Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for important factors that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from those in our forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this report is based only on information currently available to us and speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Non-U.S. GAAP Information 
We present financial information that conforms to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). We also present financial information that does not conform to U.S. GAAP, which we refer to as non-U.S. GAAP, as our management believes it is useful to investors. In addition, non-U.S. GAAP measures are used by management to review and analyze our operating performance and, along with other data, as internal measures for setting annual budgets and forecasts, assessing financial performance, providing guidance and comparing our financial performance with our peers. The non-U.S. GAAP information has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for U.S. GAAP information. It does not purport to represent any similarly titled U.S. GAAP information and is not an indicator of our performance under U.S. GAAP. Non-U.S. GAAP financial measures that we present may not be comparable with similarly titled measures used by others. Investors are cautioned against placing undue reliance on these non-U.S. GAAP measures. Further, investors are urged to review and consider carefully the adjustments made by management to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure to arrive at these non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. See Note 4, “Segments” and our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) for reconciliations of our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures to U.S. GAAP.  Information reconciling forward-looking non-U.S. GAAP measures to U.S. GAAP measures is not available without unreasonable effort.
Our management may assess our financial results both on a U.S. GAAP basis and on a non-U.S. GAAP basis. Non-U.S. GAAP financial measures provide management with additional means to understand and evaluate the core operating results and trends in our ongoing business by eliminating certain one-time expenses and/or gains (which may not occur in each period presented) and other items that management believes might otherwise make comparisons of our ongoing business with prior periods and peers more difficult, obscure trends in ongoing operations or reduce management’s ability to make useful forecasts. 
Our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures may also be considered in calculations of our performance measures set by the Organization and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors for purposes of determining incentive compensation. The non-U.S. GAAP financial metrics mentioned above exclude items that we consider as unusual or special items. We evaluate unusual or special items on an individual basis. Our evaluation of whether to exclude an unusual or special item for purposes of determining our non-U.S. GAAP financial measures considers both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including among other things (i) its nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis. 
The Company measures segment performance using Adjusted EBITDA (a non-U.S. GAAP financial measure). Adjusted EBITDA is defined as Earnings before Interest Expense, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, adjusted to exclude the impact of special items. 
2

We also present our adjusted income tax rate or provision (“Adjusted Tax Rate”). The Adjusted Tax Rate is a measure of our U.S. GAAP effective tax rate, adjusted to exclude the tax impact from the special items that are excluded from our Adjusted Net Earnings and Adjusted EPS metrics as well as expense or benefit from any special taxes or tax benefits. The Adjusted Tax Rate is an indicator of the taxes on our core business. The tax situation and effective tax rate in the specific countries where the excluded or special items occur will determine the impact (positive or negative) to the Adjusted Tax Rate. 
In our “Net Sales by Geographic Region,” “Components of Change in Net Sales by Segment” and in some of the discussions and tables that follow, we exclude the impact of foreign currency translation when presenting net sales information, which we define as “constant dollar.” Changes in net sales excluding the impact of foreign currency translation are non-U.S. GAAP financial measures. As a worldwide business, it is important that we take into account the effects of foreign currency translation when we view our results and plan our strategies. Nonetheless, we cannot control changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Consequently, when our management looks at our financial results to measure the core performance of our business, we may exclude the impact of foreign currency translation by translating our current period results at prior period foreign currency exchange rates. We also may exclude the impact of foreign currency translation when making incentive compensation determinations. As a result, our management believes that these presentations are useful internally and may be useful to investors. 
 
 
 
3

PART I 
 




Item 1.

Business 
Sealed Air Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware, is a global leader in food safety and security, facility hygiene and product protection. We serve an array of end markets including food and beverage processing, food service, retail, healthcare and industrial, and commercial and consumer applications. Our focus is on achieving quality sales growth through leveraging our geographic footprint, technological know-how and leading market positions to bring measureable, sustainable value to our customers and investors. 
Sealed Air was founded in 1960. We conduct substantially all of our business through three wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, Inc., Sealed Air Corporation (US) and Diversey, Inc. (“Diversey”). Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, when we refer to “Sealed Air,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our,” we are referring to Sealed Air Corporation and all of our subsidiaries, except where the context indicates otherwise. Please refer to Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for financial information about the Company and its subsidiaries, which is incorporated herein by reference. Also, when we cross reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise. 
We are a leading global innovator in the applications we serve and we differentiate ourselves through our: 




 

●

extensive global reach, by which we leverage our strengths across our operations in 62 countries to reach customers in 169 countries; 




 

●

approximately 23,000 employees representing industry-leading expertise in package design, sales, service and engineering, hygiene and sanitation solutions, and in food science;




 

●

leading brands, such as Cryovac® packaging technology, Diversey® and TASKI® brand cleaning and hygiene solutions, including Intellibot® floor cleaning robots, and our Bubble Wrap ® brand cushioning, Jiffy® protective mailers, Instapak® foam-in-place systems and B+ Equipment’s proprietary flagship I-Pack® and e-Cube system™; 




 

●

technology leadership with an emphasis on proprietary and patented technologies; 




 

●

total systems offering that includes specialty materials and formulations, equipment systems and services; and 




 

●

solid cash flow generation from premium solutions to meet our customers’ needs, productivity improvements, working capital management and an asset-light business model. 
In 2015, our operations generated approximately 62% of our revenue from outside the United States. We generated net sales of $7,032 million, net earnings from continuing operations of $335 million and Adjusted EBITDA of $1,174 million.  Refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations for reconciliation of Non-U.S. GAAP  total company adjusted EBITDA to U.S. GAAP net earnings from continuing operations. 
Our Competitive Strengths
Leading Market Positions. We are a leading global provider of packaging solutions for the institutional food, consumer and industrial markets.  We are also one of the leading providers of institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene solutions, products and related services. We offer the food processing and food service industries improved health and hygiene, extended shelf life and enhanced operational productivity by reducing down-time, waste generation, water use, effluent discharge, energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. We also offer business supply distributors a broad selection of premium packaging and cleaning solutions to maximize distribution efficiencies and customer reach.
Scale and Global Reach. We have approximately 23,000 employees globally and are present in 62 countries with a sales and distribution network reaching 169 countries. This scale and reach enables us to meet our customers’ needs as they expand their business on a global basis. We believe our geographic presence, extensive distribution network, and exposure to a variety of end markets help diversify our business, leverage our technology and our total systems solution model and position us to capitalize on growth opportunities in markets around the world.
Diversified Customer Base. Our customers include leading global food and beverage processors, business supply distributors, consumer products manufacturers, hotel operators, retailers, building contractors, educational institutions and health care providers. Our customer base is diverse, with no single customer or affiliated group of customers representing more than 10% of net sales in 2015.
4

Keen Focus on Innovation. We believe we are a leading innovator in material science, solution formulations, equipment systems, manufacturing technologies, and cleaning and sanitation processes, which deliver automation and efficiencies in our customers’ operations. Our solutions are differentiated by proprietary, patented formulations and material technologies, as well as by trade secrets and trademarks. We have a global network of labs with an extensive team of scientists, engineers, designers and application experts.  We invest approximately $300 million in research and development expense and capital expenditures annually. Our research and development strategy is focused on delivering innovative, sustainable solutions that enhance our customers’ operational efficiency and improve profitability.
Highly Integrated with our Customer Base. We install our equipment in our customers’ facilities and are integrated into their operational processes. We leverage our extensive installed equipment base when innovating new formulations and solutions and partner with customers to train their employees on how to effectively apply our solutions and operate our systems. We believe this provides customer “stickiness” and recurring revenue streams for our Company.
Solid Cash Flow Generation. The stability of our business, combined with the relatively low capital intensity of our operations and our solid working capital management, supports our ability to generate cash flow. We believe we are well positioned to benefit from attractive long-term global growth trends such as an increasing emphasis on food safety and security, health and hygiene, and sustainability, cost competitiveness and performance, as well as our own geographic diversity, to drive additional cash flow.
Our Business Strategies 
We seek to enhance our position as a leading global provider of innovative packaging and hygiene solutions that our customers use to improve performance, cost competitiveness and sustainability within their operations by focusing on six strategic priorities: 
Maintaining and extending our technological leadership, expertise and our sustainability value proposition. 
We continue to focus on becoming a knowledge-based, market-driven company centered on offering innovative solutions that enable our customers to meet their sustainability needs while growing their business, reducing costs and mitigating risk, including enhancing top line growth and conserving energy, water and other resources while reducing waste in their operations. Our product solution goals align with sustainable sourcing principles and new product development innovation processes, while providing greater transparency of our supply chain.  We enhance our ability to position our product features and benefits using a sustainability lens and leverage these product strengths to differentiate our solutions in the market, with a view to this approach becoming the new business standard in the future. 
Better aligning ourselves with the customers, markets and global mega-trends. 
As part of our ongoing business portfolio review, we are committed to identifying those customers and markets that offer us the best opportunity to deliver solutions and services that are sufficiently differentiated and valued in the marketplace. In addition, we are committed to aligning our business with key global mega-trends, including e-commerce, infection control and the global movement of food. In particular, we will leverage our strengths to enhance our position with our food and beverage customers and, by doing so, we improve access to a more secure food supply chain.  Our priorities are embodied in our four commitments: enhancing food security, creating healthy and clean environments, conserving natural resources, and driving livelihood programs in the communities where we do business. 
Accelerating our penetration and rate of growth in developing regions. 
With an international focus and extensive geographic footprint aligned to our growth opportunities, we will combine our local market knowledge with our broad portfolio and strengths in innovation and customer service to grow in developing regions. Urbanization, global trade, increased protein consumption and the ongoing conversion to safer and hygienically packaged foods and goods are key secular trends that underpin our confidence in our ability to grow rapidly in these parts of the world. 
Focusing on cash flow generation and improved return on assets. 
We are focused on generating substantial operating cash flow from our existing business so that we can continue to invest in new products and technologies, deleverage our balance sheet, continue to pay dividends, and support growth in our share price. We believe our ongoing process of critically analyzing our business portfolio and reallocating technical, human, and capital resources to the most promising market sectors from those sectors that are less strategic or have a lower level of financial performance will enhance our free cash flow generation performance and result in a higher return on assets, thus improving shareholder value. 
5

Optimizing our cost base and operations to maximize efficiency and profitability. 
The size and scale of our global operations affords us a continuing opportunity to derive greater supply chain efficiencies by leveraging our purchasing power, optimizing our manufacturing and logistics footprint, improving our internal operations and processes, and reducing complexity and cost. In addition to reducing the cost of our supply chain operations, we continue to focus on adapting the cost structure of our customer facing and back-office operations to the appropriate level required to adequately support our external customer base and run the business effectively. We also have sustainability goals to reduce the environmental impact of our global operations and deliver operational excellence while upholding the highest ethical standards in our business practices. Every year our facilities around the world develop improvement plans to meet environmental impact and cost-reduction goals. These align with corporate goals for energy, greenhouse gases, water, waste, efficiency targets and cost savings. In turn, the company’s impact on the environment is reduced while the ability to generate profits is enhanced. 
Developing our people. 
We recognize that a core strength of our business is our people. Therefore, we will continue to invest in the development of key skills in our diverse workforce while improving our ability to attract and retain new employees who are motivated by our company vision and the positive impact they can have on the world. 
Segments 
We report our segment information in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, “Segment Reporting,” (“FASB ASC Topic 280”). The Company’s segment reporting structure consists of three reportable segments and an “Other” category and is as follows: 




 

●

Food Care; 




 

●

Diversey Care; 




 

●

Product Care; and 




 

●

Other (includes Corporate, Medical Applications and New Ventures businesses) 
See Note 4, “Segments” for further information. 
Descriptions of the Reportable Segments and Other 
Food Care Segment 
The Food Care division focuses on providing processors, retailers and food service operators a broad range of integrated system solutions that improve the management of contamination risk and facility hygiene during the food and beverage production process, extend product shelf life through packaging technologies, and improve merchandising, ease-of-use, and back-of-house preparation processes. Our systems are designed to be turn-key and reduce customers’ total operating costs through improved operational efficiencies and reduced food waste, as well as lower water and energy use. As a result, processors are able to produce and deliver their products more cost-effectively, safely, efficiently, and with greater confidence through their supply chain with a trusted partner. 
The business largely serves perishable food and beverage processors, predominately in fresh red meat, smoked and processed meats, beverages, poultry and dairy (solids and liquids) markets worldwide, and maintains a leading position in the applications it targets. Solutions are marketed under the Cryovac ® and Diversey® trademarks and under sub-brands such as Cryovac Grip & Tear ®, Cryovac® Darfresh®, Cryovac Mirabella ®, Simple Steps ®, Secure Check ®, Enduro Power™ and Optidure™. 
Our solutions incorporate equipment systems that are frequently integrated into customers’ operations, consumables such as advanced flexible films, absorbent materials and trays, and a variety of pre- and post-sale services. Packaging equipment systems can incorporate various options for loading, filling and dispensing, and will also accommodate certain retort and aseptic processing conditions. Equipment solutions supported include vacuum shrink bag systems, Cryovac ®,  Flow-Vac ® (a U.S. registered trademark of Ulma Packaging Technological Center) wrapping/vacuuming packaging systems, thermoforming, skin, tray/lid and vertical pouch packaging systems. Services include graphic design, printing, training, field quality assurance and remote diagnostics. Facility hygiene solutions include clean-in-place and open plant systems that integrate cleaning chemicals, lubricants, floor care equipment and cleaning and dispensing tools. Also offered are a wide range of value-added services such as application and employee training and auditing of hygiene, water and energy management to improve the operational efficiency of customers’ processes and their cleaning efficacy. 
6

Food Care focuses on providing comprehensive systems which protect our customers’ products while adding value through increasing operational efficiency and reducing waste throughout the entire food and beverage supply chain. Food Care will partner with customers to provide integrated packaging and hygiene solutions that will consistently deliver food safety, shelf life extension, total cost optimization and innovative packaging formats which will enable our customers to enhance their brands in the marketplace. 
Diversey Care Segment 
Diversey Care solutions aim to improve operational efficiency and mitigate risk by improving our customers’ cleaning processes and methods and reducing the overall environmental footprint of commercial and industrial facilities. The Diversey Care division represents the broad offering of Diversey®-branded total integrated system solutions for facility hygiene, food safety and security, and infection control to customers worldwide. The division is focused on serving five key institutional and industrial sectors globally, which include: food service operators, hospitality establishments and building service contractors, food retail outlets, and healthcare facilities. 
Diversey Care integrates cleaning chemicals, floor care machines, cleaning tools and equipment, and a wide range of value-added services based on extensive expertise, including application and employee training, auditing of hygiene and appearance, food safety services and water and energy management. These solutions address kitchen hygiene, floor care, housekeeping and restroom care, and professional laundry. The product range of Diversey-branded solutions includes fully integrated lines of products and dispensing systems for hard surface cleaning, disinfecting and sanitizing, hand washing, deodorizing, mechanical and manual ware washing, hard surface and carpeted floor cleaning systems, cleaning tools and utensils, and fabric care for professional laundry applications comprising detergents, stain removers, bleaches and a broad range of dispensing equipment for process control and management information systems. Floor care machines are commercialized under the well-established Taski ® brand, including Intellibot® floor cleaning robots. 
Diversey Care is focused on leveraging its extensive expertise and integrated solutions to expand its global market presence with regional and multinational customers across its five targeted sectors.  Diversey Care retains a solid market position in developed economies where increased urbanization and greater sanitation and hygiene requirements provide meaningful growth opportunities. 
Product Care Segment 
Sealed Air’s Product Care division resolves the demanding protective and specialty packaging challenges through tailored, practical solutions.  Across a wide range of industries, Product Care applies its expertise globally to maximize performance and efficiency while also reducing the amount of energy and raw materials needed to get valuable assets through the distribution chain safely and securely.
This division provides customers with a versatile range of Product Care solutions to meet cushioning, void fill, positioning/block-and-bracing, surface protection, retail display, containment and dunnage needs. Solutions are marketed under industry-leading brands that include Bubble Wrap ® and AirCap ® air cellular packaging, Cryovac ® performance shrink films, Shanklin ® FloWrap shrink packaging systems, Instapak ® polyurethane foam packaging systems, Jiffy ®mailers, and Korrvu ® suspension and retention packaging and sustainable offers in PakNatural ® Loose fill and RestoreÒ Mushroom ® packaging.  The Company’s acquisition of B+ Equipment includes the flagship I-Pack® system and newly introduced e-Cube™ system, both of which provide intelligent, high-velocity fulfillment. Solutions are sold globally and supported by a network of 29 American Society for Testing and Materials International (“ASTM”) approved Product Care design and testing centers, and one of the industry’s largest sales and service teams.
Today, Product Care solutions are largely sold through business supply distribution that sells to business/industrial end-users representing over 400 SIC codes. Additionally, solutions are sold directly to fabricators, OEMs/contract manufacturers, third party logistics partners, e-commerce/fulfillment operations, and at retail centers, where Product Care offers select products for consumer use on a global basis.
Product Care is focused on sustainability, growth in developing regions, advancements in material science, automation and user ease-of-use interface and features.
Other 
Other includes Corporate and our Medical Applications and New Ventures businesses, which we may refer to from time to time as “Other.” Other includes certain costs that are not allocated to the reportable segments, primarily consisting of unallocated corporate overhead costs, including administrative functions and cost recovery variances not allocated to the reportable segments from global functional expenses. 
7

We also focus on growth by utilizing our technologies in new market segments. 
Medical Applications 
The goal of our Medical Applications business is to provide solutions offering superior protection and reliability to the medical, pharmaceutical and medical device industries. We sell medical applications products directly to medical device manufacturers and pharmaceutical companies and to the contract packaging firms that supply them. Medical Applications is focused on growth in the medical device and pharmaceutical solutions packaging markets. Our core product lines include customer designed flexible packaging materials for medical and drug delivery devices, specialty component films for ostomy and colostomy bags and PVC free film to package pharmaceutical solutions. 
New Ventures 
Our New Ventures business includes several development and innovative programs that are focused on new technologies and opportunities that leverage our capabilities into core and non-core markets. These efforts include market focused exploration of both product and knowledge-based solutions. 
Global Operations 
We operate through our subsidiaries and have a presence in the United States and the 61 other countries listed below, enabling us to distribute our products to our customers in 169 countries. 
 




Argentina

  

Denmark

  

Ireland

 

New Zealand

 

Singapore

 

Ukraine



Australia

  

Dominican Republic

  

Israel

  

Nigeria

  

Slovakia

  

United Arab Emirates



Austria

  

Egypt

  

Italy

  

Norway

  

Slovenia

  

United Kingdom



Belgium

  

Finland

  

Jamaica

  

Pakistan

  

South Africa

  

Uruguay



Brazil

  

France

  

Japan

  

Peru

  

South Korea

  

Venezuela



Canada

  

Germany

  

Kenya

  

Philippines

  

Spain

  

Vietnam



Chile

  

Greece

  

Luxembourg

  

Poland

  

Sweden

  

 



China

  

Guatemala

  

Malaysia

  

Portugal

  

Switzerland

  

 



Colombia

  

Hungary

  

Mexico

  

Romania

  

Taiwan

  

 



Costa Rica

  

India

  

Morocco

  

Russia

  

Thailand

  

 



Czech Republic

  

Indonesia

  

Netherlands

  

Saudi Arabia

  

Turkey

  

 


 
In maintaining our foreign operations, we face risks inherent in these operations, such as currency fluctuations, inflation and political instability. Information on currency exchange risk appears in Part II, Item 7A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Other risks attendant to our foreign operations are set forth in Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Information on the impact of currency exchange on our Consolidated Financial Statements appears in Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Financial information showing net sales and total long-lived assets by geographic region for each of the three years ended December 31, 2015 appears in Note 4, “Segments,” which information is incorporated herein by reference. We maintain programs to comply with the various laws, rules and regulations related to the protection of the environment that we may be subject to in the many countries in which we operate. See Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Environmental Matters.” 
Employees 
As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 23,000 employees worldwide. Approximately 6,500 of these employees were in the U.S., with approximately 150 of these employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the approximately 16,500 employees who were outside the U.S., approximately 9,800 were covered by collective bargaining agreements. Collective bargaining agreements related to 11% of our employees, primarily outside the U.S., will expire and we will be engaged in negotiations to attain new agreements.  Many of the covered employees are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is customary in the jurisdictions in which they are employed. We believe that our employee relations are satisfactory. 
8

Marketing, Distribution and Customers 
At December 31, 2015, we employed approximately 7,100 sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world who sell and market our products to and through a large number of distributors, fabricators, converters, e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms as well as directly to end-users such as food processors, foodservice businesses, supermarket retailers, lodging, retail, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare facilities, medical device manufacturers, and other manufacturers. 
To support our Food Care and New Ventures customers, we operate three Packforum® innovation and learning centers that are located in the U.S., France, and China. At Packforum ® Centers, we assist customers in identifying the appropriate packaging materials and systems to meet their needs. We also offer ideation services, educational seminars, employee training and customized graphic design services to our customers. 
To assist our marketing efforts for our Product Care products and to provide specialized customer services, we operate 29 industrial Package Design Centers (PDCs) worldwide within our facilities. These PDCs are staffed with professional packaging engineers and outfitted with drop-testing and other equipment used to develop, test and validate cost-effective package designs to meet each Product Care customer’s needs. 
To support our equipment systems and the marketing of our totals systems solutions, we provide field technical services to our customers worldwide. These services include system installation, integration and monitoring systems, repair and upgrade, operator training in the efficient use of our systems, qualification of various consumable and system combinations, and equipment layout and design. 
Our Food Care applications are largely sold direct, while most of our Product Care products and a portion of our Diversey Care products and solutions are sold through business supply distributors. 
We have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of our products. In 2015, no customer or affiliated group of customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales. 
Seasonality 
Historically, net sales in our Food Care segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events.  Net sales in our Product Care segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season.  Net sales in our Diversey Care segment have tended to be higher in the second quarter due to higher occupancy rates in European lodging.  On a consolidated basis, there is little seasonality in the business, with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. Our consolidated net earnings typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality. Cash flow from operations has tended to be lower in the first quarter and higher in the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments. 
Other factors may outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other costs, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and restructuring and other non-recurring charges. 
Competition 
Competition for most of our packaging products is based primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and price. There are also other companies producing competing products that are well-established. Since competition is also based upon innovations in packaging technology, we maintain ongoing research and development programs to enable us to maintain technological leadership. We invest approximately double the industry average on research and development as a percentage of net sales per year as compared with our packaging peers. 
There are other manufacturers of Food Care products, some of which are companies offering similar products that operate across regions and others that operate in a single region or single country. Competing manufacturers produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic, metals and other materials. We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of (i) flexible food packaging materials and related systems in the principal geographic areas in which we offer those products, (ii) barrier trays for case-ready meat products in the principal geographic areas in which we offers those trays, and (iii) absorbent pads for food products to supermarkets and to meat and poultry processors in the U.S. 
9

Our Food Care hygiene solutions and Diversey Care solutions face a wide spectrum of competitors across each product category. Competition is both global and regional in scope and includes numerous small, local competitors with limited product portfolios and geographic reach. We compete globally on premium product offerings and application expertise, innovative product and dispensing equipment offerings, value-added solution delivery, and strong customer service and support. We differentiate our offerings from competitors by becoming the preferred partner to our customers, and by providing innovative, industry-leading products to make their facilities safer and healthier for both maintenance staff and building occupants. We believe our integrated solutions approach, which includes the supply of machines, tools, chemicals, processes and training to customers to drive productivity improvements, reduce total cost of ownership, reduce risk of food safety events and improve infection control to reduce healthcare acquired infections, is a unique competitive strength. Additionally, the quality, ease of use and environmental profile of our products are unique and have helped support long-standing, profitable relationships with many top customers. 
Our Product Care products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other packaging materials that customers use to provide protection against damage to their products during shipment and storage. Among the competitive materials are various forms of paper packaging products, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, strapping, envelopes, reinforced bags, boxes and other containers, and various corrugated materials, as well as various types of molded foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock mounts, wood blocking and bracing systems, and a portfolio of automated packaging and fulfillment systems. We believe that we are one of the leading suppliers of air cellular cushioning materials containing a barrier layer, inflatable packaging, suspension and retention packaging, shrink films for industrial and commercial applications, protective mailers, polyethylene foam and polyurethane foam packaging systems in the principal geographic areas in which we sell these products.  Additionally, due to internal technology development investments and due to the acquisition of B+ Equipment in 2015, we are a leader in automated void reduction systems technology and automated mailer technology. 
Competition for most of our Medical Applications products is based primarily on performance characteristics, service and price. 
Raw Materials and Purchasing 
Suppliers provide raw materials, packaging components, contract manufactured goods, equipment and other direct materials, such as inks, films and paper.  Our principal raw materials are polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins, as well as chemicals such as caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, chelates, fragrances, paper and wood pulp products. Raw materials represent approximately one-third of our consolidated cost of sales. We also purchase corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films and Bubble Wrap ® brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, bag-in-the-box containers, bottles, drums, pails, totes, aerosol cans, caps, triggers, valves, and blowing agents used in the expansion of foam packaging products. In addition, we offer a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some of which we manufacture or have manufactured to our specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we purchase from suppliers. Equipment and accessories include industrial and food packaging equipment, dilution-control warewashing and laundry equipment, floor care machines and items used in the maintenance of a facility such as air care dispensers, floor care applicators, microfiber mops and cloths, buckets, carts and other cleaning tools and utensils. 
The vast majority of the raw materials required for the manufacture of our products and all components related to our equipment and accessories generally have been readily available on the open market, in most cases are available from several suppliers and are available in amounts sufficient to meet our manufacturing requirements. However, we have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials. Due to by-product/co-product chemical relationships to the automotive and housing markets, several materials may become difficult to source. These factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers. We purchase some materials used in our packaging products from materials recycled in our manufacturing operations or obtained through participation in recycling programs. Although we purchase some raw materials under long-term supply arrangements with third parties, these arrangements follow market forces and are in line with our overall global purchasing strategy, which seeks to balance the cost of acquisition and availability of supply. 
We have a centralized supply chain organization, which includes centralized management of purchasing and logistic activities. Our objective is to leverage our global scale to achieve purchasing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered cost across all our regions. We do this while adhering to strategic performance metrics and stringent purchasing practices. 
10

Research and Development Activities 
We maintain a continuing effort to develop new products and improve our existing products and processes, including developing new packaging, chemical formulations and equipment, and related applications, using our intellectual property. From time to time, we also license or acquire technology developed by others. Our research and development projects rely on our technical capabilities in the areas of food science, materials science, chemistry and chemical engineering, package design and equipment engineering. Our research and development expense was $129 million in 2015, $135 million in 2014 and $133 million in 2013.
Our research and development activities are focused on end-use application. As a result, we operate: 




 

●

two food science laboratories located in the U.S. and Italy; 




 

●

Five research and development laboratories focused on the development of cleaning and sanitation formulations, which are located in the U.S., Germany, the Netherlands, India and Brazil; and 




 

●

Nine equipment design centers in the U.S., Germany, Switzerland, Italy and the Netherlands that focus on equipment and parts design and innovation to support the development of comprehensive systems solutions. 
Patents and Trademarks 
We are the owner or licensee of an aggregate of over 4,000 U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications, as well as an aggregate of over 10,600 United States and foreign trademark registrations and trademark applications that relate to many of our products, manufacturing processes and equipment. We believe that our patents and trademarks collectively provide a competitive advantage. We file annually an average of 200 U.S. and foreign patent applications and 400 U.S. and foreign trademark applications. None of our reportable segments is dependent upon any single patent or trademark alone. Rather, we believe that our success depends primarily on our sales and service, marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on our ongoing research and development efforts. We believe that the expiration or unenforceability of any of our patents, applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be material to our business or consolidated financial condition. 
Environmental, Health and Safety Matters 
As a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the countries, jurisdictions and localities in which we operate. These cover: the safe storage and use of raw materials and production chemicals; the release of materials into the environment; standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. We review environmental, health and safety laws and regulations pertaining to our operations and believe that compliance with current environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures or consolidated financial condition. 
In some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are sold or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that seek to regulate, among other things, minimum levels of recycled or reprocessed content and, more generally, the sale or disposal of packaging materials. We maintain programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations and to monitor their evolution. Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regulate some of our products and require us to register certain products and comply with specified requirements. In the U.S., we must register our sanitizing and disinfecting products with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). We are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that regulate products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and processed foods. In the U.S., these requirements are generally administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). To date, the cost of complying with product registration requirements and FDA compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 
Our emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance provides us with risk reduction opportunities and cost savings through asset protection and protection of employees. 
Available Information 
Our Internet address is www.sealedair.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 
 
 
11





Item 1A.

Risk Factors 
Introduction 
The risks described below should be carefully considered before making an investment decision. These are the most significant risk factors, but they are not the only risk factors that should be considered in making an investment decision. This Form 10-K also contains and may incorporate by reference forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See the “Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our securities could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may lose all or part of their investment. 
Uncertain global economic conditions have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 
Uncertain global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product price/mix, or lower profit margins. For example, global economic downturns have adversely impacted some of our end-users and customers, such as food processors, distributors, supermarket retailers, hotels, restaurants, retail establishments, other retailers, business service contractors and e-commerce and mail order fulfillment firms, and other end-users that are particularly sensitive to business and consumer spending. 
During economic downturns or recessions, there can be a heightened competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling prices as our customers may reduce their volume of purchases from us. If we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations, profitability and cash flows. 
Also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds for operations and capital expenditures. This could negatively impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. This also could result in reduced or delayed collections of outstanding accounts receivable. 
The global nature of our operations exposes us to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 
We operate in 62 countries, and our products are distributed in those countries as well as in other parts of the world. A large portion of our manufacturing operations are located outside of the U.S. and a majority of our net sales are generated outside of the U.S.   These operations, particularly in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not be present or as significant for our U.S. operations. Economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which we operate, including developing regions, could result in the disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our operations in those areas. 
Risks inherent in our international operations include: 




 

●

foreign currency exchange controls and tax rates; 




 

●

foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, including devaluations; 




 

●

the potential for changes in regional and local economic conditions, including local inflationary pressures; 




 

●

restrictive governmental actions such as those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures; 




 

●

changes in laws and regulations, including the laws and policies of the U.S. affecting trade and foreign investment; 




 

●

the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; 




 

●

variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights; 




 

●

more expansive legal rights of foreign unions or works councils; 




 

●

changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; 




 

●

import and export delays caused, for example, by an extended strike at the port of entry, could cause a delay in our supply chain operations;




 

●

social plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain restructuring actions; 
12





 

●

the potential for nationalization of enterprises or facilities; and 




 

●

unsettled political conditions and possible terrorist attacks against U.S. or other interests. 
In addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies and tax costs in repatriating funds from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. 
These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our international operations and, consequently, on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Fluctuations between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Approximately 62% of our net sales in 2015 were generated outside the United States. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our Consolidated Financial Statements.  As a result, the Company is exposed to currency fluctuations both in receiving cash from its international operations and in translating its financial results back to U.S. dollars.  During periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars.  The Company cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on its future operating results. As exchange rates vary, the Company's results of operations and profitability may be harmed.  While we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. See Note 12, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities.” Such hedging activities may be ineffective or may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from foreign currency variations. The gains or losses associated with hedging activities may harm the Company's results of operations.
In all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. These laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the U.S. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into U.S. dollars. 
We have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in Venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP. See Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards — Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuation— Venezuela.” 
Political and economic instability and risk of government actions affecting our business and our customers or suppliers may adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows.
We are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries or regions in which we or our customers or suppliers operate including: civil unrest, acts of terrorism, sabotage, epidemics, force majeure, war or other armed conflict and related government actions, including sanctions/embargoes, the deprivation of contract rights, the inability to obtain or retain licenses required by us to operate our plants or import or export our goods or raw materials, the expropriation or nationalization of our assets, and restrictions on travel, payments or the movement of funds. In particular, if additional restrictions on trade with Russia were adopted by the European Union or the U.S., and were applicable to our products, we could lose sales and experience lower growth rates in the future.​
We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. 
Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. 
If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to affect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities, the indentures that govern our senior notes and the agreements covering our accounts receivable securitization programs restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. 
13

In addition, we conduct a substantial portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, certain of which are not guarantors of our indebtedness. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the indenture governing certain of our senior notes, these notes and the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. 
Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. 
If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, the lenders under the senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to loan money, the lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 
The terms of our credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. 
The indentures governing our senior notes and the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization programs contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: 




 

●

incur additional indebtedness; 




 

●

pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; 




 

●

prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; 




 

●

make loans and investments; 




 

●

sell assets; 




 

●

incur liens; 




 

●

enter into transactions with affiliates; 




 

●

alter the businesses we conduct; 




 

●

enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; and 




 

●

consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. 
In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our senior credit facilities require us to maintain a specified net leverage ratio. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. 
A breach of the covenants under the indenture governing our senior notes or under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities would permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under those facilities. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our senior secured credit facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. As a result of these restrictions, we may be: 




 

●

limited in how we conduct our business; 




 

●

unable to respond to changing market conditions; 
14





 

●

unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns or to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due; or 




 

●

unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. 
In addition, amounts available under our accounts receivable securitization programs can be impacted by a number of factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings, accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our customers and our receivables collection experience. 
Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. 
Borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. As of December 31, 2015, we had $1.264 billion of borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities at variable interest rates. A 1/8% increase or decrease in the assumed interest rates on the senior secured credit facilities would result in a $1.6 million increase or a $1.6 million decrease in annual interest expense. In the future, we may enter into interest rate swaps that involve the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments in order to reduce interest rate volatility. However, we may not maintain interest rate swaps with respect to all of our variable rate indebtedness, and any swaps we enter into may not fully mitigate our interest rate risk. 
Raw material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results of operations, including our profit margins. 
We use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of our products. The prices for these raw materials are cyclical, and increases in market demand or fluctuations in the global trade for petrochemical- based raw materials and energy could increase our costs. In addition, the prices of many of the other key raw materials used in our businesses, such as caustic soda, solvents, waxes, phosphates, surfactants, polymers and resins, chelates and fragrances, are cyclical based on numerous supply and demand factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to minimize the effects of increased raw material costs through sourcing, pricing or other actions, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We also have some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials in the future. These factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and harm relations with our customers and which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Unfavorable consumer responses to price increases could have a material adverse impact on our sales and earnings. 
From time to time, and especially in periods of rising raw material costs, we increase the prices of our products. Significant price increases could impact our earnings depending on, among other factors, the pricing by competitors of similar products and the response by the customers to higher prices. Such price increases may result in lower volume of sales and a subsequent decrease in gross margin and adversely impact earnings. 
The full realization of our deferred tax assets may be affected by a number of factors, including our earnings in the U.S. 
We have deferred tax assets including state and foreign net operating loss carry forwards, foreign tax credits, accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, employee benefit items and other items. We have established valuation allowances to reduce the deferred tax assets to an amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Our ability to utilize the deferred tax assets depends in part upon our ability to generate future taxable income within each respective jurisdiction during the periods in which these temporary differences reverse or our ability to carryback any losses created by the deduction of these temporary differences. We expect to realize the assets over an extended period. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. and/or certain foreign jurisdictions, or if there is a significant change in the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, we could be required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rate would increase if we were required to increase our valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets.
15

Our most significant deferred tax asset is our foreign tax credit carryforwards. The benefit from the amount carried forward may depend upon many factors, including the jurisdictional mix of our anticipated future earnings. A reduction in our anticipated U.S. earnings, or an unfavorable mix of domestic versus foreign-sourced U.S earnings may change our foreign tax credit position which could result in a significant increase in our effective tax rate and could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the periods in which any such condition occurs. In addition, changes in statutory tax rates or other legislation or regulation may change our deferred tax assets or liability balances, with either favorable or unfavorable impacts on our effective tax rate.
We may not achieve all of the expected benefits from our restructuring programs.
We have implemented a number of restructuring programs in the last few years, including our Fusion Program, Earnings Quality Improvement Program (EQIP) and Integration and Optimization Program (IOP). These programs include various cost savings and reorganization initiatives, including the relocation of our corporate headquarters to Charlotte, North Carolina, the consolidation of certain facilities and the reduction of headcount. We have made certain assumptions in estimating the anticipated savings we expect to achieve under such programs, which include the estimated savings from the elimination of certain headcount and the consolidation of facilities. These assumptions may turn out to be incorrect due to a variety of factors. In addition, our ability to realize the expected benefits from these programs is subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unsuccessful in implementing these programs or if we do not achieve our expected results, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected or our business operations could be disrupted.
The effects of animal and food-related health issues, such as Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea or “PED”, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, also known as “mad cow” disease, foot-and-mouth disease, avian influenza or “bird-flu”, as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to decreased revenues. 
We manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other products. Various health issues affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. In recent years, occasional cases of PED and “mad cow” disease have been confirmed and incidents of bird-flu have surfaced in various countries. Outbreaks of animal diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products, leading to decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise intended for food supply. Also, consumers may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems with certain types of food. These factors may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Risks related to implementation of our new global enterprise resource planning system.
We are currently engaged in a multi-year process of conforming the majority of our operations onto one global enterprise resource planning system (“ERP”).  The ERP is designed to improve the efficiency of our supply chain and financial transaction processes, accurately maintain our books and records, and provide information important to the operation of the business to our management team. The ERP will continue to require significant investment of human and financial resources, and we may experience significant delays, increased costs and other difficulties as a result. Any significant disruption or deficiency in the design and implementation of the ERP could adversely affect our ability to fulfill and invoice customer orders, apply cash receipts, place purchase orders with suppliers, and make cash disbursements, and could negatively impact data processing and electronic communications among business locations, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. We also face the challenge of supporting our older systems and implementing necessary upgrades to those systems while we implement the new ERP system. While we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, significant implementation issues may arise.
16

Although the Settlement agreement (as defined in Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies”) has been implemented and we have been released from the various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with Grace (as defined below), if the courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the Plan (as defined below) and the Settlement agreement with respect to any claims and if Grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. We are also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in Canada arising from Grace’s activities in Canada prior to the 1998 transaction. 
On March 31, 1998, Sealed Air completed a multi-step transaction (the “Cryovac transaction”) involving W.R. Grace & Co. (“Grace”) which brought the Cryovac packaging business and the former Sealed Air’s business under the common ownership of the Company. As part of that transaction, Grace and its subsidiaries retained all liabilities arising out of their operations before the Cryovac transaction (including asbestos-related liabilities), other than liabilities relating to Cryovac’s operations, and agreed to indemnify the Company with respect to such retained liabilities. Since the beginning of 2000, we have been served with a number of lawsuits alleging that, as a result of the Cryovac transaction, we are responsible for alleged asbestos liabilities of Grace and its subsidiaries. While they vary, these suits all appear to allege that the transfer of the Cryovac business was a fraudulent transfer or gave rise to successor liability. On April 2, 2001, Grace and a number of its subsidiaries filed petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware (the “Bankruptcy Court”). In connection with Grace’s Chapter 11 case, the Bankruptcy Court issued orders dated May 3, 2001 and January 22, 2002, staying all asbestos actions against the Company (the “Preliminary Injunction”). However, the official committees appointed to represent asbestos claimants in Grace’s Chapter 11 case (the “Committees”) received the court’s permission to pursue fraudulent transfer and other claims against the Company and its subsidiary Cryovac, Inc. based upon the Cryovac transaction. This proceeding was brought in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware (the “District Court”) (Adv. No. 02-02210). 
On November 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle with the Committees to resolve all current and future asbestos-related claims made against us and our affiliates in connection with the Cryovac transaction. The Settlement agreement provided for the resolution of the fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by Fresenius Medical Care Holdings, Inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the Cryovac transaction. The parties to the agreement in principle signed the definitive Settlement agreement as of November 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. On June 27, 2005, the Bankruptcy Court signed an order approving the Settlement agreement. Although Grace is not a party to the Settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, Grace is directed to comply with the Settlement agreement subject to limited exceptions. 
On September 19, 2008, Grace, the Official Committee of Asbestos Personal Injury Claimants, the Asbestos PI Future Claimants’ Representative, and the Official Committee of Equity Security Holders filed, as co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended from time to time, the “Plan”) and several exhibits and associated documents, including a disclosure statement, with the Bankruptcy Court. The Plan provides for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under Section 524(g) of the United States Bankruptcy Code to which present and future asbestos-related personal injury and property damage claims are channeled. The Plan incorporates the Settlement agreement, including our payment of amounts contemplated by the Settlement agreement and the releases and injunctions contemplated by the Settlement agreement. 
On February 3, 2014 (the “Effective Date”), the Plan implementing the Settlement agreement became effective with Grace emerging from bankruptcy. In accordance with the Plan and the Settlement agreement, on the Effective Date, Cryovac, Inc. made aggregate cash payments in the amount of $929.7 million to the WRG Asbestos PI Trust (the “PI Trust”) and the WRG Asbestos PD Trust (the “PD Trust”) and transferred 18 million shares of Sealed Air common stock to the PI Trust, in each case reflecting adjustments made in accordance with the Settlement agreement. Under the Plan, the Preliminary Injunction remained in place through the Effective Date and, on the Effective Date, the Plan and Settlement agreement injunctions and releases with respect to asbestos claims and certain other claims became effective. Following the Effective Date, the Bankruptcy Court issued an order dismissing the proceedings pursuant to which the Preliminary Injunction was issued. The Plan further provides for the channeling of existing and future asbestos claims to the PI Trust or the PD Trust, as applicable. In addition, under the Plan and the Settlement agreement, Grace is required to indemnify us with respect to asbestos and certain other liabilities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if any courts were to refuse to enforce the injunctions or releases contained in the Plan and the Settlement agreement with respect to any claims, and if, in addition, Grace were unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us for such claims, then we could be required to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 
17

Since November 2004, the Company and specified subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a number of putative class actions, brought in Canada as a result of Grace’s alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos containing products in Canada prior to the Cryovac transaction in 1998. Grace has agreed to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. A global settlement of these Canadian claims to be funded by Grace has been approved by the Canadian court, and the Plan provides for payment of these claims. We do not have any positive obligations under the Canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release of claims. The release in favor of the Grace parties (including us) became operative upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization in Grace’s United States Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding. As filed, the Plan contemplates that the claims released under the Canadian settlement will be subject to injunctions under Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code. As indicated above, the Bankruptcy Court entered the Bankruptcy Court Confirmation Order on January 31, 2011 and the Clarifying Order on February 15, 2011 and the District Court entered the Original District Court Confirmation Order on January 30, 2012 and the Amended District Court Confirmation Order on June 11, 2012. The Canadian Court issued an Order on April 8, 2011 recognizing and giving full effect to the Bankruptcy Court’s Confirmation Order in all provinces and territories of Canada in accordance with the Bankruptcy Court Confirmation Order’s terms. As described above, the Plan became effective on February 3, 2014.  In accordance with an order of the Canadian court, on the Effective Date the actions became permanently stayed until they are amended to remove the Grace parties as named defendants. Two actions were dismissed by the Manitoba court as against the Grace parties on February 19, 2014.  The remaining actions were either dismissed or discontinued with prejudice by the Canadian courts as against the Grace parties in May and June 2015, but for two actions in the Province of Quebec, for which motions to dismiss are pending.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, and although we believe the possibility to be remote, if the Canadian courts refuse to enforce the final plan of reorganization in the Canadian courts, and if in addition Grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required to pay damages, which we cannot estimate at this time. For further information concerning these matters, see Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies.”
Demand for our products could be adversely affected by changes in consumer preferences. 
Our sales depend heavily on the volumes of sales by our customers in the food processing and food service industries. Consumer preferences for food and packaging formats of prepackaged food can influence our sales, as can consumer preferences for fresh and unpackaged foods. Changes in consumer behavior, including changes in consumer preferences driven by various health-related concerns and perceptions, could negatively impact demand for our products. 
The consolidation of customers may adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Customers in the food service, food and beverage processing, building care, lodging, industrial distribution and healthcare sectors have been consolidating in recent years, and we believe this trend may continue. Such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
We experience competition in the markets for our products and services and in the geographic areas in which we operate. 
Our packaging products compete with similar products made by other manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or products. We compete on the basis of performance characteristics of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in technology. A number of competing domestic and foreign companies are well-established. 
The market for our hygiene products is highly competitive. Our hygiene products businesses face significant competition from global, national, regional and local companies within some or all of our product lines in each sector that we serve. Barriers to entry and expansion in the institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene industry are low. 
Our inability to maintain a competitive advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes for our products. Additionally, we may not successfully implement our pricing actions. These factors may have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Concerns about greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions and climate change and the resulting governmental and market responses to these issues could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been enacted and proposed in response to concerns about GHG emissions and climate change. We are a manufacturing entity that utilizes petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our products, including plastic packaging materials. Increased environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and energy costs. We could also incur additional compliance costs for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining permits. It is also possible that certain materials might cease to be permitted to be used in our processes. 
18

Disruption and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect our external liquidity sources. 
Our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations and amounts available under our lines of credit, including our senior secured credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization programs. We may be unable to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, our accounts receivable securitization programs and our senior secured credit facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 
Additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect financial institutions with which we have relationships and could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully our committed borrowing facilities. For example, a lender under the senior secured credit facilities may be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may not be able to replace such lender. 
Strengthening of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Approximately 62% of our net sales in 2015 were generated outside the United States. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our Consolidated Financial Statements. During periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. 
Also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as our products are sold, expenses are more concentrated in the U.S. than sales, so that in a time of strengthening of the U.S. dollar, our profit margins could be reduced. While we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely from foreign currency effects and exposes us to counterparty credit risk for non-performance. See Note 12, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities.” 
We have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to the currency devaluations in Venezuela and its designation as a highly inflationary economy under U.S. GAAP. See Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Recently Issued Accounting Standards — Impact of Inflation and Currency Fluctuation— Venezuela.” 
In all jurisdictions in which we operate, we are also subject to laws and regulations that govern foreign investment, foreign trade and currency exchange transactions. These laws and regulations may limit our ability to repatriate cash as dividends or otherwise to the U.S. and may limit our ability to convert foreign currency cash flows into U.S. dollars. 
New and stricter legislation and regulations may affect our business and consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 
Increased legislative and regulatory activity and burdens, and a more stringent manner in which they are applied (particularly in the U.S.), could significantly impact our business and the economy as a whole. This includes, among other things, the possible taxation under U.S. law of certain income from foreign operations, compliance costs and enforcement under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), and costs associated with complying with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
For example, under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC has adopted additional disclosure requirements related to the source of certain “conflict minerals” for issuers for which such “conflict minerals” are necessary to the functionality or product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer. The metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as “3TG.” Our suppliers may use some or all of these materials in their production processes. The SEC's rules require us to perform due diligence on our suppliers. Global supply chains can have multiple layers, thus the costs of complying with these requirements could be substantial. These requirements may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Compliance costs and the unavailability of raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 
As another example, the Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”), which was adopted in 2010 and is being phased in over several years, significantly affects the provision of both healthcare services and benefits in the U.S.; the ACA may impact our cost of providing our employees and retirees with health insurance and/or benefits, and may also impact various other aspects of our business. We provide benefits to our employees which are competitive within the industries in which we operate. The ACA did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or results of operations in 2015, 2014 or 2013; however, we are continuing to assess the impact of the ACA on our healthcare benefit costs. The regulatory environment is still developing, and the potential exists for future legislation and regulations to be adopted. These developments, as well as the increasingly strict regulatory environment, may also adversely affect the customers to which, and the markets into which, we sell our products, and increase our costs and otherwise negatively affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations, including in ways that cannot yet be foreseen. 
19

Our annual effective income tax rate can change materially as a result of changes in our mix of U.S. and foreign earnings and other factors, including changes in tax laws and changes made by regulatory authorities. 
Our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. However, income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis. Losses in one jurisdiction may not be used to offset profits in other jurisdictions and may cause an increase in our tax rate. Changes in the mix of earnings (or losses) between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate.   
We are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. As a result, any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
We are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate and financing structure. We are also subject to transfer pricing laws with respect to our intercompany transactions, including those relating to the flow of funds among our companies. Adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations. In addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the U.S., may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. If any applicable tax authorities, including U.S. tax authorities, were to successfully challenge the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of our operations.
Our performance and prospects for future growth could be adversely affected if new products do not meet sales or margin expectations. 
Our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. The development and introduction cycle of new products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment. New products may not meet sales or margin expectations due to many factors, including our inability to (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner; or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies. 
A major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and distribution operations or our information systems and telecommunication resources could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
If we experienced a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key supplier, our supply chain or our information systems and telecommunication resources, then there could be a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on internal and third party information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for fulfilling and invoicing customer orders, applying cash receipts, and placing purchase orders with suppliers, making cash disbursements, and conducting digital marketing activities, data processing and electronic communications among business locations. 
We also depend on telecommunication systems for communications between company personnel and our customers and suppliers. Future system disruptions, security breaches or shutdowns could significantly disrupt our operations or result in lost or misappropriated information and may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
As a result of previous acquisitions, including Diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets and we may never realize the full carrying value of these assets. 
As a result of certain acquisitions, including the acquisition of Diversey, we recorded a significant amount of additional goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets, including customer relationships, trademarks and developed technologies. 
20

We test goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for possible impairment annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Amortizable intangible assets are periodically reviewed for possible impairment whenever there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment may result from, among other things, (i) a decrease in our expected net earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions; (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates; (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. In the event that we determine that events or circumstances exist that indicate that the carrying value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, we might have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Product liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our brands. 
Claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our products arise in the ordinary course of our business. In addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. We could also be required to recall possibly defective products, or voluntarily do so, which could result in adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although we maintain product liability insurance coverage, potential product liabilities claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in increased costs for such coverage. 
The relationship with S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. (“SCJ”) is important to our Diversey Care segment, and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. 
Diversey is party to various agreements with SCJ under which it is granted a license in specified territories to sell certain SCJ products and use specified trade names owned by SCJ in the institutional and industrial channels of trade and, subject to certain limitations, in specified channels of trade in which both our Diversey Care segment and SCJ’s consumer business operate, which expires in 2017.  Although the term of this agreement may be extended, it is uncertain the parties will agree to do so. If we default under our agreements with SCJ and the agreements are terminated, we are not able to amicably resolve any disputes in accordance with the terms of the agreements, SCJ fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with SCJ is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our Diversey Care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
The relationship with Unilever PLC (“Unilever”) is important to our Diversey Care segment and any damage to this relationship could have a material adverse effect on this segment. 
Diversey is a party to various agreements with Unilever under which it is granted a license to produce and sell professional size packs of Unilever’s consumer brand cleaning products in the institutional and industrial channels of trade, which expires at the end of 2017 (with the exception of a sub-set of the UK business which expires at the end of 2022). Although the term of this agreement may be extended, it is uncertain that the parties will agree to do so. In addition, Diversey also holds licenses to use some trademarks and technology of Unilever in the market for institutional and industrial cleaning, sanitation and hygiene products and related services. If we default under our agreements with Unilever and the agreements are terminated, Unilever fails to perform its obligations under these agreements, or our relationship with Unilever is otherwise damaged or severed, this could have a material adverse effect on our Diversey Care segment, consolidated financial condition or results of operations.
If we are unable to retain key employees and other personnel, our consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be adversely affected. 
Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our management team and other key personnel. Their experience and industry contacts significantly benefit us, and we need their expertise to execute our business strategies. If any of our senior management or other key personnel cease to work for us and we are unable to successfully replace any departing senior management or key personnel, our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 
21

We could experience disruptions in operations and/or increased labor costs. 
In Europe and Latin America, most of our employees are represented by either labor unions or workers councils and are covered by collective bargaining agreements that are generally renewable on an annual basis. As is the case with any negotiation, we may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements, which could result in strikes or work stoppages by affected workers. Renewal of collective bargaining agreements could also result in higher wages or benefits paid to union members. A disruption in operations or higher ongoing labor costs could materially affect our business. 
We are subject to a variety of environmental and product registration laws that expose us to potential financial liability and increased operating costs. 
Our operations are subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the manufacture of our products, the discharge of pollutants into the air, soil and water and the use, handling, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. 
Many jurisdictions require us to have operating permits for our production and warehouse facilities and operations. Any failure to obtain, maintain or comply with the terms of these permits could result in fines or penalties, revocation or nonrenewal of our permits, or orders to cease certain operations, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 
We generate, use and dispose of hazardous materials in our manufacturing processes. In the event our operations result in the release of hazardous materials into the environment, we may become responsible for the costs associated with the investigation and remediation of sites at which we have released pollutants, or sites where we have disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, even if we fully complied with environmental laws at the time of disposal. We have been, and may continue to be, responsible for the cost of remediation at some locations. 
Some jurisdictions have laws and regulations that govern the registration and labeling of some of our products. We expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our European operations as a result of a European Union (“EU”) Directive “Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals” (EU Directive No. 2006/1907) enacted on December 18, 2006. The directive imposes several requirements related to the identification and management of risks related to chemical substances manufactured or marketed in Europe. The EU has also recently enacted a “Classification, Packaging and Labeling” regulation. Other jurisdictions may impose similar requirements. 
We cannot predict with reasonable certainty the future cost to us of environmental compliance, product registration, or environmental remediation. Environmental laws have become more stringent and complex over time. Our environmental costs and operating expenses will be subject to evolving regulatory requirements and will depend on the scope and timing of the effectiveness of requirements in these various jurisdictions. As a result of such requirements, we may be subject to an increased regulatory burden, and we expect significant future environmental compliance obligations in our operations. Increased compliance costs, increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, or our inability to market some of our products in certain jurisdictions may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
The legacy Diversey business had tendered various environmental indemnification claims to Unilever pursuant to the Unilever Acquisition Agreement (as defined below). 
Under a previous acquisition agreement between the legacy Diversey business and Unilever (the “Unilever Acquisition Agreement”), Unilever made warranties to Diversey with respect to the facilities formerly owned by Unilever. In addition, Unilever agreed to indemnify Diversey for specified types of environmental liabilities if the aggregate amount of damages meets various dollar thresholds, subject to a cap of $250 million in the aggregate. Diversey was required to notify Unilever of any environmental indemnification claims by May 3, 2008. Any environmental claims pending after this date, with respect to which Diversey has notified Unilever, remain subject to indemnification until remediation is completed in accordance with the Unilever Acquisition Agreement. 
Diversey has previously tendered various environmental indemnification claims to Unilever in connection with former Unilever locations. Unilever has not indicated its agreement with Diversey’s request for indemnification. We may file additional requests for reimbursement in the future in connection with pending indemnification claims. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover any amounts relating to these indemnification claims from Unilever. 
22

Our insurance policies may not cover all operating risks and a casualty loss beyond the limits of our coverage could adversely impact our business. 
Our business is subject to operating hazards and risks relating to handling, storing, transporting and use of the products we sell. We maintain insurance policies in amounts and with coverage and deductibles that we believe are reasonable and prudent. Nevertheless, our insurance coverage may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities and expenses that may arise from claims for personal injury or death or property damage arising in the ordinary course of business, and our current levels of insurance may not be maintained or available in the future at economical prices. If a significant liability claim is brought against us that are not adequately covered by insurance, we may have to pay the claim with our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
If we are not able to protect our trade secrets or maintain our trademarks, patents and other intellectual property, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing similar products or from marketing their products in a manner that capitalizes on our trademarks, and this loss of a competitive advantage could decrease our profitability and liquidity. 
Our ability to compete effectively with other companies depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our owned and licensed intellectual property. If we were unable to maintain the proprietary nature of our intellectual property and our significant current or proposed products, this loss of a competitive advantage could result in decreased sales or increased operating costs, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
We rely on trade secrets to maintain our competitive position, including protecting the formulation and manufacturing techniques of many of our products. As such, we have not sought U.S. or international patent protection for some of our principal product formulas and manufacturing processes. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent others from developing products that are similar to or competitive with our products. 
We own a large number of patents and pending patent applications on our products, aspects thereof, methods of use and/or methods of manufacturing. There is a risk that our patents may not provide meaningful protection and patents may never be issued for our pending patent applications. 
We own, or have licenses to use, all of the material trademark and trade name rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and distribution of our major products both in the U.S. and in other countries where our products are principally sold. Trademark and trade name protection is important to our business. Although most of our trademarks are registered in the U.S. and in the foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. The costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. 
We cannot be certain that we will be able to assert these intellectual property rights successfully in the future or that they will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our intellectual property in the marketplace. Third parties, including competitors, may assert intellectual property infringement or invalidity claims against us that could be upheld. Intellectual property litigation, which could result in substantial cost to and diversion of effort by us, may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or proprietary technology or for us to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others and to determine the scope and validity of others’ proprietary rights. We may not prevail in any such litigation, and if we are unsuccessful, we may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on reasonable terms or at all. 
Any failure by us to protect our trademarks and other intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 
Cyber risk and the failure to maintain the integrity of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
We are subject to an increasing number of information technology vulnerabilities, threats and targeted computer crimes which pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and customers, or cyber attacks or security breaches of our networks or systems, could result in the loss of customers and business opportunities, legal liability, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we attempt to mitigate these risks, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced and persistent threats. 
23

We also maintain and have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and customer controls. Despite our efforts to protect such sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, our facilities and systems and those of our customers and third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors that could lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could adversely affect our consolidated, financial condition and results of operations. 
 
 
 
24





Item 1B