Item 1A,
    “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    which information is incorporated herein by reference. Financial
    information showing net sales and total long-lived assets by
    geographic region for each of the three years ended
    December 31, 2010 appears in Note 3,
    “Segments,” which information is incorporated herein
    by reference. We maintain programs to comply with the various
    laws, rules and regulations related to the protection of the
    environment that we may be subject to in the many countries in
    which we operate. See “Environmental Matters,” below.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    16,100 employees worldwide. Approximately 6,800 of these
    employees were in the U.S., with approximately 100 of these
    employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Of the
    approximately 9,300 employees who were outside the U.S.,
    approximately 6,300 were covered by collective bargaining
    agreements. Outside of the U.S., many of the covered employees
    are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is
    customary in the jurisdictions in which they are employed. We
    believe that our employee relations are satisfactory.


 



    Marketing,
    Distribution and Customers


 


    At December 31, 2010, we employed approximately 2,300
    sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the
    world who sell and market our products to and through a large
    number of distributors, fabricators, converters,
    e-commerce
    and mail order fulfillment firms, and contract packaging firms
    as well as directly to end-users such as food processors,
    foodservice businesses, supermarket retailers, pharmaceutical
    companies, medical device manufacturers and other manufacturers.


 


    To support our food packaging, food solutions and new ventures
    customers, we operate two food science laboratories and three
    Packforum®

    innovation and learning centers that are located in the U.S.,
    France, and China. At
    Packforum®,

    we assist customers in identifying the appropriate packaging
    materials and systems to meet their needs. We also offer
    ideation services, educational seminars, employee training and
    customized graphic design services to our customers.


 


    To assist our marketing efforts for our protective packaging
    products and to provide specialized customer services, we
    operate 35 industrial package design and development
    laboratories worldwide within our facilities. These laboratories
    are staffed by professional packaging engineers and equipped
    with drop-testing and other equipment used to develop and test
    cost-effective package designs to meet the particular protective
    packaging requirements of each customer.


 


    We operate five equipment design centers in three countries that
    focus on equipment and parts design and innovation to support
    the development of comprehensive systems solutions. We also
    provide field technical services to our customers worldwide.
    These services include system installation, integration and
    monitoring systems, repair and upgrade, operator training in the
    efficient use of packaging systems, qualification of various
    consumable and system combinations, and packaging line layout
    and design.


 


    Our Medical Applications business offers two cleanroom contract
    assembly and packaging facilities in two countries, as well as a
    packaging validation lab. We also operate two equipment and
    medical device packaging labs in two countries that support
    customers’ package design needs and packaging equipment
    systems.


 


    We have no material long-term contracts for the distribution of
    our products. In 2010, no customer or affiliated group of
    customers accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net
    sales.


 



    Seasonality


 


    Historically, net sales in our food businesses have tended to be
    slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards
    the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to
    holiday events. Our Protective Packaging segment has tended to
    also be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher during
    the
    “back-to-school”
    season in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter
    due to the holiday shopping season.




    
    7



Table of Contents






    Competition


 


    Competition for most of our packaging products is based
    primarily on packaging performance characteristics, service and
    price. Since competition is also based upon innovations in
    packaging technology, we maintain ongoing research and
    development programs to enable us to maintain technological
    leadership. We invest approximately double the industry average
    on research and development as a percentage of net sales per
    year. There are also other companies producing competing
    products that are well-established.


 


    There are other manufacturers of food packaging and food
    solutions products, some of which are companies offering similar
    products that operate across regions and others that operate in
    a single region or single country. Competing manufacturers
    produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic,
    metals and other materials. We believe that we are one of the
    leading suppliers of (i) flexible food packaging materials
    and related systems in the principal geographic areas in which
    we offer those products, (ii) barrier trays for case-ready
    meat products in the principal geographic areas in which we
    offers those trays, and (iii) absorbent pads for food
    products to supermarkets and to meat and poultry processors in
    the United States.


 


    Our protective packaging products compete with similar products
    made by other manufacturers and with a number of other packaging
    materials that customers use to provide protection against
    damage to their products during shipment and storage. Among the
    competitive materials are various forms of paper packaging
    products, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, strapping,
    envelopes, reinforced bags, boxes and other containers, and
    various corrugated materials, as well as various types of molded
    foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock
    mounts, and wood blocking and bracing systems. We believe that
    we are one of the leading suppliers of air cellular cushioning
    materials containing a barrier layer, inflatable packaging,
    suspension and retention packaging, shrink films for industrial
    and commercial applications, protective mailers, polyethylene
    foam and polyurethane foam packaging systems in the principal
    geographic areas in which we sell these products.


 


    Competition in specialty materials is focused on performance
    characteristics and price. Competition for most of our medical
    applications products is based primarily on performance
    characteristics, service and price. Technical design capability
    is an additional competitive factor for the rigid packaging
    offered by the Medical Applications business.


 



    Raw
    Materials


 


    Our principal raw materials are polyolefin and other
    petrochemical-based resins and films, and paper and wood pulp
    products. These raw materials represent approximately one-third
    of our consolidated cost of goods sold. We also purchase
    corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films
    and Bubble
    Wrap®

    brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, and blowing agents
    used in the expansion of foam packaging products. In addition,
    we offer a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some
    of which we manufacture or have manufactured to our
    specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we
    purchase from suppliers.


 


    The raw materials for our products generally have been readily
    available on the open market and in most cases are available
    from several suppliers. However, we have some sole-source
    suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a
    material negative impact on our business. Natural disasters such
    as hurricanes, as well as political instability and terrorist
    activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery
    capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical
    suppliers in the future. These factors could lead to increased
    prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies and
    allocation of raw materials by our suppliers. We source some
    materials used in our packaging products from materials recycled
    in our manufacturing operations or obtained through
    participation in recycling programs.


 



    Sourcing


 


    We have a centralized supply chain organization, which includes
    the centralized management of procurement and logistic
    activities. Our objective is to leverage our global scale to
    achieve sourcing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered
    cost across all our regions. We do this while adhering to
    strategic performance metrics and stringent sourcing practices.




    
    8



Table of Contents






    Research
    and Development Activities


 


    We maintain a continuing effort to develop new products and
    improve our existing products and processes, including
    developing new packaging and non-packaging applications using
    our intellectual property. From time to time, we also acquire
    and commercialize new packaging and other products or techniques
    developed by others. Our research and development projects rely
    on our technical capabilities in the areas of food science,
    materials science, package design and equipment engineering. We
    spent $88 million in 2010, $81 million in 2009 and
    $86 million in 2008 on research and development.


 



    Patents
    and Trademarks


 


    We are the owner or licensee of an aggregate of over 2,500
    United States and foreign patents and patent applications, as
    well as an aggregate of over 3,000 United States and foreign
    trademark registrations and trademark applications that relate
    to many of our products, manufacturing processes and equipment.
    We believe that our patents and trademarks collectively provide
    a competitive advantage. As such, each year we continue to file,
    in the aggregate, an average of 200 United States and foreign
    patent applications and 200 United States and foreign trademark
    applications. None of our reportable segments is dependent upon
    any single patent or trademark alone. Rather, we believe that
    our success depends primarily on our sales and service,
    marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on our
    ongoing research and development efforts. We believe that the
    expiration or unenforceability of any of our patents,
    applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be
    material to our business or consolidated financial position.


 



    Environmental,
    Health and Safety Matters


 


    As a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and
    regulations in the countries, jurisdictions and localities in
    which we operate. These cover: the safe storage and use of raw
    materials and production chemicals; the release of materials
    into the environment; standards for the treatment, storage and
    disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; or otherwise relate to
    the protection of the environment. We review environmental,
    health and safety laws and regulations pertaining to our
    operations and believe that compliance with current
    environmental and workplace health and safety laws and
    regulations has not had a material effect on our capital
    expenditures or consolidated financial position.


 


    In some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are sold
    or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that
    seek to regulate, among other things, minimum levels of recycled
    or reprocessed content and, more generally, the sale or disposal
    of packaging materials. In addition, customer demand continues
    to evolve for packaging materials that incorporate renewable
    materials or that are otherwise viewed as being
    “environmentally sound.” Our new venture activities,
    described above, include the development of packaging products
    from renewable resources. We maintain programs designed to
    comply with these laws and regulations, to monitor their
    evolution, and to meet this customer demand. One advantage
    inherent in many of our products is that thin, lightweight
    packaging solutions reduce waste and transportation costs in
    comparison to available alternatives. We continue to evaluate
    and implement new technologies in this area as they become
    available.


 


    We also support our customers’ interests in eliminating
    waste by offering or participating in collection programs for
    some of our products or product packaging and for materials used
    in some of our products. When possible, materials collected
    through these programs are reprocessed and either reused in our
    protective packaging operations or offered to other
    manufacturers for use in other products. In addition, gains that
    we have made in internal recycling programs have allowed us to
    improve our net raw material yield, thus mitigating the impact
    of resin costs, while lowering solid waste disposal costs and
    controlling environmental liability risks associated with waste
    disposal.


 


    Our emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance
    provides us with risk reduction opportunities and cost savings
    through asset protection and protection of employees, for which
    we are recognized as leaders in our industry. Our website,
    www.sealedair.com, contains additional detailed
    information about our corporate citizenship initiatives.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    Available
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.sealedair.com. We make
    available, free of charge, on or through our website at
    www.sealedair.com, our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant
    to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable
    after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish
    them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Introduction


 


    Investors should carefully consider the risks described below
    before making an investment decision. These are the most
    significant risk factors; however, they are not the only risk
    factors that you should consider in making an investment
    decision.


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    also contains and may incorporate by reference from our Proxy
    Statement for our 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or from
    exhibits, forward-looking statements that involve risks and
    uncertainties. See the “Cautionary Notice Regarding
    Forward-Looking Statements” below. Our actual results could
    differ materially from those anticipated in these
    forward-looking statements as a result of many factors,
    including the risks that we face, which are described below and
    elsewhere in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    or in documents incorporated by reference in this report.


 


    Our business, consolidated financial position or results of
    operations could be materially adversely affected by any of
    these risks. The trading price of our securities could decline
    due to any of these risks, and investors in our securities may
    lose all or part of their investment.


 



    Weakened
    global economic conditions have had and could continue to have
    an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and
    results of operations.


 


    Weakened global economic conditions have had and may continue to
    have an adverse impact on our business in the form of lower net
    sales due to weakened demand, unfavorable changes in product
    price/mix, or lower profit margins.


 


    During periods of economic recession, there can be a heightened
    competition for sales and increased pressure to reduce selling
    prices. If we lose significant sales volume or reduce selling
    prices significantly, then there could be a negative impact on
    our consolidated revenue, profitability and cash flows.


 


    Also, reduced availability of credit may adversely affect the
    ability of some of our customers and suppliers to obtain funds
    for operations and capital expenditures. This could negatively
    impact our ability to obtain necessary supplies as well as our
    sales of materials and equipment to affected customers. This
    also could result in reduced or delayed collections of
    outstanding accounts receivable.


 



    The
    global nature of our operations in the United States and in 51
    foreign countries exposes us to numerous risks that could
    materially adversely affect our consolidated financial position
    and results of operations.


 


    We operate in the United States and in 51 other countries, and
    our products are distributed in those countries as well as in
    other parts of the world. A large portion of our manufacturing
    operations are located outside of the United States.
    Operations outside of the United States, particularly operations
    in developing regions, are subject to various risks that may not
    be present or as significant for our U.S. operations.
    Economic uncertainty in some of the geographic regions in which
    we operate, including developing regions, could result in the
    disruption of commerce and negatively impact cash flows from our
    operations in those areas.


 


    Risks inherent in our international operations include social
    plans that prohibit or increase the cost of certain
    restructuring actions; exchange controls; foreign currency
    exchange rate fluctuations including devaluations; the potential
    for changes in local economic conditions including local
    inflationary pressures; restrictive governmental actions such as
    those on transfer or repatriation of funds and trade protection
    matters, including antidumping duties, tariffs, embargoes and
    prohibitions or restrictions on acquisitions or joint ventures;
    changes in laws and regulations,





    
    10



Table of Contents





    including the laws and policies of the United States affecting
    trade and foreign investment; the difficulty of enforcing
    agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign
    legal systems; variations in protection of intellectual property
    and other legal rights; more expansive legal rights of foreign
    unions or works councils; the potential for nationalization of
    enterprises or facilities; and unsettled political conditions
    and possible terrorist attacks against United States or other
    interests. In addition, there are potential tax inefficiencies
    in repatriating funds from our
    non-U.S. subsidiaries.


 


    These and other factors may have a material adverse effect on
    our international operations and, consequently, on our
    consolidated financial position and results of operations.


 



    If the
    settlement of the asbestos-related claims that we have agreed to
    (the “Settlement agreement”) is not implemented, we
    will not be released from the various asbestos-related,
    fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification
    claims made against us arising from a 1998 transaction with W.
    R. Grace & Co. We are also a defendant in a number of
    asbestos-related actions in Canada arising from W. R.
    Grace & Co.’s activities in Canada prior to the
    1998 transaction.


 


    On November 27, 2002, we reached an agreement in principle
    with the Official Committee of Asbestos Personal Injury
    Claimants (the “ACC”) and the Official Committee of
    Asbestos Property Damage Claimants appointed to represent
    asbestos claimants in the W. R. Grace & Co.
    (“Grace”) bankruptcy case to resolve all current and
    future asbestos-related claims made against us and our
    affiliates. The Settlement agreement will also resolve the
    fraudulent transfer claims and successor liability claims, as
    well as indemnification claims by Fresenius Medical Care
    Holdings, Inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the
    Cryovac transaction. The Cryovac transaction was a multi-step
    transaction, completed on March 31, 1998, which brought the
    Cryovac packaging business and the former Sealed Air
    Corporation’s business under the common ownership of the
    Company. The parties to the agreement in principle signed the
    definitive Settlement agreement as of November 10, 2003
    consistent with the terms of the agreement in principle. On
    June 27, 2005, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the
    District of Delaware, where the Grace bankruptcy case is
    pending, signed an order approving the definitive Settlement
    agreement. Although Grace is not a party to the Settlement
    agreement, under the terms of the order, Grace is directed to
    comply with the Settlement agreement subject to limited
    exceptions. On September 19, 2008, Grace, the ACC, the
    Asbestos PI Future Claimants’ Representative (the
    “FCR”), and the Official Committee of Equity Security
    Holders (the “Equity Committee”) filed, as
    co-proponents, a plan of reorganization (as filed and amended
    from time to time, the “PI Settlement Plan”) and
    several exhibits and associated documents, including a
    disclosure statement (as filed and amended from time to time,
    the “PI Settlement Disclosure Statement”), with the
    Bankruptcy Court. As filed, the PI Settlement Plan would provide
    for the establishment of two asbestos trusts under
    Section 524(g) of the United States Bankruptcy Code to
    which present and future asbestos-related claims would be
    channeled. The PI Settlement Plan also contemplates that the
    terms of our definitive Settlement agreement will be
    incorporated into the PI Settlement Plan and that we will pay
    the amount contemplated by that agreement.


 


    On January 31, 2011, the Bankruptcy Court entered a
    memorandum opinion (the “Memorandum Opinion”)
    overruling certain objections to the PI Settlement Plan. On the
    same date, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order regarding
    confirmation of the PI Settlement Plan (the “Confirmation
    Order”). As entered on January 31, 2011, the
    Confirmation Order contained recommended findings of fact and
    conclusions of law, and recommended that the U.S. District
    Court for the District of Delaware (the “District
    Court”) approve the Confirmation Order, and that the
    District Court confirm the PI Settlement Plan and issue a
    channeling injunction under Section 524(g) of the
    Bankruptcy Code. Thereafter, on February 15, 2011, the
    Bankruptcy Court issued an order clarifying its Memorandum
    Opinion and Confirmation Order (the “Clarifying
    Order”). Among other things, the Clarifying Order provided
    that any references in the Memorandum Opinion and Confirmation
    Order to a recommendation that the District Court confirm the PI
    Settlement Plan were thereby amended to make clear that the PI
    Settlement Plan was confirmed and that the Bankruptcy Court was
    requesting that the District Court issue and affirm the
    Confirmation Order including the injunction under
    Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code.


 


    If it becomes effective, the PI Settlement Plan may implement
    the terms of the Settlement agreement, but there can be no
    assurance that this will be the case notwithstanding the
    Bankruptcy Court’s confirmation of the PI Settlement Plan.
    The terms of the PI Settlement Plan remain subject to amendment.
    Moreover, the PI Settlement Plan is subject to the satisfaction
    of a number of conditions which are more fully set forth in the
    PI Settlement Plan





    
    11



Table of Contents





    and include, without limitation, the availability of exit
    financing and the approval of the PI Settlement Plan by the
    District Court. Additionally, various parties have filed notices
    of appeal or have otherwise challenged the Memorandum Opinion
    and Confirmation Order, and the PI Settlement Plan may be
    subject to further appeal or challenge by additional parties.
    Parties filed a number of objections to the PI Settlement Plan,
    and some of these objections concerned injunctions, releases and
    provisions as applied to us
    and/or that
    are contemplated by the Settlement agreement. Such parties (or
    others) may appeal or otherwise challenge the Bankruptcy
    Court’s Memorandum Opinion and Confirmation Order, or
    otherwise continue to oppose the PI Settlement Plan.


 


    While the Bankruptcy Court has confirmed the PI Settlement Plan,
    additional proceedings may be held before the District Court or
    other courts to consider matters related to the PI Settlement
    Plan. We do not know whether or when a final plan of
    reorganization will become effective. Assuming that a final plan
    of reorganization (whether the PI Settlement Plan or another
    plan of reorganization) is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court,
    approved by the District Court, and does become effective, we do
    not know whether the final plan of reorganization will be
    consistent with the terms of the Settlement agreement and if the
    other conditions to our obligation to pay the Settlement
    agreement amount will be met. If these conditions are not
    satisfied or not waived by us, we will not be obligated to pay
    the amount contemplated by the Settlement agreement. However, if
    we do not pay the Settlement agreement amount, we and our
    affiliates will not be released from the various claims against
    us.


 


    If the Settlement agreement does not become effective, either
    because Grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because Grace
    does not emerge from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization
    that is consistent with the terms of the Settlement agreement,
    then we and our affiliates will not be released from the various
    asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and
    indemnification claims made against us and our affiliates noted
    above, and all of these claims would remain pending and would
    have to be resolved through other means, such as through
    agreement on alternative settlement terms or trials. In that
    case, we could face liabilities that are significantly different
    from our obligations under the Settlement agreement. We cannot
    estimate at this time what those differences or their magnitude
    may be. In the event these liabilities are materially larger
    than the current existing obligations, they could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position
    and results of operations.


 


    Since November 2004, the Company and specified subsidiaries have
    been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a
    number of putative class actions, brought in Canada as a result
    of Grace’s alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing
    of asbestos or asbestos containing products in Canada prior to
    the Cryovac transaction in 1998. Grace has agreed to defend and
    indemnify us and our subsidiaries in these cases. The Canadian
    cases are currently stayed. A global settlement of these
    Canadian claims to be funded by Grace has been approved by the
    Canadian court, and the PI Settlement Plan provides for payment
    of these claims. We do not have any positive obligations under
    the Canadian settlement, but we are a beneficiary of the release
    of claims. The release in favor of the Grace parties (including
    us) will become operative upon the effective date of a plan of
    reorganization in Grace’s United States Chapter 11
    bankruptcy proceeding. As filed, the PI Settlement Plan
    contemplates that the claims released under the Canadian
    settlement will be subject to injunctions under
    Section 524(g) of the Bankruptcy Code. By its terms, the
    Canadian settlement will, unless amended, become null and void
    if a confirmation order in the Grace U.S. bankruptcy
    proceeding is not granted prior to July 31, 2011. As
    indicated above, the Bankruptcy Court entered the Confirmation
    Order on January 31, 2011 and the Clarifying Order on
    February 15, 2011; however, we can give no assurance that
    the PI Settlement Plan (or any other plan of reorganization)
    will be approved by the District Court, or will become
    effective. Assuming that a final plan of reorganization (whether
    the PI Settlement Plan or another plan of reorganization) is
    confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, approved by the District
    Court, and does become effective, if the final plan of
    reorganization does not incorporate the terms of the Canadian
    settlement or if the Canadian courts refuse to enforce the final
    plan of reorganization in the Canadian courts, and if in
    addition Grace is unwilling or unable to defend and indemnify us
    and our subsidiaries in these cases, then we could be required
    to pay substantial damages, which we cannot estimate at this
    time and which could have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position and results of operations.


 


    For further information concerning these matters, see
    Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies,” of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption
    “Cryovac Transaction Commitments and Contingencies.”




    
    12



Table of Contents






    A
    downgrade of our credit ratings could have a negative impact on
    our costs and ability to access credit markets.


 


    Our cost of capital and ability to obtain external financing may
    be affected by our debt ratings, which the credit rating
    agencies review periodically. The Company and our long-term
    senior unsecured debt are currently rated BB+ (positive outlook)
    by Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC. On
    November 18, 2010, Standard & Poor’s revised
    our ratings outlook to positive from stable. This rating is
    considered non-investment grade. The Company and our long-term
    senior unsecured debt are currently rated Baa3 by Moody’s
    Investor Service, Inc. This rating is considered investment
    grade. On May 4, 2010, Moody’s revised our ratings
    outlook to stable from negative. If our credit ratings are
    downgraded, there could be a negative impact on our ability to
    access capital markets and borrowing costs could increase. A
    credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold
    securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any
    time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated
    independently of any other rating.


 



    Raw
    material pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as
    well as energy-related costs may negatively impact our results
    of operations, including our profit margins.


 


    We use petrochemical-based raw materials to manufacture many of
    our products. Increases in market demand or fluctuations in the
    global trade for petrochemical-based raw materials and energy
    could increase our costs. We also have some sole-source
    suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition
    and results of operations.


 


    Natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as political
    instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the
    production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural
    gas and petrochemical suppliers in the future. These factors
    could lead to increased prices for our raw materials,
    curtailment of supplies and allocation of raw materials by our
    suppliers, which could reduce revenues and profit margins and
    harm relations with our customers and which could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    The
    effects of animal and food-related health issues such as bovine
    spongiform encephalopathy, also known as “mad cow”
    disease,
    foot-and-mouth
    disease and avian influenza or “bird-flu,” as well as
    other health issues affecting the food industry, may lead to
    decreased revenues.


 


    We manufacture and sell food packaging products, among other
    products. Various health issues affecting the food industry have
    in the past and may in the future have a negative effect on the
    sales of food packaging products. In recent years, occasional
    cases of mad cow disease have been confirmed and incidents of
    bird flu have surfaced in various countries. Outbreaks of animal
    diseases may lead governments to restrict exports and imports of
    potentially affected animals and food products, leading to
    decreased demand for our products and possibly also to the
    culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal
    population otherwise intended for food supply. Also, consumers
    may change their eating habits as a result of perceived problems
    with certain types of food. These factors may lead to reduced
    sales of food businesses’ products, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position
    and results of operations.


 



    Concerns
    about greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and climate change and the
    resulting governmental and market responses to these issues
    could increase costs that we incur and could otherwise affect
    our consolidated financial position and results of
    operations.


 


    Numerous legislative and regulatory initiatives have been
    enacted and proposed in response to concerns about GHG emissions
    and climate change. We are a manufacturing entity that utilizes
    petrochemical-based raw materials to produce many of our
    products, including plastic packaging materials. Increased
    environmental legislation or regulation could result in higher
    costs for us in the form of higher raw materials and freight and
    energy costs. We could also incur additional compliance costs
    for monitoring and reporting emissions and for maintaining
    permits. It is also possible that certain materials might cease
    to be permitted to be used in our processes.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    Disruption
    and volatility of the financial and credit markets could affect
    our external liquidity sources.


 


    Our principal sources of liquidity are accumulated cash and cash
    equivalents, short-term investments, cash flow from operations
    and amounts available under our existing lines of credit,
    including our global credit facility, our European credit
    facility, and our accounts receivable securitization program (as
    described in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is included
    in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K).
    Our accounts receivable securitization program includes a bank
    financing commitment that must be renewed annually prior to the
    expiration date. The bank commitment is scheduled to expire on
    December 2, 2011. While the bank is not obligated to renew
    the bank financing commitment, we have negotiated annual
    renewals since the commencement of the program in 2001.


 


    Additionally, conditions in financial markets could affect
    financial institutions with which we have relationships and
    could result in adverse effects on our ability to utilize fully
    our committed borrowing facilities. For example, a lender under
    our global credit facility or the European credit facility may
    be unwilling or unable to fund a borrowing request, and we may
    not be able to replace such lender.


 



    Covenant
    restrictions under our credit arrangements may pose a
    risk.


 


    We have a number of credit facilities, including our global
    credit facility, our European credit facility, and our accounts
    receivable securitization program, and debt securities we have
    issued, to manage liquidity and fund operations (as described in
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
    and Results of Operations, which is included in Part II,
    Item 7 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K).
    The agreements relating to these facilities and securities
    generally contain certain restrictive covenants, including the
    incurrence of additional indebtedness, restriction of liens and
    sale and leaseback transactions, financial covenants relating to
    interest coverage, debt leverage and minimum liquidity, and
    restrictions on consolidation and merger transactions, as well
    as, in some cases, restrictions on amendments to the Settlement
    agreement. In addition, amounts available under our accounts
    receivable securitization program can be impacted by a number of
    factors, including but not limited to our credit ratings,
    accounts receivable balances, the creditworthiness of our
    customers and our receivables collection experience. As a result
    of some of these factors, the amount available to us under the
    program has decreased. Although we do not believe that any of
    these covenants or other restrictive provisions presently
    materially restricts our liquidity position, a breach of one or
    more of the covenants or an event that triggers other
    restrictive provisions could result in material adverse
    consequences that could negatively impact our business,
    consolidated results of operations and financial position. This
    in turn could result in a further decline in amounts available
    under the accounts receivable securitization program or
    termination of the program. Such adverse consequences may
    include the acceleration of amounts outstanding under certain of
    the facilities, triggering the obligation to redeem certain debt
    securities, termination of existing unused commitments by our
    lenders or the bank commitment related to our accounts
    receivable securitization program, refusal by lenders to extend
    further credit under one or more of the facilities or to enter
    into new facilities, or the lowering or modification of our
    credit ratings.


 



    Strengthening
    of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currency exchange rate
    fluctuations could materially impact our consolidated financial
    position and results of operations.


 


    During 2010, approximately 54% of our sales originated outside
    the United States. We translate sales and other results
    denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our
    consolidated financial statements. During periods of a
    strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales
    and net earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may
    translate into fewer U.S. dollars.


 


    Also, while we often produce in the same geographic markets as
    our products are sold, expenses are more concentrated in the
    United States compared with sales, so that in a time of
    strengthening of the U.S. dollar, our profit margins could
    be reduced. While we use financial instruments to hedge certain
    foreign currency exposures, this does not insulate us completely
    from foreign currency effects.


 


    We have recognized foreign exchange gains and losses related to
    the currency devaluations in Venezuela and its designation as a
    highly inflationary economy under generally accepted accounting
    principles in the United States of America, or
    U.S. GAAP, effective January 1, 2010. See
    “Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk,” of
    Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
    About Market Risk,” for further discussion.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    We may use financial instruments from time to time to manage
    exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which exposes us
    to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. See
    Note 12, “Derivatives and Hedging Activities,”
    for further discussion, which is contained in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    The
    full realization of our deferred tax assets, including primarily
    those related to the Settlement agreement may be affected by a
    number of factors.


 


    We have deferred tax assets related to the Settlement agreement,
    other accruals not yet deductible for tax purposes, foreign net
    operating loss carry forwards and investment tax allowances,
    employee benefit items, and other items. We have established
    valuation allowances to reduce those deferred tax assets to an
    amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Our ability
    to utilize these deferred tax assets depends in part upon our
    future operating results. We expect to realize these assets over
    an extended period. Consequently, changes in tax laws could
    cause actual results to differ from projections.


 


    Our largest deferred tax asset relates to our Settlement
    agreement. The value of this asset, which was $368 million
    at December 31, 2010, may be affected by our tax situation
    at the time of the payment under the Settlement agreement as
    well as by the value of our common stock at that time. The
    deferred tax asset reflects the fair market value of
    18 million shares of our common stock at a post-split price
    of $17.86 per share based on the price when the Settlement
    agreement was reached in 2002. See Note 15, “Income
    Taxes,” for further discussion.


 



    Our
    annual effective income tax rate can materially change as a
    result of changes in our U.S. and foreign mix of earnings and
    other factors including changes in tax laws and changes by
    regulatory authorities.


 


    Our overall effective income tax rate is equal to our total tax
    expense as a percentage of total earnings before tax. However,
    income tax expense and benefits are not recognized on a global
    basis but rather on a jurisdictional or legal entity basis.
    Changes in statutory tax rates and laws, as well as ongoing
    audits by domestic and international authorities, could affect
    the amount of income taxes and other taxes paid by us. For
    example, legislative proposals to change U.S. taxation of
    non-U.S. earnings
    could increase our effective tax rate. Also, changes in the mix
    of earnings between jurisdictions and assumptions used in the
    calculation of income taxes, among other factors, could have a
    significant effect on our overall effective income tax rate.


 



    We
    experience competition in our operating segments and in the
    geographic areas in which we operate.


 


    Our products compete with similar products made by other
    manufacturers and with a number of other types of materials or
    products. We compete on the basis of performance characteristics
    of our products, as well as service, price and innovations in
    technology. A number of competing domestic and foreign companies
    are well-established. Our inability to maintain a competitive
    advantage could result in lower prices or lower sales volumes,
    which would have a negative impact on our consolidated financial
    position and results of operations.


 



    A
    slowing pipeline of new technologies and solutions at favorable
    margins could adversely affect our performance and prospects for
    future growth.


 


    Our competitive advantage is due in part to our ability to
    develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at
    favorable margins. The development and introduction cycle of new
    products can be lengthy and involve high levels of investment.
    New products may not meet sales expectations or margin
    expectations due to many factors, including our inability to:
    (i) accurately predict demand, end-user preferences and
    evolving industry standards; (ii) resolve technical and
    technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner;
    or (iii) achieve manufacturing efficiencies.


 



    A
    major loss of or disruption in our manufacturing and
    distribution operations or our information systems and
    telecommunication resources could adversely affect our
    business.


 


    If we experienced a natural disaster, such as a tornado,
    hurricane, earthquake or other severe weather event, or a
    casualty loss from an event such as a fire or flood, at one of
    our larger strategic facilities or if such event affected a key
    supplier, our supply chain, or our information systems and
    telecommunication resources, then there could be a material
    adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.




    
    15



Table of Contents






    The
    price of our common stock has on occasion experienced
    significant price and volume fluctuations. The sale of
    substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect
    the price of the common stock. One stockholder has beneficial
    ownership of approximately 32% of our common
    shares.


 


    The market price of our common stock has experienced and may
    continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations
    greater than those experienced by the broader stock market. In
    addition, our announcements of our quarterly net earnings,
    future developments relating to the W. R. Grace & Co.
    bankruptcy, litigation, the effects of animal and food-related
    health issues, spikes in raw material and energy related costs,
    changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial
    markets and other developments affecting us, our customers,
    suppliers and competitors are among the events that could cause
    the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially.


 


    The sale or the availability for sale of a large number of
    shares of our common stock in the public market could adversely
    affect the price of the common stock. The Settlement agreement
    discussed above provides for the issuance of 18 million
    shares of our common stock. If this amount of common stock were
    to be sold in a relatively short period of trading, the sale
    could adversely affect the price of our common stock. See
    Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies,” under
    the caption “Cryovac Transaction Commitments and
    Contingencies” for further discussion.


 


    According to a Schedule 13G/A filed with the SEC on
    February 14, 2011, Davis Selected Advisers, L.P. reported
    beneficial ownership of 51,458,302 shares, or approximately
    32%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As such,
    Davis Selected Advisers has a significant voting block with
    respect to matters submitted to a stockholder vote, including
    the election of directors and the approval of potential business
    combination transactions.


 


    While the Schedule 13G/A filed by Davis Selected Advisers, L.P.
    indicates that the beneficially owned shares of our common stock
    were not acquired for the purpose of changing or influencing the
    control of the Company, if this stockholder were to change its
    purpose for holding our common stock from investment to
    attempting to change or influence our management, this
    concentration of our common stock could potentially affect us
    and the price of our common stock.


 



    Weakness
    in the financial and credit markets and other factors could
    potentially lead to the impairment of the carrying amount of our
    goodwill and other long-lived assets.


 


    We have seven reporting units that are included in our segment
    reporting structure. The six reporting units with goodwill
    balances allocated to them are Food Packaging, Food Solutions,
    Protective Packaging, Shrink Packaging, Specialty Materials and
    Medical Applications.


 


    We test goodwill for impairment on a reporting unit basis
    annually during the fourth quarter of each year and at other
    times if events or circumstances exist that indicate the
    carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. During
    2010, we determined that there were no events or changes in
    circumstances that occurred that would indicate that the fair
    value of any of our reporting units may be below its carrying
    value.


 


    Although we determined in 2010 that there were no events or
    changes in circumstances that occurred that would indicate that
    the fair value of any of our reporting units may be below its
    carrying value, the future occurrence of a potential indicator
    of impairment, such as: (i) a decrease in our expected net
    earnings; (ii) adverse equity market conditions;
    (iii) a decline in current market multiples; (iv) a
    decline in our common stock price; (v) a significant
    adverse change in legal factors or business climates;
    (vi) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator;
    (vii) heightened competition; (viii) strategic
    decisions made in response to economic or competitive
    conditions; or (ix) a more-likely-than-not expectation that
    a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit
    will be sold or disposed of, could require an interim assessment
    for some or all of the reporting units before the next required
    annual assessment. In the event of significant adverse changes
    of the nature described above, we might have to recognize a
    non-cash impairment of goodwill, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and
    results of operations.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    Product
    liability claims or regulatory actions could adversely affect
    our financial results or harm our reputation or the value of our
    brands.


 


    Claims for losses or injuries purportedly caused by some of our
    products arise in the ordinary course of our business. In
    addition to the risk of substantial monetary judgments, product
    liability claims or regulatory actions could result in negative
    publicity that could harm our reputation in the marketplace or
    adversely impact the value of our brands or our ability to sell
    our products in certain jurisdictions. We could also be required
    to recall possibly defective products, which could result in
    adverse publicity and significant expenses. Although we maintain
    product liability insurance coverage, potential product
    liability claims could be excluded or exceed coverage limits
    under the terms of our insurance policies or could result in
    increased costs for such coverage.


 



    Our
    subsidiaries hold substantially all of our assets and conduct
    substantially all of our operations, and as a result we rely on
    distributions or advances from our subsidiaries.


 


    We conduct substantially all of our business through two direct
    wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, Inc. and Sealed Air
    Corporation (US). These two subsidiaries, directly and
    indirectly, own substantially all of the assets of our business
    and conduct operations themselves and through other subsidiaries
    around the globe. Therefore, we depend on distributions or
    advances from our subsidiaries to meet our debt service and
    other obligations and to pay dividends with respect to shares of
    our common stock. Contractual provisions, laws or regulations to
    which we or any of our subsidiaries may become subject, tax
    inefficiencies and the financial condition and operating
    requirements of subsidiaries may reduce funds available for
    service of our indebtedness, dividends, and general corporate
    purposes.



 



    Cautionary
    Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements


 


    The SEC encourages companies to disclose forward-looking
    statements so that investors can better understand a
    company’s future prospects and make informed investment
    decisions. Some of our statements in this report, in documents
    incorporated by reference into this report and in our future
    oral and written statements, may be forward-looking. These
    statements reflect our beliefs and expectations as to future
    events and trends affecting our business, our consolidated
    financial position and our results of operations. These
    forward-looking statements are based upon our current
    expectations concerning future events and discuss, among other
    things, anticipated future financial performance and future
    business plans. Forward-looking statements are identified by
    such words and phrases as “anticipates,”
    “assumes,” “believes,” “could be,”
    “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,”
    “may,” “plans to,” “will” and
    similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily
    subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside
    our control, that could cause actual results to differ
    materially from these statements.


 


    Except as required by the federal securities laws, we undertake
    no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement,
    whether as a result of new information, future events or
    otherwise.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B