Item 1A.                Risk
Factors

Introduction

Investors should carefully consider the risks
described below before making an investment decision. These are the most
significant factors that make investing in the Company risky; however, they are
not the only factors that should be considered in making an investment
decision.

This Annual Report on Form 10-K also
contains and may incorporate by reference from the Company’s Proxy Statement
for its 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, or from exhibits, forward-looking
statements that involve risks and uncertainties. See the “Cautionary Statement
Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” below. The Company’s actual results
could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking
statements as a result of many factors, including the risks faced by the
Company described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K
or in documents incorporated by reference in this report.

The Company’s business,
financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely
affected by any of these risks. The trading price of the Company’s securities
could decline due to any of these risks, and investors in the Company’s
securities may lose all or part of their investment.

Asbestos Litigation and Related Litigation

If the settlement
of the asbestos claims that the Company has agreed to is not implemented, the
Company will not be released from the various asbestos-related,
fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and indemnification claims made
against it arising from a 1998 transaction with W. R. Grace & Co.
Further, the Company is a defendant in a lawsuit seeking class action status
concerning the Company’s public disclosures regarding these asbestos-related
claims. The Company is also a defendant in a number of asbestos-related
actions in Canada arising from Grace’s activities in Canada prior to 1998.

On November 27, 2002, the Company reached an
agreement in principle with the Official Committee of Asbestos Personal Injury
Claimants and the Official Committee of Asbestos Property Damage Claimants
appointed to represent asbestos claimants in the W. R. Grace & Co.
bankruptcy case to resolve 


 8 






all current and future
asbestos-related claims made against the Company and its affiliates. The
settlement will also resolve the fraudulent transfer claims and successor
liability claims, as well as indemnification claims by Fresenius Medical Care
Holdings, Inc. and affiliated companies in connection with the Cryovac
transaction. The Cryovac transaction was a multi-step transaction, completed on
March 31, 1998, which brought the Cryovac packaging business and the
former Sealed Air Corporation’s business under the common ownership of the
Company. The parties to the agreement in principle signed a definitive
settlement agreement as of November 10, 2003 consistent with the terms of
the agreement in principle. On June 27, 2005, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court
for the District of Delaware, where the Grace bankruptcy case is pending,
signed an order approving the definitive settlement agreement. Although Grace
is not a party to the settlement agreement, under the terms of the order, Grace
is directed to comply with the settlement agreement subject to limited
exceptions. If the settlement agreement does not become effective, either
because Grace fails to emerge from bankruptcy or because Grace does not emerge
from bankruptcy with a plan of reorganization that is consistent with the terms
of the settlement agreement, then the Company will not be released from the
various asbestos-related, fraudulent transfer, successor liability, and
indemnification claims made against the Company and its affiliates noted above,
and all of these claims would remain pending and would have to be resolved
through other means, such as through agreement on alternative settlement terms
or trials. In that case, the Company could face liabilities that are
significantly different from its obligations under the settlement agreement.
The Company cannot estimate at this time what those differences or their
magnitude may be. In the event these liabilities are materially larger than the
current existing obligations, they could have a material adverse effect on the
Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Although Grace filed a
proposed plan of reorganization with the bankruptcy Court in January 2005,
the Company cannot predict when a final plan of reorganization will become
effective or whether the final plan will be consistent with the terms of the
settlement agreement.

The Company is a defendant in the case of Senn v. Hickey, et al. (Case No. 03-CV-4372)
in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey (Newark). This
lawsuit seeks class action status on behalf of all persons who purchased or
otherwise acquired securities of the Company during the period from March 27,
2000 through July 30, 2002. The lawsuit names the Company and five current
and former officers and directors of the Company as defendants. One of these
individuals and the Company remain as defendants after a partial grant of the
defendants’ motion to dismiss the action. The plaintiff’s principal allegations
against the defendants are that during the above period the defendants
materially misled the investing public, artificially inflated the price of the
Company’s common stock by publicly issuing false and misleading statements and
violated U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, by failing to
properly account and accrue for the Company’s contingent liability for asbestos
claims arising from past operations of Grace. The plaintiffs seek compensatory
damages and other relief. If the Court determines that the Company is liable in
this case, the Company could be required to pay substantial damages, which the
Company cannot estimate at this time and which could have a material adverse effect
on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. On October 3,
2006, plaintiff filed a motion to certify a class of all persons who purchased
or otherwise acquired the securities of the Company during the period from March 27,
2000 through July 30, 2002. On November 22,
2006, plaintiff filed an amended motion for class certification, seeking to
withdraw as a class representative and the substitution of a new class
representative, the State of Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System. Discovery concerning class certification and the merits is ongoing.

Since November 2004, the Company and specified
subsidiaries have been named as defendants in a number of cases, including a
number of putative class actions, brought in Canada as a result of Grace’s
alleged marketing, manufacturing or distributing of asbestos or asbestos-containing
products in Canada prior to the Cryovac Transaction. Grace has agreed to defend
and indemnify the Company and its subsidiaries in these cases. The Canadian
cases are currently stayed, and Grace’s proposed plan of reorganization
provides for payment of these claims and enforcement of the plan of
reorganization in the Canadian courts. However, if Grace’s final plan does not
make the same provisions or if the Canadian courts refuse to enforce Grace’s
final plan in the Canadian courts, and if in addition Grace is unwilling or 


 9 






unable to defend and
indemnify the Company and its subsidiaries in these cases, then the Company
could be required to pay substantial damages, which the Company cannot estimate
at this time and which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition and results of operations.

For further information
concerning these matters, see Note 16, “Commitments and Contingencies,” of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which is contained in Item
8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, under
“Asbestos Settlement and Related Costs,” “Cryovac Transaction,” and
“Contingencies Related to the Cryovac Transaction.”

Raw Materials and Energy

Raw material
pricing, availability and allocation by suppliers as well as other energy-related
costs may negatively impact the Company’s results of operations, including its
profit margins.

The Company uses petrochemical-based
raw materials to manufacture many of its food and protective packaging
products. During most of 2006 petrochemical-based raw material and other
energy-related costs increased, with oil futures setting a record high.
This negatively impacted the Company’s profit margins. Continued increases in
market demand for petrochemical-based raw materials and energy could increase
costs for the Company. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, as well as
political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the
production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and
petrochemical suppliers in the future. These factors could lead to increased
prices for the Company’s raw materials, curtailment of supplies and allocation
of raw materials by the Company’s suppliers, which could reduce revenues and
profit margins and harm relations with the Company’s customers and which could
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results
of operations.

Animal and Food-Related Health Issues

The effects of
animal and food-related health issues such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy,
also known as “mad cow” disease, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza or
“bird-flu,” as well as other health issues affecting the food industry, may
lead to decreased revenues for the Company.

The Company manufactures
and sells food packaging products, among other products. Various health issues
affecting the food industry have in the past and may in the future have a
negative effect on the sales of food packaging products. During 2006,
additional cases of mad cow disease were confirmed and incidents of bird flu
have continued to surface in various countries. Outbreaks of animal diseases
such as mad cow or foot-and-mouth disease, for example, may lead governments to
restrict exports and imports of potentially affected animals and food products,
leading to decreased demand for the Company’s products and possibly also to the
culling or slaughter of significant numbers of the animal population otherwise
intended for food supply. Also, consumers may change their eating habits as a
result of perceived problems with certain types of food. These restrictions and
changes may lead to reduced sales of food packaging products by the Company,
which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition
and results of operations.

Global Operations

The global nature
of the Company’s operations in the United States and in fifty foreign countries
exposes it to numerous risks that could materially adversely affect its
financial condition and results of operations.


 10










The Company operates in the United States and in 50
other countries, and its products are distributed in those countries as well as
in other parts of the world. The Company continues to expand its global
presence as net sales outside the United States in 2006 made up approximately
52% of the Company’s total net sales. Additionally the Company has 73
manufacturing facilities and approximately 10,100 employees located outside the
United States.

As a result of its global operations, the Company is
exposed to economic, political, business and market conditions in the
geographic areas in which it conducts business. Changes in domestic or foreign
laws, rules or regulations (such as the REACH legislation discussed above
in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under
“Environmental Matters”), or governmental or agency actions can negatively
affect the Company’s ability to carry on its business. Governments may impose
restrictive or protective import/export requirements as well as other trade
measures that may have a negative impact on the Company. Some of the countries
in which the Company’s subsidiaries operate have significantly different laws
on the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights. As a global
entity, the Company may also have greater exposure to the acts and effects of
war or terrorism.

The Company is exposed to
market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Company
may use financial instruments from time to time to manage exposure to foreign
exchange rate fluctuations, which use exposes the Company to counterparty
credit risk for nonperformance. Additionally, some of the Company’s
subsidiaries may operate in countries that have highly inflationary economies.

Global Manufacturing Strategy

The Company has
begun the first phase of a new global manufacturing strategy. The costs of the
global manufacturing strategy could exceed the benefits if market forces or
other factors negatively impact the execution and fulfillment of the strategy.

The Company has begun the
first phase of a new global manufacturing strategy. This strategy includes an
expansion of the Company’s global production capabilities in developing markets
around the world, as well as a realignment of its existing production into
manufacturing centers of excellence. The goal of this multi-year program is to
expand capacity in growing markets in developing countries, further improve the
Company’s operating efficiencies, lower its overall cost structure and
implement new technologies more effectively. There are risks inherent in the
undertaking of such a program, including the stability and sustainability of
developing markets, shifts in customer preferences, competitive forces and technologies,
cost overruns and unanticipated consequences, any of which could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of
operations.

Reliance on Subsidiaries

The Company’s
subsidiaries hold substantially all of its assets and liabilities and conduct
substantially all of its operations, and as a result the Company relies on
distributions or advances from its subsidiaries.

The Company conducts
substantially all of its business through two direct wholly-owned
subsidiaries, Cryovac, Inc. and Sealed Air Corporation (US). These two
subsidiaries directly and indirectly own substantially all of the assets of the
Company’s business and conduct operations themselves and through other
subsidiaries around the globe. Therefore, the Company depends on distributions
or advances from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other
obligations and to pay dividends with respect to shares of its common stock.
Contractual provisions, laws or regulations to which the Company or any of its
subsidiaries may become subject, as well its subsidiaries’ financial condition
and operating requirements, may reduce funds available for service of its
indebtedness, dividends, and general corporate purposes.


 11 






Volatility of Stock Price, Volume Sales and Large
Holdings

The price of the
Company’s common stock historically has experienced significant price and
volume fluctuations, which may make it difficult for investors to resell the
common stock, and the sale of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock
could adversely affect the price of the common stock. One shareholder has been
identified as having sole voting and dispositive power with respect to
28,916,696 shares, or approximately 35.9%, of the Company’s common stock, and
another shareholder has been identified as having sole dispositive power with
respect to 12,710,000 shares, or approximately 15.8%, of the Company’s common
stock.

The market price of the Company’s common stock
historically has experienced and may continue to experience significant price
and volume fluctuations similar to those experienced by the broader stock
market in recent years. In addition, the Company’s announcements of its
quarterly operating results, future developments relating to the W. R. Grace
bankruptcy, additional asbestos or other litigation against the Company, the
effects of animal and food-related health issues, spikes in raw material and
energy-related costs, changes in general conditions in the economy or the
financial markets and other developments affecting the Company, its affiliates
or its competitors could cause the market price of the common stock to
fluctuate substantially.

The sale of substantial amounts of the Company’s
common stock could adversely affect its price. According to a Schedule 13G/A
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, dated as of December 31,
2006, Davis Selected Advisers, L.P. reported sole voting and dispositive power
with respect to 28,916,696 shares, or approximately 35.9%, of the outstanding
shares of the Company’s common stock, and according to a Schedule 13G/A
filed with the SEC, dated as of February 7, 2007, Capital Research and
Management Company reported sole dispositive power with respect to 12,710,000
shares, or approximately 15.8%, of the Company’s outstanding common stock. In
addition, as of December 31, 2006, 2,072,874 shares of common stock were
reserved for issuance under the Company’s contingent stock plan and directors’
stock plan. Issuance of such reserved shares would cause dilution of stock
holdings. Moreover, as of December 31, 2006, nine million shares of the
Company’s common stock were reserved for issuance pursuant to the settlement of
the asbestos litigation upon the effectiveness of a plan of reorganization in
the bankruptcy of W. R. Grace. The sale or the availability for sale of a large
number of shares of the Company’s common stock in the public market could
adversely affect the price of the common stock.

While the Schedules 13G/A
filed by Davis Selected Advisers and Capital Research and Management indicate
that the referenced shares of the Company’s common stock were not acquired for
the purpose of changing or influencing the control of the Company, if either
stockholder were to change its purpose of holding the Company’s common stock
from investment to attempting to influence the management of the Company, these
concentrations of the Company’s common stock could potentially negatively
impact the Company and the price of its common stock.

Cautionary
Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements

Some of the Company’s statements in this report, in
documents incorporated by reference into this report and in the Company’s
future oral and written statements, may be forward-looking. These
statements reflect the Company’s beliefs and expectations as to future events
and trends affecting the Company’s business, its financial condition and its
results of operations. These forward-looking statements are based upon
the Company’s current expectations concerning future events and discuss, among
other things, anticipated future performance and future business plans. Forward-looking
statements are identified by such words and phrases as “anticipates,” “believes,”
“could be,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans to,” “will” and similar
expressions. Forward-looking statements are necessarily subject to risks
and uncertainties, many of which are outside the control of the Company, that could
cause actual results to differ materially from these statements.


 12 






In addition to the most
significant risk factors described above, the following are important factors
that the Company believes could cause actual results to differ materially from
those in the Company’s forward-looking statements:

·       legal
and environmental proceedings, claims and matters involving the Company;

·       factors
affecting the customers, industries and markets that use the Company’s
packaging materials and systems;

·       competitive
factors;

·       changes
in the Company’s relationships with customers and suppliers;

·       changes
in tax rates, laws and regulations;

·       changes
in interest rates, credit availability and ratings;

·       the
Company’s ability to hire, develop and retain talented employees worldwide;

·       the
Company’s development and commercialization of successful new products;

·       the
Company’s accomplishments in entering new markets and acquiring and integrating
new businesses;

·       the
Company’s access to financing and other sources of capital;

·       the
costs and success of the Company’s key information systems projects;

·       disruptions
to data or voice networks;

·       the
magnitude and timing of the Company’s capital expenditures and the ultimate
value generated from those expenditures;

·       the
costs and results of any exit and disposal activities and restructuring
programs that the Company may undertake;

·       the
Company’s working capital management proficiency;

·       the
effect on the Company of new pronouncements by regulatory and accounting
authorities;

·       natural
disasters, health crises, epidemics and pandemics; and

·       the
effects of potential federal asbestos legislation, if enacted.

Except as required by the
federal securities laws, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly
update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of
new information, future events or otherwise.

Item 1B