ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

     
Described below and elsewhere in this report and
other documents that we file from time to time with the
Securities and Exchange Commission are risks, uncertainties and
other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of
operation and financial condition. The following are some of the
more important of these risks, uncertainties and other factors.
Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that are
currently not known to us or we believe are not currently
material may also adversely affect our business, results of
operation and financial condition.



Adverse changes in general business
conditions in the United States and worldwide may adversely
affect our results of operations and financial
condition.

     
Adverse changes in general business conditions in
the United States and worldwide may reduce the demand for some
of our products and adversely affect our results of operations
and financial condition. Higher inflation rates, interest rates,
tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare
costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and
regulations, and other economic factors that adversely affect
the demand for our paint, coatings and related products could
adversely affect our results of operations and financial
condition.



Economic downturns in cyclical segments of
the economy may reduce the demand for some of our products and
adversely affect our sales and earnings.

     
Portions of our business involve the sale of
paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy
that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to
construction, housing and manufacturing. Our sales to these
segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer
and business spending in these segments. During economic
downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business
discretionary spending may decrease. This decrease in spending
will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and
adversely affect our sales and earnings.



Increases in the cost of raw materials and
energy may adversely affect our earnings.

     
We purchase raw materials and energy for use in
the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products.
Factors such as adverse weather conditions, including
hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and
fuel supplies and increase our costs. Although raw materials and
energy supplies are generally available from various sources in
sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the
cost of raw materials and energy may have an adverse effect on
our earnings in the event we are unable to offset these costs by
sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the
prices of our products. Many of our paint and coatings products
utilize titanium dioxide, which is widely used as a white
pigment for paint. During 2005, we experienced significant cost
increases in energy and raw materials, particularly titanium
dioxide and petroleum-based materials, which adversely impacted
our earnings.


6




Table of Contents


Although we have an extensive customer
base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely
affect our sales and earnings.

     
We have a large and varied customer base due to
our extensive distribution network. During 2005, no individual
customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of
our sales. However, we have some customers that, individually,
purchase a large amount of products from us. Although our broad
distribution channels would help to minimize the impact of the
loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large
customers could have an adverse effect on our sales and earnings.



Adverse weather conditions may reduce the
demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect
on our sales.

     
From time to time, adverse weather conditions in
certain parts of the United States have had an adverse effect on
our sales of paint, coatings and related products. For example,
unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the exterior
painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our
exterior paint products.



Increased competition may reduce our sales
and earnings performance.

     
We face substantial competition from many
international, national, regional and local competitors of
various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our
paint, coatings and related products. Some of our competitors
are larger than us and have greater financial resources to
compete. Other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer
more specialized products. Technology, product quality, product
innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise,
distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors
for our business. Competition in any of these areas may reduce
our sales and adversely affect our earnings by resulting in
decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of
manufacturing, distributing and selling our products.



Our operating results and financial
condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully
integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing
operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire
do not meet our expectations.

     
We have historically made strategic acquisitions
of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely
acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long
term growth strategy. These acquisitions involve significant
challenges and risks. In the event that we do not successfully
integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as
to realize the expected return on our investment, our operating
results and financial condition could be adversely affected.



Risks and uncertainties associated with our
expansion into and our operations in China, South America and
other foreign markets could adversely affect our sales and
earnings.

     
Net external sales of our consolidated foreign
subsidiaries totaled approximately $747 million in 2005, or
10.4% of our total consolidated net sales. Sales outside of the
United States make up an important part of our current business
and future strategic plans. Our sales and earnings could be
adversely affected by a variety of international factors,
including general economic conditions, inflation rates,
recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign investment
and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints,
civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign
operations and other external economic and political factors.
Our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties
relating to these factors could adversely affect our sales and
earnings.


     
In many foreign countries, it is acceptable to
engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from
engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us,
such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we have
internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure
compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance
that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of
these regulations. Any violation could cause an adverse effect
on our results of operations.


7




Table of Contents


Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates could adversely affect our sales and
earnings.

     
Because of our international operations, we are
exposed to market risk associated with interest rates and value
changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our
business. Historically, our reported net sales and net earnings
have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the British pound,
the Argentine peso, the Brazilian real, the Chilean peso, the
Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar.
While we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency
market risk as part of our overall financial risk management
policy, we believe we may experience continuing losses from
foreign currency translation, and such losses could adversely
affect our sales and earnings.



We are required to comply with increasingly
stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and
regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may
adversely affect our earnings.

     
Our operations are subject to various federal,
state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws
and regulations not only govern our current operations and
products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past
operations. We expect environmental laws and regulations to
impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and
us in the future. Our costs to comply with these laws and
regulations may increase as these requirements become more
stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely
affect our earnings.



We are involved with environmental
investigation and remediation activities at some of our current
and former sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for
which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we
have accrued.

     
We are involved with environmental investigation
and remediation activities at some of our current and former
sites and a number of third-party sites. We accrue for estimated
costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites
for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and
when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry
standards and professional judgment. These estimated costs are
based on currently available facts regarding each site. We
continuously assess our potential liability for investigation
and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related
accruals as information becomes available upon which more
accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. Due to the
uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and
remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that
are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an
adverse affect on our earnings.



The nature, cost, quantity and outcome of
pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from
the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint,
could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, liquidity and financial condition.

     
In the course of our business, we are subject to
a variety of claims and lawsuits, including litigation relating
to product liability and warranty, personal injury,
environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual
and antitrust claims. We accrue for these contingencies
consistent with the policy stated on page 30 of our 2005
Annual Report under the caption entitled “Contingent
Liabilities” of “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
However, because litigation is inherently subject to many
uncertainties and the ultimate result of any present or future
litigation is unpredictable, our ultimate liability may result
in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued.
In the event that our loss contingency is ultimately determined
to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording
of the liability may result in a material impact on net income
for the annual or interim period during which such liability is
accrued. Additionally, due to the uncertainties involved, any
potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising
out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.


     
Our past operations included the manufacture and
sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. Along with other
companies, we are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings,
including purported class actions, separate actions brought by
the State of Rhode Island, and actions brought by various
counties, cities, school districts and other government-related
entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments
and lead-based paints. We are also a defendant in legal
proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of
non-lead-based paints,


8




Table of Contents


which seek recovery based upon various legal
theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential
exposure to lead during surface preparation when using
non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with
lead-based paint. We expect that additional lead pigment and
lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the
future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking
similar or different types of damages and relief.



     
During September 2002, a jury trial commenced in
the first phase of the action brought by the State of Rhode
Island against us and the other defendants. The sole issue
before the court in this first phase was whether lead pigment in
paint constitutes a public nuisance under Rhode Island law. In
October 2002, the court declared a mistrial as the jury, which
was split four to two in favor of the defendants, was unable to
reach a unanimous decision.


     
The State of Rhode Island retried the case and on
February 22, 2006, the jury returned a verdict, finding
that (1) the cumulative presence of lead pigment in paints
and coatings on buildings in the State of Rhode Island
constitutes a public nuisance, (ii) we, along with two
other defendants, caused or substantially contributed to the
creation of the public nuisance, and (iii) we and two other
defendants should be ordered to abate the public nuisance. The
Court will determine the scope of the abatement remedy. Various
other matters remain before the Court. We intend to appeal the
jury’s verdict.


     
This was the first legal proceeding against us to
go to trial relating to the lead pigment and lead-based paint
litigation. We believe it is possible that additional legal
proceedings could be scheduled for trial in 2006 and in
subsequent years in other jurisdictions.


     
Litigation is inherently subject to many
uncertainties. Adverse court rulings, such as the Rhode Island
jury verdict and the Wisconsin State Supreme Court’s
determination in July 2005 that Wisconsin’s risk
contribution theory applies to the lead pigment litigation, or
determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect
the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and
encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims
and proceedings. In addition, from time to time, various
legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted or
proposed to impose obligations on present and former
manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting
asserted health concerns associated with such products and to
overturn court decisions in which we and other manufacturers
have been successful. We cannot reasonably determine the impact
that the State of Rhode Island decision and determination of
liability will have on the number or nature of present or future
claims and proceedings against us.


     
Due to the uncertainties involved, management is
unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based
paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims
and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or
administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against
us. In addition, management cannot reasonably determine the
scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related
to such litigation, or any such legislation and regulations. We
have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. Any potential
liability that may result from such litigation or such
legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. In
the event any significant liability is determined to be
attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of
the liability may result in a material impact on net income for
the annual or interim period during which such liability is
accrued. Additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with
the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other
remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential
liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of
such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. An
estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations,
liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the
aforementioned uncertainties.


     
We discuss this litigation in more detail on
pages 31 and 32 of our 2005 Annual Report under the caption
entitled “Litigation” of “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and in Note 18 of the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on page 72 of our 2005
Annual Report.


9



Table of Contents


The costs or potential liability ultimately
determined to be attributable to us through our ownership of
Life Shield could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations, liquidity or financial condition.

     
We own a 25% interest in Life Shield Engineered
Systems, LLC and are obligated to acquire an additional 24%
interest in Life Shield in October 2007. Life Shield is a
start-up company that develops and manufactures blast and
fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant systems. The
blast and fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant
systems create a potentially higher level of product liability
for us than is normally associated with coatings and related
products we manufacture, distribute and sell. Depending upon the
extent of any potential liability ultimately determined to be
attributable to us relating to Life Shield, such liability could
have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity
and financial condition. We discuss the risks and uncertainties
relating to our ownership of Life Shield in more detail on
page 30 of our 2005 Annual Report under the caption
entitled “Contingent Liabilities” of
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.”



ITEM 1B