Item 1A
    



 



    Item 1A.    Risk
    Factors.


 


    The following discussion of risk factors contains
    “forward-looking statements,” which are discussed
    immediately following Item 7A. of this
    Form 10-K.
    These risk factors may be important to understanding any
    statement in this
    Form 10-K
    or elsewhere. The following information should be read in
    conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and
    the consolidated financial statements and related notes included
    in this
    Form 10-K.


 


    We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below,
    as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the
    SEC and the other information included or incorporated by
    reference in
    Form 10-K.
    If any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this
    Form 10-K
    were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results
    of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially
    adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our
    common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of
    your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may
    also materially adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Demand
    for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on
    the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A
    substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could
    result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on
    the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the
    exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas
    reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on the
    industry’s view of future oil and natural gas prices and
    are sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic
    growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural
    gas. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas
    prices could also result in project modifications, delays or
    cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or
    nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could
    have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and
    cash flows.





    The prices for oil and natural gas have historically been
    volatile and may be affected by a variety of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by worldwide
    population growth, economic growth rates and general economic
    and business conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
    (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels for oil;




 



     
        • 

    
    oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of excess production capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    political and economic uncertainty and sociopolitical unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production
    activity;




 



     
        • 

    
    the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;




 



     
        • 

    
    technological advances affecting energy consumption; and




 



     
        • 

    
    weather conditions.





 


    The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic
    downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand
    for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we
    charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could
    result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.




    
    7
    



Table of Contents




    Part I, Item 1A
    

 




    A
    significant portion of our revenue is derived from our
    non-United
    States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing
    business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we
    operate.


 


    Our
    non-United
    States operations accounted for approximately 76% of our
    consolidated revenue in 2010, 84% in 2009 and 78% in 2008.
    Operations in countries other than the United States are subject
    to various risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other
    governmental actions;




 



     
        • 

    
    social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict;




 



     
        • 

    
    confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    deprivation of contract rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the United States or
    other countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions under the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act or similar legislation in other countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange controls;




 



     
        • 

    
    inflation; and




 



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations.





 


    In addition, we are subject to risks associated with our
    operations in countries, including Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba,
    that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other
    restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments
    or organizations. United States law enforcement authorities are
    currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an
    associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in
    certain of these countries. Additionally, in 2009 prior to its
    merger with Schlumberger, Smith received an administrative
    subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in
    certain countries that are subject to United States trade and
    economic sanctions. If any of the risks described above
    materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in
    criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could
    reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.





    We are also subject to risks related to investment in our common
    stock in connection with certain US state divestment or
    investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with
    operations in these countries, and similar actions by some
    private investors, which could adversely affect the market price
    of our common stock.


 



    Our
    merger with Smith will continue to be dilutive to our earnings
    per share in the near term, which may negatively affect the
    market price of our common stock.


 


    Our merger with Smith will continue to be dilutive to earnings
    per share in the near term. Future events and conditions could
    decrease or delay any accretion, result in dilution or cause
    greater dilution than is currently expected, including adverse
    changes in:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    energy market conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    commodity prices for oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids;




 



     
        • 

    
    production levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    reserve levels;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    competitive conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    laws and regulations affecting the energy business;




 



     
        • 

    
    capital expenditure obligations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    general economic conditions.







    
    8
    



Table of Contents




    Part I, Item 1A
    

 


 


    Any dilution of, or decrease or delay of any accretion to, our
    earnings per share could cause the price of our common stock to
    decline.


 



    Our
    offshore oil and gas operations could be adversely impacted by
    the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig accident and resulting oil
    spill; changes in and compliance with restrictions or
    regulations on offshore drilling in the US Gulf of Mexico and in
    other areas around the world may adversely affect our business
    and operating results.


 


    On April 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard
    the semisubmersible drilling rig Deepwater Horizon, owned
    by Transocean Ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of BP plc.
    As a result of the incident and related oil spill, the Secretary
    of the US Department of the Interior directed the Bureau of
    Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement
    (“BOEMRE”) to issue a suspension, until
    November 30, 2010, of drilling activities for specified
    drilling configurations and technologies. Although this
    moratorium was lifted on October 12, 2010, effective
    immediately, we cannot predict with certainty when drilling
    operations will fully resume in the US Gulf of Mexico. The
    BOEMRE has also issued new guidelines and regulations regarding
    safety, environmental matters, drilling equipment and
    decommissioning applicable to drilling in the US Gulf of Mexico,
    and may take other additional steps that could increase the
    costs of exploration and production, reduce the area of
    operations and result in permitting delays.





    At this time, we cannot predict with any certainty what further
    impact, if any, the Deepwater Horizon incident may have
    on the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and
    development activity, or on the cost or availability of
    insurance coverage to cover the risks of such operations.
    Ongoing effects of and delays from the lifted suspension of
    drilling activity in the US Gulf of Mexico, or the enactment of
    new or stricter regulations in the United States and other
    countries where we operate, could materially adversely affect
    our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.


 



    Environmental
    compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and
    cash available for operations.


 


    We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations
    relating to importation and use of hazardous materials,
    radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection,
    including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water
    discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to
    continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with
    environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements
    of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex,
    stringent and expensive to implement. These laws may provide for
    “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or
    threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render
    a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault
    on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for
    joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and
    releases of hazardous substances.





    We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our
    operations. In addition, many of our current and former
    properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes.
    Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material
    liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of
    contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury
    or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases
    of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of
    existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the
    discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition
    of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs
    or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could
    reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. We
    believe we are currently in substantial compliance with
    environmental laws and regulations.


 



    We could
    be subject to substantial liability claims, which would
    adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 


    Certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services,
    such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems,
    subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and
    explosives and well completion systems, are used in hostile
    environments, such as exploration, development and production
    applications. An accident or a failure of a product could cause
    personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or
    the environment, and suspension of operations. Our insurance may
    not protect us against liability for some kinds of events,
    including events involving pollution, or against losses
    resulting from business interruption. Moreover, in the future we
    may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage
    or policy limits that we deem adequate. Substantial claims made
    under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. Any
    future damages caused by our products that are not covered by
    insurance, or





    
    9
    



Table of Contents




    Part I, Item 1A
    

 



    are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial
    deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    If we are
    unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely
    affect any competitive advantage we hold.


 


    If we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology
    or deliver it to our clients in the form of service offerings in
    a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we
    serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Limitations
    on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights,
    including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and
    any competitive advantage we hold.


 


    Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to
    produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection,
    have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. Our
    business may be adversely affected if our patents are
    unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not
    sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications
    are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected.
    Our competitors may be able to develop technology independently
    that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or
    gaining access to our trade secrets.


 



    We may be
    subject to litigation if another party claims that we have
    infringed upon its intellectual property rights.


 


    The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we
    use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual
    property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result
    in significant legal and other costs and may distract management
    from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses
    from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a
    license were not available we might not be able to continue
    providing a particular service or product, which could adversely
    affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies
    would increase our costs.


 



    Failure
    to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede
    our operations.


 


    We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide
    technical services and support for our business. Competition for
    the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as
    activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become
    more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. This
    could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our
    operations.


 



    Severe
    weather conditions may affect our operations.


 


    Our business may be materially affected by severe weather
    conditions in areas where we operate. This may entail the
    evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In addition,
    if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures,
    this may result in a suspension of activities until the
    platforms or structures have been repaired. Any of these events
    could adversely affect our financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    Demand
    for our products and services could be reduced or eliminated by
    governmental regulation or a change in the law.


 


    International, national, and state governments and agencies are
    currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related
    legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting
    greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. In the United
    States, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) is
    taking steps to require monitoring and reporting of GHG
    emissions and to regulate GHGs as pollutants under the Clean Air
    Act (“CAA”). The EPA’s “Mandatory Reporting
    of Greenhouse Gases” rule established a comprehensive
    scheme of regulations that require monitoring and reporting of
    GHG emissions that began in 2010. Furthermore, the EPA recently
    proposed additional GHG reporting rules specifically for the oil
    and gas industry. The EPA has also published a final rule, the
    “Endangerment Finding,” finding that GHGs in the
    atmosphere endanger public health and welfare, and that
    emissions of GHGs from mobile sources cause or





    
    10
    



Table of Contents




    Part I, Item 1A
    

 



    contribute to the GHG pollution. Following issuance of the
    Endangerment Finding, the EPA promulgated final motor vehicle
    GHG emission standards on April 1, 2010. The EPA has
    asserted that the final motor vehicle GHG emission standards
    will trigger construction and operating permit requirements for
    stationary sources. In addition, climate change legislation is
    pending in the United States Congress. These developments may
    curtail production and demand for fossil fuels such as oil and
    gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus
    adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in
    turn adversely affect future results of operations.
    Additionally, legislation to reduce greenhouse gases may have an
    adverse effect on our operations, including payment of
    additional costs due to carbon emissions. Higher carbon emission
    activities include transportation, including marine vessels,
    cement production (by third party suppliers), and electricity
    generation (by third party suppliers) as well as other
    activities. Finally, our business could be negatively affected
    by climate change related physical changes or changes in weather
    patterns, which could result in damages to or loss of our
    physical assets, impacts to our ability to conduct operations
    and/or
    disruption of our customers’ operations.





    Legislation may be introduced in the United States Congress that
    would authorize the EPA to regulate hydraulic fracturing. In
    addition, a number of states are evaluating the adoption of
    legislation or regulations governing hydraulic fracturing. Such
    legislation or regulations could reduce demand for pressure
    pumping services. If federal
    and/or state
    legislation or regulations were enacted, it could adversely
    affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows. We are unable to predict whether the proposed
    legislation, regulations, or any other proposals will ultimately
    be enacted.




    
    11
    



Table of Contents





    Part I, Item 1B