Item 1A     <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">  A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-United States operations,
which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 80 countries in which we operate.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">Our non-United States operations accounted for approximately 72% of our consolidated revenue in 2006, 75% in 2005 and 74% in 2004. Operations in countries other than the
United States are subject to various risks, including:   


 
·
 
 unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas;  <FONT
SIZE="1"> 


 
·
 
 exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions;  <FONT
SIZE="1"> 


 
·
 
 social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict;  <FONT
SIZE="1"> 


 
·
 
 confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;   


 
·
 
 deprivation of contract rights;   


 
·
 
 trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the United States or other countries;  <FONT
SIZE="1"> 


 
·
 
 restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;   


 
·
 
 exchange controls;   


 
·
 
 inflation; and   


 
·
 
 currency fluctuations and devaluations.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:2%">In addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba, which are subject to trade and
economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations.  The occurrence of any of the
risks described above could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.    <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental
protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical
requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and stringent. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability
can render a party liable for damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. 
We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are or have been used for
industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures
to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could
require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations.
  
 7 




Table of Contents

 Part I, Item 1A     <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">  We could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our
results and financial condition.    Certain equipment used in the delivery
of oilfield services, such as directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and
production applications. An accident or a failure of a product can cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability for
some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. Moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate.
Substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to increase. Any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could reduce
our earnings and our cash available for operations.    Our ability to maintain
technology leadership in the form of services and products could affect any competitive advantage we hold.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">If we are unable to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver them to our clients in the form of services and products in a timely and cost-competitive manner
in the various markets we serve, it could materially reduce our operating revenue and net income.    <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have
been granted United States patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. Our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our
technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our
trade secrets.    We may be subject to litigation if another party claims that
we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights.    The tools,
techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management
from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular product or service, which would
reduce our operating revenue. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs.    <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations.    <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel required for our businesses
intensifies as activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. This could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">  Severe weather conditions may affect our operations  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  Our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in certain areas where
we operate. This may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been
repaired. Any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our operating revenue.   
 8 




Table of Contents

 Part I, Item 1B