Item 1A.  Risk Factors. The following discussion of risk factors contains important information for the understanding our “forward-looking statements,” which are discussed immediately following Item 7A. of this Form 10-K and elsewhere. These risk factors should also be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K. We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials that we file with the SEC and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: —demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions; —the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels for oil; —oil and gas production levels by non-OPEC countries; —the level of excess production capacity; —political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest; —the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity; —access to potential resources; —governmental policies and subsidies; —the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; —technological advances affecting energy consumption; and —weather conditions. The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-United States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the approximately 85 countries in which we operate. Our non-United States operations accounted for approximately 73% of our consolidated revenue in 2013, 72% in 2012 and 71% in 2011. Operations in countries other than the United States are subject to various risks, including: —political and economic conditions in certain areas; —exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions; —social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; —confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; —deprivation of contract rights; —trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the United States or other countries; —restrictions under the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar legislation in other countries; —restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital; 7

—currency exchange controls; —inflation; and —currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations. In addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including Sudan and Cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. United States law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our historical operations in countries that are subject to United States trade and economic sanctions. If any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. We are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain US state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. During 2013, certain non-US subsidiaries of Schlumberger provided oilfield services to the National Iranian Oil Company and certain of its affiliates (“NIOC”). Schlumberger’s 2013 revenue attributable to this activity was $102 million, which resulted in a net loss of $69 million. During the second quarter of 2013, Schlumberger completed the wind down of its service operations in Iran. As a result, Schlumberger has reclassified the results of this business as a discontinued operation. All prior periods have been restated accordingly. Schlumberger’s activity in Iran during 2013 included obtaining services from and engaging in other dealings with the government of Iran that were incidental to operating in Iran, and the expenses of which are reflected in the results disclosed above. These services and other dealings consisted of paying taxes, duties, license fees and other typical governmental charges, along with payments for utilities, transportation, hotel accommodations, facility rentals, telecommunications services, newspaper advertisements, recreational and fitness memberships, and the purchase of routine office and similar supplies from entities associated with the government of Iran. Collections of amounts owed to Schlumberger for services rendered in Iran were received in part by depository accounts held by two non-US subsidiaries of Schlumberger at a branch of Bank Saderat Iran (“Saderat”), and in part by a depositary account held by one of such non-US subsidiaries at Bank Tejarat (“Tejarat”) in Tehran. The accounts at Tejarat are also used in connection with payment of expenses incidental to collection of amounts owed to Schlumberger for prior services.  The accounts at Saderat are maintained solely for the deposit by NIOC of amounts owed to non-US subsidiaries of Schlumberger for prior services. One of the non-US subsidiaries also maintained a depository account at Bank Sarmayeh (“Sarmayeh”) which, together with the account at Tejarat, was maintained for the payment of expenses such as payroll expenses, rental payments and taxes. In addition, NIOC maintained bank accounts at Bank Melli Iran (“Melli”) through which it made payments to a non-US subsidiary of Schlumberger for services provided in Iran under letters of credit issued by Melli. Schlumberger maintains no bank accounts at Melli. Schlumberger has discontinued dealings with Melli and Sarmayeh, and anticipates that it will discontinue its dealings with  Saderat and Tejarat following the receipt of all amounts owed to Schlumberger for prior services rendered in Iran. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations. We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. These laws may provide for “strict liability” for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances. We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. 8

We could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The technical complexities of our operations are such that we are exposed to a wide range of significant health, safety and environmental risks. Our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. An accident involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. Our insurance may not protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law. Some international, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas emissions. Such legislation, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or to promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Some international, national and state governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs. Specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated, causing cracks in the target formation. Proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. Future hydraulic fracturing-related legislation or regulations could lead to operational delays and increased costs and, therefore, reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. If such additional international, national or state legislation or regulations are enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to maintain technology leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold. If we are unable to continue to develop and produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold. Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. Our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights. The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs. If a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals. This could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. Severe weather conditions may affect our operations. Our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. This may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 9

 Item 1B