ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

 Declines in the demand for office space in New York City, and in particular midtown Manhattan, as well as our Suburban markets, including Westchester County, Connecticut,
Northern New Jersey and Long Island, resulting from future weakness in the economic condition of such markets could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of
operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders.  

        Most of our commercial office properties, based on square footage, are located in midtown Manhattan. As a result, our business is
dependent on the condition of the New York City economy in general and the market for office space in midtown Manhattan in particular. Future weakness and uncertainty in the New York City economy
could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to
stockholders.
Similarly, future weakness and uncertainty in our suburban markets could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. 

 We may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire.  

        When our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. Even if tenants do
renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of tenant improvements and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the
terms in the expired leases. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 8.3 million and 2.0 million square feet, representing approximately 40.2% and 46.2% of the rentable square
feet, were scheduled to expire by December 31, 2017 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of December 31, 2012, these leases
had annualized escalated rent totaling approximately $422.8 million and $90.6 million, respectively. We also have leases with termination options beyond 2017. If we are unable to
promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders could be adversely affected. 

 The expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations.  

        Our interests in 673 First Avenue, 420 Lexington Avenue, 461 Fifth Avenue, 711 Third Avenue, 625 Madison Avenue, 1185 Avenue of the
Americas and 1080 Amsterdam Avenue, all in Manhattan, and 1055 Washington Avenue, Stamford, Connecticut, are through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land
and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. We have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 Fifth Avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. Unless we can
purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which
would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. The average remaining term of these long-term leases as of December 31, 2012, including our unilateral extension
rights on each of the properties, is approximately 72 years. Pursuant to the leasehold arrangement, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by
landlords with respect to our subtenants. We are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. Our share
of annualized cash rents of these properties at December 31, 2012 totaled approximately $257.4 million, or 22%, of our share of total Portfolio annualized cash rent. 

 Our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations.  

        Giving effect to leases in effect as of December 31, 2012 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture
properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage
leased, accounted for approximately 22.1% of our share of Portfolio annualized cash rent, with three tenants, Citigroup, Inc., Viacom International Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities
(USA) LLC accounting for approximately 6.4%, 6.9% and 6.0% of 

10




 

<A
HREF="#bg17301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

our
share of Portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. In addition, the financial services sector, which has been volatile in recent years, accounted for approximately 36% of our Portfolio
annualized cash rent as of December 31, 2012. This sector continues to experience turmoil. If current conditions in the industries in which our tenants are concentrated deteriorate, we may
experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents. Our business would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared
bankruptcy, are put into receivership or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. 

 Adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the Northeastern commercial office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders.  

        Our business may be affected by volatility in the financial and credit markets and other market or economic challenges experienced by
the U.S. economy or real estate industry as a whole, such as those experienced as a result of the economic downturn that began in the second half of 2007, which lead to a nationwide decline in demand
for office and retail space due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. Future periods of economic weakness could result in reduced access to credit and/or wider credit spreads.
Economic uncertainty, including concern about the stability of the markets generally, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to
borrowers, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. Our business may also be adversely affected by local economic
conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the Northeast, particularly in New York, Northern New Jersey and Connecticut. Because our portfolio consists
primarily of commercial office buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio) located principally in Manhattan, if economic conditions deteriorate, then our results of operations,
financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. Specifically, our business may be affected by the following
conditions:



•significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries which may decrease demand for our office
space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; 
•our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable may be limited, which could reduce our ability to
pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our
future interest expense; 
•reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt
financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and 
•reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants, which may impair our
ability to access capital. 


 We may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue.  


        We earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. Our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in
proportion to changes in our rental revenue. As a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. Similarly, our operating costs could increase while our revenues stay flat or
decline. In either such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders. 

11




 

<A
HREF="#bg17301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 We face risks associated with property acquisitions.  

        We may acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our
size and alter our capital structure. Our acquisition activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following
risks:



•even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing;  
•we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; 
•acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; 
•our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate;  
•we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties;  
•acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or
understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and 
•we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of
properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 


        We
may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted
against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to
properties acquired might include:



•claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties;  
•liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; 
•claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the
properties; and 
•liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. 


 Competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions.  


        We plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. We may face competition for acquisition
opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following
risks:



•an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate
investors, including publicly traded and privately held REITs, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts,
partnerships and individual investors; and 
•an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired
property. 


 We rely on six large properties for a significant portion of our revenue.  

        Six of our properties, 420 Lexington Avenue, 485 Lexington Avenue, One Madison Avenue, 1185 Avenue of the Americas, 1515 Broadway and
388-390 Greenwich Street, accounted for approximately 37.1% of our Portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized rent as of December 31, 2012.
Our 

12




 

<A
HREF="#bg17301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

revenue
and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. Additionally, our revenue and
cash available to service debt and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse
financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or filing for bankruptcy. 

 The continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow.  

        There may be a decrease in demand for space in New York City because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this
decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. In the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the New York Metropolitan area may choose to relocate their business to less populated,
lower-profile areas of the United States that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. This in turn could trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the
New York Metropolitan area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our
revenues could materially decline. 

 A terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly.  

        We maintain "all-risk" property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and
terrorism) within two property insurance portfolios and liability insurance. As of December 31, 2012, the first property portfolio maintains a blanket limit of $775.0 million per
occurrence, including terrorism, for the majority of the New York City properties in our portfolio. The second portfolio maintains a limit of $750.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism,
for some New York City
properties and the majority of the Suburban properties. Both policies expire on December 31, 2013. Each policy includes $100.0 million of flood coverage, with a lower sublimit for
locations in high hazard flood zones. We maintain liability policies which cover all our properties and provide limits of $201.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate per location. The
liability policies expire on October 31, 2013. Additional coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets. 

        In
October 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable REIT subsidiary, Belmont Insurance Company, or Belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the elements of our overall
insurance program. Belmont was formed in an effort to, among other reasons, stabilize to some extent the fluctuations of insurance market conditions. Belmont is licensed in New York to write
Terrorism, NBCR (nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological), General Liability, Environmental Liability and D&O coverage. 



•Terrorism: Belmont acts as a direct property insurer with respect to a portion of our terrorism coverage for the New York
City properties. Belmont has a terrorism coverage limit of $650.0 million in a layer in excess of $100.0 million. In addition, Belmont purchased reinsurance to reinsure the retained
insurable risk not otherwise covered under Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization and Extension Act of 2007, or TRIPRA, as detailed below. 
•NBCR: Belmont has acted as a direct insurer of NBCR and since December 31, 2011, has provided coverage up to
$750 million on our entire property portfolio for certified acts of terrorism above a program trigger of $100.0 million. Belmont is responsible for a small deductible and 15% of a loss,
with the remaining 85% covered by the Federal government. 
•General Liability: For the period commencing October 31, 2010, Belmont insures a retention on the general liability
insurance of $150,000 per occurrence and a $2.1 million annual aggregate stop loss limit. We have secured excess insurance to protect against catastrophic liability losses above the $150,000
retention. Prior policy years carried a higher per occurrence deductible and/or higher aggregate stop loss. Belmont has retained a third party administrator to manage all claims within the retention
and we anticipate that direct management of liability claims will improve loss experience and ultimately lower the 

13




 

<A
HREF="#bg17301a_main_toc">Table of Contents




cost
of liability insurance in future years. In addition, we have an umbrella liability policy of $200.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate on a per location basis. 



•Environmental Liability: Belmont insures a deductible of $975,000 per occurrence in excess of $25,000 on a
$25.0 million per occurrence and $30.0 million aggregate environmental liability policy covering the entire portfolio. 


        As
long as we own Belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of Belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. If we experience a
loss and Belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of Belmont's required payment. Therefore, insurance coverage provided by Belmont
should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. 

        The
Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or TRIA, which was enacted in November 2002, was renewed on December 31, 2007. Congress extended TRIA, now called TRIPRA (Terrorism Risk
Insurance Program Reauthorization and Extension Act of 2007) until December 31, 2014. The law extends the federal Terrorism Insurance Program that requires insurance companies to offer
terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of certified terrorism, subject to the current program trigger of $100.0 million. There is no assurance
that TRIPRA will be extended. Our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases, our
2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes and other corporate obligations, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. Although we believe that we currently maintain sufficient
insurance coverage to satisfy these obligations, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. In such instances, there can be no assurance that
the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from "all-risk" insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a
breach of these debt and ground lease instruments allowing the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. In
addition, if lenders prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain full coverage for these risks, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. 

        We
monitor all properties that are subject to triple net leases to ensure that tenants are providing adequate coverage. Certain joint ventures may be covered under policies separate from
our policies, at coverage limits which we deem to be adequate. We continually monitor these policies. Although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major
catastrophe, such as an act of terrorism, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. 


 We face possible risks associated with the physical effects of climate change.  

        We cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate. However, the physical effects of climate
change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. For example, we own interests in commercial office properties in the New York Metropolitan area, primarily in
midtown Manhattan. Our investments in the New York Metropolitan area also include investments in Brooklyn, Long Island, Westchester County, Connecticut and Northern New Jersey. To the extent climate
change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity, such as those experienced in Hurricane Sandy in October 2012, and rising sea-levels.
Over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. Climate change may also have indirect effects on
our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy and increasing the cost of snow removal at our properties.
There can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. 

14




 

<A
HREF="#bg17301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations.  

        Many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger
corporate tenants. Smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. Growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. Leasing office space
to these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. 


 Debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance.  

 Scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations.  

        Cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages
and other indebtedness, including our 2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. The total principal amount of our
outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $6.5 billion as of December 31, 2012, consisting of approximately $470.0 million under our 2012 credit facility, which is
inclusive of our $400.0 million term loan, $1.3 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $100.0 million under our junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and
approximately $4.6 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on 22 of our properties and certain debt and preferred equity investments, and recourse loans on two of our
investments. In addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2012 credit facility, which had $1.1 billion undrawn
capacity as of December 31, 2012. Our 2012 credit facility in aggregate matures in March 2018, which includes two six-month extension options on the $1.2 billion revolving
credit facility of this 2012 credit facility. As of December 31, 2012, the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was
approximately $5.1 billion, of which our proportionate share was approximately $1.9 billion. As of December 31, 2012, the total principal amount of recourse indebtedness
outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $218.4 million. 

        If
we are unable to make payments under our 2012 credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each
draw was made. If we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of
indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. Foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an
inability to make payments under our 2012 credit facility or our senior unsecured notes would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 

        We
may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. In 2013, approximately $116.7 million of corporate
indebtedness, $182.3 million of mortgage debt on our consolidated properties and $176.5 million which is our share of mortgage debt on our unconsolidated joint venture properties will
mature. At the present time we intend to exercise extension options, repay or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. At the time of
refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans may result in higher interest rates. Increased interest expense
on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders. If any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or
extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. 

 Financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.  

        The mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further
mortgage the properties, to enter into new leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage, among other things. In addition, our 2012 credit 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg17301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

facility
and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. Our 2012 credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios,
including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage, encumbered assets-to-assets and unencumbered
assets-to-unsecured debt. These restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends to
stockholders. 

 Rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow.  

        Advances under our 2012 credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. These consolidated
variable rate borrowings totaled approximately $1.6 billion at December 31, 2012. In addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part
by borrowing under our 2012 credit facility, which consisted of a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility and $400.0 million term loan and had $1.1 billion available for draw as of
December 31, 2012. Borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loan currently bore interest at the 30-day LIBOR, plus spreads of 145 basis points and 165 basis points,
respectively, at December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, borrowings under our 2012 credit facility and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled
$470.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, and bore interest at 1.93% and 5.61%, respectively. We may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate
or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. At December 31,
2012, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $15.4 million and
would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $8.5 million. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to continue to pay
dividends to stockholders. 

 Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations.  

        The interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk
that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. In addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. Failure to
hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. 

 No limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow.  

        Our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. As of December 31, 2012,
assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our
share of joint venture debt of approximately $2.1 billion, was approximately 53.1%. Our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at
all times. We also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt
financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. Any
changes that increase our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. As a result, our stock price could decrease. 

 Debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations.  


        We owned first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 22 investments with an aggregate net
book value of approximately $1.4 billion at December 31, 2012. Such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental
agencies or otherwise. In the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. Borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or
other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg17301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

to
actions to enforce their obligations to us. Relatively high loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to
our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. 

        We
maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. Our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and
the value of the underlying collateral. We cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of
unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which
our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. We recorded approximately $3.0 million in loan loss reserves and charge offs in 2012 on debt and preferred equity investments being
held to maturity and $2.4 million in recoveries of loans previously reserved. If our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse
effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. 

 Special servicing activities could result in liability to us.  

        We provide special servicing activities on behalf of third parties. We have been rated by Fitch and S&P to provide such services. An
intended or unintended breach of the servicing standards and/or our fiduciary duties to bondholders could result in material liability to us. 

 Joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition.  


        We co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures,
acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, we
will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities
may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail
to fund their share of required capital contributions. Additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are
inconsistent with our business interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner,
co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or
co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of
our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. As of December 31, 2012, our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 56 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis
in these joint ventures totaling approximately $1.0 billion. As of December 31, 2012, our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is non-recourse to us, totaled
approximately $1.9 billion. As of December 31, 2012, our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is recourse to us, totaled approximately $218.4 million. 

 Certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures.  

        Each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have
agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. For example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we
are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner's interest in the joint venture or to compel the
sale of the property owned by such joint venture. These rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us,
which could have an adverse effect on the value of our 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg17301a_main_toc">Table of Contents

investment
in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. 

 We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws.  

        We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. These laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of
hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage
to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. The presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely
affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. In addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for
personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. Various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have
sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. Being held responsible
for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

 We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other regulatory and legal requirements.  

        Our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state
or local zoning, construction or other regulations. These laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could result in fines being levied against us in the future. The
occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. 


        Under
the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Additional federal, state and
local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine
our compliance. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with
the ADA or similar state or local laws. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ADA or other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any
other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely
affected. 

 Our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from
receiving a premium over the market price of our stock.  


 Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control.  

        A change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing
market price of our stock. However, provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions, discussed more fully
below, are:



•staggered board of directors; 
•ownership limitations; and 
•the board of director's ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. 

18










<A
NAME="page_di17301_1_19"> 








































 Our board of directors is staggered into three separate classes.  

        Our board of directors is divided into three classes. The terms of the class I, class II and class III directors
expire in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. Our staggered board may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. 


 We have a stock ownership limit.  

        To remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned
by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. For this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules,
including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member. In part to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our REIT
qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. Limitations on the ownership of preferred
stock may also be imposed by us. 

        Our
board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. To obtain a waiver, a stockholder must
present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future REIT status. 

        Absent
any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable
beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. The stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred
to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be
transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. 

        This
limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. 

 Debt may not be assumable.  

        We had approximately $6.5 billion in consolidated debt as of December 31, 2012. Certain of this debt in not assumable by
a potential purchaser and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. 

 Maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price.  

        Under Maryland law, "business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an
interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger,
consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined
as:



•any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding shares; or  
•an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in
question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. 


        A
person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested
stockholder. 

        After
the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of
directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least:



•80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together
as a single group; and 

19




 


•two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares
held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. 


        The
business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that
might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. 

        In
addition, Maryland law provides that "control shares" of a Maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights except to the extent approved by
a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of
the corporation, under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. "Control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect
of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing
directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a
majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. A "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect
to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. 

        We
have opted out of these provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions by resolution of our
board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. However, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the MGCL's
business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the MGCL's control share provisions. 

        Additionally,
the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of
which we do not have. Such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in
our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. 

 Future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests.  

        Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and
convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval. Any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. Also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that
could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. 


 Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.  

        As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change
from time to time. In addition to the current economic environment and continued volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of our common
stock:



•the general reputation of REITs and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities,
including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; 
•our financial performance; and 
•general stock and bond market conditions. 


        The
market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends.
Consequently, our common stock may 

20




 

trade
at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. If our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, the market price of our common stock could
diminish. 

 The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations.  

        Between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012, the closing sale price of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange,
or the NYSE, ranged from $68.16 to $85.14 per share. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section.
Additionally, the amount of our leverage may hinder the demand for our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 

 Market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock.  

        If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our
common stock. Higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds
available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go down. 

 Limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of our common stock.  

        We acquired the property located at 609 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York in June 2006 and have agreed not to take certain action before
January 2014 that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition. 

        We
acquired the properties located at 752 Madison Avenue, 762 Madison Avenue and 400 East 58th Street New York, New York in January 2012 and have agreed not to take
certain action before January 2019 that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in these properties prior to the acquisition. 

        In
connection with future acquisitions of interests in properties, we may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties. These limitations could have
adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

 We face potential conflicts of interest.  


 There are potential conflicts of interest between us and Mr. Green.  

        There is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by Stephen L. Green, and
his family in our initial public offering. Mr. Green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. As part of our formation, Mr. Green contributed
appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to the Operating Partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership. He did not
recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. The Operating Partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. The fair
market value of the property contributed by him at our formation exceeded his tax basis. The difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a
built-in gain which totaled $5.1 million at December 31, 2012. If we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the
built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. As a result, Mr. Green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property, he contributed, is in our best interest
but not his. 

        There
is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to Mr. Green. Mr. Green would recognize gain if he were to
receive a distribution of cash from the Operating Partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. His tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage
indebtedness, owed by the Operating Partnership. If the Operating Partnership were to 

21




 

retire
such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. To the extent the deemed distribution of
cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. 

 Members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which Mr. Green, directly or indirectly, has an
affiliation.  

        Through Alliance Building Services, or Alliance, First Quality Maintenance, L.P., or First Quality, provides cleaning,
extermination and related services, Classic Security LLC provides security services, Bright Star Couriers LLC provides messenger services, and Onyx Restoration Works provides restoration
services with respect to certain properties owned by us. Alliance is partially owned by Gary Green, a son of Stephen L. Green, the chairman of our board of directors. In addition, First Quality has
the non-exclusive opportunity to provide cleaning and related services to individual tenants at our properties on a basis separately negotiated with any tenant seeking such additional
services. Our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 28.7% of Alliance's 2012 estimated total revenue. The contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are not the result of
arm's length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable
services. In addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive
relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with Gary Green. 

 Members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management's employment and noncompetition agreements.  

        Stephen Green, Marc Holliday, Andrew Mathias, Andrew Levine and James Mead entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with
us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the New York City Metropolitan area. For the most part, these
restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. Each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our
business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. To the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available
remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved.
Additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement,
should litigation arise over them in the future. Mr. Green also has interests in two properties in Manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment
and non-competition agreement. 

 Our failure to qualify as a REIT would be costly.  

        We believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. Many
of the REIT compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. These matters, some of
which are not totally within our control, can affect our qualification as a REIT. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed
in the REIT tax laws. We are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income excluding capital gains. The fact that we hold our assets through the Operating
Partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, Congress and the
Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified
as a REIT. 

        If
we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the IRS grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, we would
remain disqualified as a REIT for 

22




 

four
years following the year in which we first failed to qualify. If we failed to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for
investments or to pay dividends to stockholders. This would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. In addition, the REIT tax laws would no longer require us to make
any distributions to stockholders. 


 We may change the dividend policy for our common stock in the future.  

        Recent Internal Revenue Service revenue procedures allowed us to satisfy the REIT income distribution requirements with respect to our
2008 through 2011 taxable years by distributing up to 90% of any of our dividend distributions for any such year in shares of our common stock in lieu of paying the dividend entirely in cash, so long
as we followed a process allowing our stockholders to elect cash or stock subject to a cap that we would impose on the maximum amount of cash that would be paid. We did not utilize this procedure for
2008, 2009, 2010 or 2011 and the Internal Revenue Service has not renewed the procedure for later years. However, we obtained a favorable ruling from the IRS pursuant to which we may pay distributions
partly in cash and partly in shares of our common stock with respect to 2012 and 2013, so long as we follow procedures set forth in the ruling. We paid all our 2012 dividends entirely in the form of
cash. However, we may pay a portion of 2013 dividends on our common stock with shares of our common stock. If we pay such a dividend, taxable U.S. stockholders would be required to pay tax on the
entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, in which case such stockholders might have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. If a U.S. stockholder
sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our
stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such dividend, including in respect of all or a
portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales could
put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. Our board of directors will continue to evaluate our dividend policy on a quarterly basis as it monitors the capital markets and the
impact of the economy on our operations. The decision to authorize and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will
be at the sole discretion of our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including the Company's earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability
of capital, applicable REIT and legal restrictions and general overall economic conditions and other factors. 

 We are dependent on external sources of capital.  

        Because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a REIT, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future
capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. We therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all.
Our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. In addition, we
anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. At any time
conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or REITs in general, from accessing these markets. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders'
interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. 

 We face significant competition for tenants.  

        The leasing of real estate is highly competitive. The principal means of competition are rent, location, services provided and the
nature and condition of the facility to be leased. We directly compete with all owners and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. 

        Our
commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown Manhattan and certain Suburban central business districts, or CBDs. Manhattan is the largest office
market in the United States. The number of competitive office properties in Manhattan and CBDs in which our Suburban properties are 

23




 

located
(which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able
to charge. 

 Loss of our key personnel could harm our operations.  

        We are dependent on the efforts of Marc Holliday, our chief executive officer, and Andrew Mathias, our president. These officers have
employment agreements which expire in January 2014 and December 2013, respectively. A loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. 


 Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks.  

        Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a Disaster Recovery Plan for our internal
information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber
security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. We
may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. Any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal
and financial
exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. 

 Compliance with changing or new regulation applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our
reputation.  

        Changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including SEC regulations and
NYSE rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. These changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. As
a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters
and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. If our efforts
to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be
harmed. 

        As
a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses
and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of
significant financial and managerial resources. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief
financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified
directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. 


 Forward-Looking Statements May Prove Inaccurate  

        See Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-looking
Information" for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements.  

<A
NAME="di17301_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B