Item 1A.  Risk Factors

Declines in the demand for office space in
New York City, and in particular, in midtown Manhattan, resulting from general
economic conditions could adversely affect the value of our real estate
portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service
current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders.

Most of our office properties are located in midtown
Manhattan. As a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the New
York City economy in general and the market for office space in midtown
Manhattan, in particular. Weakness in the New York City economy could
materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our revenues, and
thus adversely affect our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends
to stockholders.

We may be unable to renew leases or
relet space as leases expire.

When our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon
their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. Even if tenants do
renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, including
the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than current lease
terms. Over the next five years, through the end of 2011, leases will expire on
approximately 38.5% and 38.8% of the rentable square feet at our wholly-owned
and joint venture properties, respectively. As of December 31, 2006,
approximately 3.9 million and 3.3 million square feet are scheduled
to expire by December 31, 2011 at our wholly-owned and joint venture
properties, respectively, and these leases currently have annualized escalated
rental income totaling approximately $164.3 million and
$164.2 million, respectively. If we are unable to promptly renew the
leases or relet this space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to
service debt and pay dividends to stockholders would be adversely affected.

The expiration of long term leases or
operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations.

Our interest in six of our commercial office properties
is through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the
land and the improvements, rather than by a fee interest in the land. Unless we
can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these
leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these
properties and our interest in the improvements upon expiration of the leases,
which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. These
properties are 673 First Avenue, 420 Lexington Avenue, 461 Fifth Avenue, 711
Third Avenue, 625 Madison Avenue and 521 Fifth Avenue. The average remaining
term of these long-term leases, including our unilateral extension rights on
each of the properties, is approximately 30 years. Pursuant to the
operating sublease arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease,
perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our
subtenants. We are responsible for not only collecting rent from our
subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to
the property. The annualized escalated rents of these properties at December
31, 2006 totaled approximately $152.9 million, or 24.3%, of our share of
total portfolio annualized revenue associated with these properties.

Reliance on major tenants and insolvency
or bankruptcy of these and other tenants could adversely affect our results of
operations.

Giving effect to leases in effect as of December 31, 2006
for wholly-owned and joint venture properties as of that date, our five
largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately
22.4% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, and, other than three tenants,
Viacom International Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and
Citigroup, N.A. who accounted for approximately 7.9%, 4.4% and 4.4% of our
share of portfolio annualized rent, respectively, no tenant accounted for more
than 3.3% of that total. Our business would be adversely affected if any of
these tenants or any other tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy or
otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all.

We may suffer adverse consequences if
our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in
proportion to our revenue.

We earn a significant portion of our income from renting
our properties. Our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in
relation to changes in our rental revenue. This means that our costs will not
necessarily decline even if our revenues do. Our operating costs could also
increase while our revenues do not. If our operating costs increase but our
rental revenues do not, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may
incur losses and we may not have cash available for distributions to our
stockholders.


 8 






We face risks associated with property
acquisitions.

Since our initial public offering, we have made
acquisitions of individual properties and portfolios of properties. We intend
to continue to acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties,
including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter
our capital structure. Our acquisition activities and their success may be
exposed to the following risks:

·                  we may be unable to acquire a desired
property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate
investors, including publicly traded REITs, institutional investment funds and
private investors or at all;

·                  even if we enter into an acquisition
agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to
closing, including due diligence investigations to our satisfaction;

·                  even if we are able to acquire a desired
property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly
increase the purchase price;

·                  we may be unable to finance acquisitions on
favorable terms or at all;

·                  acquired properties may fail to perform as we
expected;

·                  our estimates of the costs of repositioning
or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate;

·                  we may not be able to obtain adequate
insurance coverage for new properties;

·                  acquired properties may be located in new
markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or
understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area
and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and

·                  we may be unable to quickly and efficiently
integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of
properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of
operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.

We may acquire properties subject to liabilities and
without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown
liabilities. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon
those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which
could adversely affect our cash flow. Unknown liabilities with respect to
properties acquired might include:

·                  liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed
environmental contamination;

·                  claims by tenants, vendors or other persons
dealing with the former owners of the properties;

·                  liabilities incurred in the ordinary course
of business; and

·                  claims for indemnification by general
partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of
the properties.

Competition for acquisitions may reduce
the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs
of those acquisitions.

We plan to continue to acquire properties as we are
presented with attractive opportunities. We may face competition for
acquisition opportunities with other investors, particularly private investors
who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by
subjecting us to the following risks:

·                  an inability to acquire a desired property
because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors,
including publicly traded and privately held REITs, institutional investment
funds, investment banking firms and other real estate investors; and

·                  an increase in the purchase price for such
acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired
property.

We rely on three large properties for a
significant portion of our revenue.

As of December 31, 2006, three of our properties, 420
Lexington Avenue, 1221 Avenue of the Americas and 1515 Broadway, accounted for
approximately 28% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of
joint venture annualized rent, and 1221 Avenue of the Americas alone accounted
for approximately 10% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of
joint venture annualized rent. Our revenue and cash available for distribution
to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if the ground lease
for the 420 Lexington Avenue property were terminated for any reason or if one
or all of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. Additionally,
our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be
materially adversely affected if our tenants at these properties experienced a
downturn in their business which may weaken their financial condition and
result in their failure to timely make rental payments, defaulting under their
leases or filing for bankruptcy.

The continuing threat of terrorist
attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to
generate cash flow.

There may be a decrease in demand for space in New York
City because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this
decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. In the aftermath of a
terrorist attack, tenants in the New York City area may 


 9 






choose to relocate their business to less populated,
lower-profile areas of the United States that are not as likely to be
targets of future terrorist activity. This in turn would trigger a decrease in
the demand for space in the New York City area, which could increase vacancies
in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms.
As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could
materially decline.

A terrorist attack could cause insurance
premiums to increase significantly.

We maintain “all-risk”
property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of
flood, earthquake and terrorism) and liability insurance with limits in excess
of $200.0 million per location. The property coverage has a blanket limit
of $600.0 million per occurrence for all the properties in our portfolio
with a sub-limit of $450.0 million for acts of terrorism. The property
policies expire on December 31, 2007 and the liability policies expire on
October 31, 2007. The new property policies incorporate our newly formed
Belmont Insurance Company, or Belmont, a captive insurance company which we
formed and which received its license to underwrite insurance in New York
State, in an effort to stabilize, to some extent, the fluctuations of insurance
market conditions. Belmont is licensed to write up to $100.0 million of
coverage for us, but at this time is providing $50.0 million of terrorism
coverage in excess of $100.0 million and is insuring a large deductible on
the liability insurance with a $250,000 deductible per occurrence and a
$2,000,000 annual aggregate loss limit. We have secured an insurer to protect
against catastrophic liability losses. 
We have retained a third party administrator to manage all claims within
the deductible and we anticipate that direct management of liability claims
will improve loss experience and ultimately lower the cost of liability
insurance in future years. We have a 45% interest in the property at 1221
Avenue of the Americas, where we participate with the Rockefeller
Group Inc., which carries a blanket policy providing $1.0 billion of “all-risk”
property insurance, including terrorism coverage, and a 49.9% interest in the
property at 100 Park Avenue, where we participate with Prudential, which
carries a blanket policy of $500.0 million of “all-risk” property
insurance, including terrorism coverage. We, together with Gramercy, own One
Madison Avenue, which is under a triple net lease with insurance provided by
the tenant, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC. We monitor the coverage
provided by Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC to make sure that our asset is
adequately protected. Although we consider our insurance coverage to be
appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, such as an act of terrorism,
we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties.

In October 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable REIT
subsidiary, Belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the
elements of our overall insurance program. Belmont acts as a direct insurer
with respect to a portion of our terrorism coverage and provides primary
liability insurance to cover the deductible program. As long as we own Belmont,
we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of
Belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. If we experience a
loss and Belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would
ultimately record the loss to the extent of Belmont’s required payment. Therefore,
insurance coverage provided by Belmont should not be considered as the
equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of
self-insurance.

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, or TRIA, which was
enacted in November 2002, was renewed on January 1, 2006. Congress
extended TRIA, now called TRIEA (Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act) until
December 31, 2007. Our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans
secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine
loans, ground leases and our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and
secured and unsecured term loans, contain customary covenants requiring us to
maintain insurance. There can be no assurance that the lenders or ground
lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or
partial exclusion from “all-risk” insurance coverage for losses due to
terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments that
allows the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and
accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. In
addition, if lenders insist on full coverage for these risks and prevail in
asserting that we are required to maintain such coverage, it could result in
substantially higher insurance premiums.

Our dependence on smaller and growth-oriented
businesses to rent our office space could adversely affect our cash flow and
results of operations.

Many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented
businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate
tenants. Smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than
large businesses. Growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space,
including Class A space, as they develop. Dependence on these companies
could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which
could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations.

Debt financing, financial covenants,
degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our
economic performance.

Scheduled debt
payments could adversely affect our results of operations.

The total principal amount of our outstanding
consolidated indebtedness was approximately $1.8 billion as of December
31, 2006, consisting of $325.0 million under our unsecured term loan,
$200.0 million under our secured term loan, $100.0 million under our
junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and approximately
$1.2 billion of non-recourse mortgage loans on thirteen of our properties.
In addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness in
the future, in part by borrowing under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit
facility, which had $484.0 million available for draw as of December 31,
2006. Our 2005 unsecured revolving credit 


 10 






facility matures in September 2008. Our unsecured
term loan matures in August 2009. Our secured term loan matures in
May 2010. As of December 31, 2006, the total principal amount of
non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was
approximately $2.5 billion, of which our proportionate share was
approximately $1.2 billion. Cash flow could be insufficient to pay
distributions at expected levels and meet the payments of principal and
interest required under our current mortgage indebtedness, credit facilities,
term loans, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture
properties.

If
we are unable to make payments under our unsecured credit facility and our
secured and unsecured term loans, all amounts due and owing at such time shall
accrue interest at a rate equal to 4% higher than the rate at which each such
loan was made. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and
we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the
property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. Foreclosure on mortgaged
properties or an inability to make scheduled payments under our secured and
unsecured term loans and unsecured credit facility would have a negative impact
on our financial condition and results of operations.

 

We may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness,
which in all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity. In
2007, approximately $83.8 million and $880.2 million of debt on our wholly-owned
buildings and our joint venture properties, respectively, will mature. At the
present time we intend to exercise extension options or refinance the debt
associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates.
If any principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or
paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital,
our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt.
At the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as
the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans may
result in higher interest rates. Increased interest expense on the refinanced
debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and make
distributions to stockholders.

Financial covenants
could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business.

The mortgages on our properties contain customary
negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, to
enter into new leases or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue
insurance coverage. In addition, our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility
contains customary restrictions and requirements on our method of operations.
Our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan also
require us to maintain designated ratios of total debt-to-assets, debt service
coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. Restrictions on our ability
to conduct business could adversely affect our results of operations and our
ability to make distributions to stockholders.

Rising interest rates
could adversely affect our cash flow.

Advances under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit
facility and unsecured term loan and certain property-level mortgage debt
bear interest at a variable rate. These variable rate borrowings totaled
approximately $303.7 million at December 31, 2006. In addition, we could
increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in
part by borrowing under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had
$484.0 million available for draw as of December 31, 2006. Borrowings
under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a spread
equal to the 30-day LIBOR, plus 110 basis points. Borrowings under our
unsecured term loan and our secured term loan bear interest at spreads equal to
the 30-day LIBOR plus 140 and 125 basis points, respectively. As of December
31, 2006, borrowings under the 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and secured
and unsecured term loans and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures
totaled $0.0, $200.0 million, $325.0 million and $100.0 million,
respectively, and bore interest at 6.42%, 5.00%, 5.34%, and 5.61%,
respectively. We may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest
at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates.
Accordingly, increases in interest rates above that which we anticipated based
upon historical trends could adversely affect our ability to continue to make
distributions to stockholders. At December 31, 2006, a hypothetical 100 basis
point increase in interest rates along the entire interest rate curve would
increase our annual interest costs by approximately $2.9 million and would
increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately
$6.7 million.

Failure to hedge
effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of
operations.

The interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some
of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that
counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. In
addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to
interest rate changes. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate
changes may adversely affect our results of operations.

Our policy of no
limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow.

Our organizational documents do not contain any
limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. As of December 31, 2006,
assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership
into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization
ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of $1.2 billion, was
approximately 29.5%. However, our policy is to incur debt only if upon a
conversion our consolidated debt to market capitalization ratio would be 60.0%
or less. Our board of directors can alter or eliminate this policy and may do
so if our board of directors determines that this action is in the best
interests of our business. If this policy is changed and we become more highly
leveraged, an increase in debt service could adversely affect cash available
for distribution to stockholders and could increase the risk of default on our
indebtedness. In addition, any change that increases our debt to 


 11 






market capitalization percentage could be viewed
negatively by investors. As a result, our share price could decrease.

We have established our debt policy relative to the total
market capitalization of our business rather than relative to the book value of
our assets. We use total market capitalization because we believe that the book
value of our assets, which to a large extent is the depreciated original cost
of our properties, and our primary tangible assets, does not accurately reflect
our ability to borrow and to meet debt service requirements. Our market
capitalization, however, is more variable than book value, and does not
necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. We also
will consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions
regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of
properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of
our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and
our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service.

Structured finance investments could
cause expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations.

We owned mezzanine loans, junior participations and
preferred equity interests in eighteen properties with an aggregate book value
of approximately $445.0 million at December 31, 2006. Such investments may
or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or
guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. In the event of a default
under these obligations, we may have to realize upon our collateral and
thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real
estate in order to maximize the property’s investment potential. Borrowers may
contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy
protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in
response to actions to enforce their obligation to us. Relatively high
loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us
from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or
realization. In addition, under the origination agreement with Gramercy, we may
be precluded from making certain types of structured finance investments.

Joint investments could be adversely
affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon
a co-venturer’s financial condition.

We co-invest with third parties through partnerships,
joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling
interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a
property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. Therefore, we
will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority
regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity.
Investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve
risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility
that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or
otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions.
Additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or
other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business
interests or goals. These investments may also have the potential risk of
impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner,
co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint
venture. Consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might
result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to
additional risk. In addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for
the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. As
of December 31, 2006, our unconsolidated joint ventures owned eight properties
and we had an aggregate cost basis in the joint ventures totaling approximately
$686.1 million. As of December 31, 2006, our share of joint venture debt
totaled approximately $1.2 billion.

Our joint venture agreements contain
terms in favor of our partners that may have an adverse effect on the value of
our investments in the joint ventures.

Each of our joint venture agreements has been
individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some
cases, we have agreed to terms that are favorable to our partner in the joint
venture. For example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the
profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such
profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint
venture, to force us to buy the partner’s interest in the joint venture or to
compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. These rights may
permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit
from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which may have an
adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our
financial condition and results of operations. We may also enter into similar
arrangements in the future.

We are subject to possible environmental
liabilities and other possible liabilities.

We are subject to various federal, state and local
environmental laws. These laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and
management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on
property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances
released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without
regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the
property owner or operator. The presence of hazardous substances on our
properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or
borrow against those properties. In addition to potential liability for
clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury,
property damage or for similar reasons. Various laws also impose liability for
the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we
have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to
whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with
law.


 12










Our properties may be subject to other risks relating to
current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other
state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. These laws may
require significant property modifications in the future for which we may not
have budgeted and could result in fines being levied against us. The occurrence
of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and
ability to make distributions to stockholders.

We may incur significant costs complying
with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws.

Under the Americans with Disabilities Act, or ADA, all
public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use
by disabled persons. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require
modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our
properties. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our
properties to determine our compliance. If one or more of our properties is not
in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we would be required to
incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. We cannot predict
the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ADA or other legislation. If
we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and any other legislation,
our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to
satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders
could be adversely affected.

Our charter documents and applicable law
may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts
and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of
our stock.

Provisions of our
articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control.

A change of control of our company could benefit
stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market
price of the stock. However provisions contained in our articles of
incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our
company. These provisions, discussed more fully below, are:

·                  staggered board of directors;

·                  ownership limitations for tax purposes;

·                  the board of director’s ability to issue
additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; and

·                  stockholder rights plan.

Our board of directors
is staggered into three separate classes.

The board of directors of our company is divided into
three classes. The terms of the class I, class II and class III
directors expire in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. Our staggered board may
deter changes in control because of the increased time period necessary for a
third party to acquire control of the board.

We have a share
ownership limit for REIT tax purposes.

To remain qualified as a REIT for federal income tax
purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be
owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any
taxable year. For this purpose, stock may be “owned” directly, as well as
indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example,
rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member.
To avoid violating this rule regarding share ownership limitations and maintain
our REIT qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any
single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common
stock. Limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by
us.

The board of directors has the discretion to raise or
waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our
best interest. To obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our
tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not
affect our present or future REIT status.

Absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in
excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the
exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder’s
rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. The stockholder would be
entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares
transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the
stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock
on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable
trust; and the amount realized from the sale.

This limitation on ownership of stock could delay or
prevent a change in control.

We have a stockholder
rights plan.

We adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides,
among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be
entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred shares,
subject to our ownership limit described above. The preferred share purchase
rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the
date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has
acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 17% or more
of our outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after
the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or
exchange


 13 






 

offer, the consummation of which would result in the
acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 17% or more of our
outstanding common stock. The preferred share purchase rights would cause
substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms
not approved by our board of directors.

Maryland takeover
statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress
our stock price.

Under Maryland law, “business combinations” between a
Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an
interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date
on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These
business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in
circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or
reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as:

·                  any person who beneficially owns 10% or more
of the voting power of the corporation’s outstanding shares; or

·                  an affiliate or associate of the corporation
who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was
the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding
voting stock of the corporation.

·                  A person is not an interested stockholder under
the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by
which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder.

After the five-year prohibition, any business combination
between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must
be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the
affirmative vote of at least:

·                  80% of the votes entitled to be cast by
holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting
together as a single group; and

·                  two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast
by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the
interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business
combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the
interested stockholder.

The business combination statute may discourage others
from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of
consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a
premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our
stockholders.

In addition, Maryland law provides that “control shares”
of a Maryland corporation acquired in a “control share acquisition” will have no
voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the
votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the
acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of
the corporation, under the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. “Control
shares” means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares
of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to
exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a
revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in
electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power:
(i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more
but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power.
A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of ownership of, or the
power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and
outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions.

We have opted out of these provisions of the Maryland
General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, with respect to business combinations and
control share acquisitions by resolution of our board of directors and a
provision in our bylaws, respectively. However, in the future, our board of
directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the
MGCL’s business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in
to the MGCL’s control share provisions.

Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits our
board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is
provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of
which we do not have. Such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the
effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of
delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances
that otherwise could provide you with an opportunity to realize a premium over
the then-current market price.

Future issuances of common stock and
preferred stock could dilute existing stockholders’ interests.

Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of
directors to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock without
stockholder approval. Any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders’
interests. Also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting
provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control.

Changes in market conditions could
adversely affect the market price of our common stock.

As with other publicly traded equity securities, the
value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may
change from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value
of our common stock are the following:

·                  the extent of your interest in us;


 14 






 

·                  the general reputation of REITs and the
attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity
securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies;

·                  our financial performance; and

·                  general stock and bond market conditions.

The market value of our common stock is based primarily
upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and
potential future earnings and cash dividends. Consequently, our common stock
may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share
of common stock. If our future earnings or cash dividends are less than
expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish.

Market interest rates may have an effect
on the value of our common stock.

If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of
shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our common
stock. Higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds
for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing
costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher
market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go
down.

There are potential conflicts of
interest between us and Mr. Green.

There is a potential conflict of interest relating to the
disposition of the property contributed to us by Stephen L. Green, and his
family. Mr. Green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is
an executive officer. As part of our formation, Mr. Green contributed
appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to the
operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in
the operating partnership. He did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of
the contribution. The operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the
contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. The fair
market value of the property contributed by him exceeded his tax basis by
approximately $34.0 million at the time of contribution. The difference
between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents
a built-in gain. If we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain
is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to
him and not to us. As a result, Mr. Green has a conflict of interest if
the sale of a property, which he contributed, is in our best interest but not
his.

There is a potential conflict of interest relating to the
refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to Mr. Green.
Mr. Green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of
cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in
his partnership units. His tax basis includes his share of debt, including
mortgage indebtedness, owed by our operating partnership. If our operating
partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in
his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a
distribution of cash to him. To the extent the deemed distribution of cash
exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain.

Limitations on our ability to sell or
reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect
the value of the stock.

We have agreed to restrictions relating to future
transactions involving 673 First Avenue and 470 Park Avenue South. During the
period of time that these restrictions apply, our ability to manage or use
these properties in a manner that is in our overall best interests may be
impaired. In particular, these restrictions could preclude us from
participating in major transactions otherwise favorable to us if a disposition
of these restricted assets is required. These restrictions may also inhibit a
change in control of our company even though a disposition or change in control
might be in the best interests of the stockholders.

Specifically, we have agreed not to sell our interest in
these properties until August 20, 2009 without the approval of unitholders
holding at least 75% of the units issued in consideration for these properties.
The current gross carrying value of the commercial real estate of these
properties totaled approximately $87.9 million at December 31, 2006. We
have also agreed not to reduce the mortgage indebtedness (approximately
$33.8 million at December 31, 2006), other than pursuant to scheduled
amortization, on 673 First Avenue until one year prior to its maturity date
without the same consent. In addition, we are obligated to use commercially
reasonable efforts to refinance this mortgage prior to its maturity date in an
amount not less than the principal amount outstanding on the maturity date.
With respect to 673 First Avenue, Mr. Green controls at least 75% of the
units whose approval is necessary. With respect to 470 Park Avenue South,
Mr. Green controls at least 65% of the units whose approval is necessary.
Finally, during this period, we may not incur debt secured by any of these
properties if the amount of our new debt would exceed the greater of 75% of the
value of the property securing the debt or the amount of existing debt being
refinanced plus associated costs. The maturity date for the mortgage loan for
673 First Avenue is February 11, 2013.

In addition, on May 15, 2002, we acquired the
property located at 1515 Broadway, New York, New York. Under a tax protection
agreement established to protect the limited partners of the partnership that
transferred 1515 Broadway to us, we have agreed not to take certain action that
would adversely affect the limited partners’ tax positions before
December 31, 2011. We also acquired the property located at 220 East 42nd
Street, New York, New York, on February 13, 2003.  We have agreed not to take certain action
that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who
held interests in this property prior to the acquisition for a period of seven


 15 






 

years, after the acquisition. We also acquired the
property located at 625 Madison Avenue, New York, New York, on October 19,
2004 and have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the
tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property
prior to the acquisition for a period of seven years after the acquisition.

In connection with future acquisitions of interests in
properties, we may agree to similar restrictions on our ability to sell or
refinance the acquired properties with similar potential adverse consequences.

We face potential conflicts of interest.

Members of management
may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements
with entities in which senior management, directly or indirectly, has an
interest.

Two entities owned by one of Mr. Green’s sons, First
Quality Maintenance, L.P. and Classic Security LLC, currently provide cleaning,
exterminating and security services to all of our office properties, with the
exception of cleaning services at one property. Our company and our tenants
accounted for approximately 13.4% of First Quality Maintenance, L.P.’s 2006
total revenue and 39.7% of Classic Security LLC’s 2006 total revenue. Bright
Star Courier, LLC, a messenger service company owned by one of Mr. Green’s
sons, has provided messenger services at of our properties since May 1,
2002. We accounted for approximately 28.8% of Bright Star Courier, LLC’s 2006
total revenue. In addition, Onyx Restoration Works, a restoration company owned
by one of Mr. Green’s sons, has provided restoration services at all of
our properties since March 2005. We accounted for approximately 62.8% of
Onyx Restoration Works’ 2006 total revenue. While the contracts pursuant to
which these services are provided are reviewed by our board of directors, they
are not the result of arm’s length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no
assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which
could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. In
addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these
agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for
damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because
of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual
involved.

Members of management
may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior
management’s employment and noncompetition agreements.

Stephen Green, Marc Holliday, Gregory Hughes, Andrew
Levine and Andrew Mathias entered into employment and noncompetition agreements
with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the
acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the New York
City metropolitan area. For the most part these restrictions apply to the
executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. Each
executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our
business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. To
the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements,
we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or
injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our
desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved.
Additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being
limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject
to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future.
Mr. Green has interests in two properties in Manhattan, which are exempt
from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition
agreement.

Our failure to qualify as a REIT would
be costly.

We believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a
REIT for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. Many
of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. The
determination that we are a REIT requires an analysis of factual matters and
circumstances. These matters, some of which may not be totally within our
control, can affect our qualification as a REIT. For example, to qualify as a
REIT, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that
are listed in the REIT tax laws. We are also required to distribute to
stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income excluding capital gains.
The fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its
subsidiaries further complicates the application of the REIT requirements. Even
a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status.
Furthermore, Congress and the Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as
the IRS, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might
issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain
qualified as a REIT.

If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we would be subject to
federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Also, unless the IRS grants us
relief under specific statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a
REIT for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. If we failed
to qualify as a REIT, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would
therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to
stockholders. This would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value
of our securities. In addition, the REIT tax laws would no longer require us to
make any distributions to stockholders.

Previously enacted tax legislation
reduces tax rates for dividends paid by non-REIT corporations.

Under certain previously enacted tax legislation, the
maximum tax rate on dividends to individuals has generally been reduced from
38.6% to 15% (from January 1, 2003 through December 31, 2008). The
reduction in rates on dividends is generally not applicable to dividends paid
by a REIT except in limited circumstances that we do not contemplate. Although
this legislation will not adversely affect


 16 






 

the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the
favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause investors who
are individuals to consider stock of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends
as relatively more attractive than stocks of REITs. It is not possible to predict
whether such a change in perceived relative value will occur or what the
effect, if any, this legislation will have on the market price of our stock.

We are dependent on external sources of
capital.

Because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify
as a REIT, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital
needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. We therefore will
have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be
available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources
of capital depends on a number of things, including the market’s perception of
our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. In
addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt
markets with some regularity, and our ability to do so will depend upon the
general conditions prevailing in these markets. At any time conditions may
exist which effectively prevent us, and REITs in general, from accessing these
markets. Moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial
dilution of our stockholders’ interests, and additional debt financing may
substantially increase our leverage.

We face significant competition for
tenants.

The leasing of real estate is highly competitive. The
principal means of competition are rent charged, location, services provided
and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. We directly compete
with all lessors and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties
are located. Demand for retail space has been impacted by the recent bankruptcy
of a number of retail companies and a general trend toward consolidation in the
retail industry, which could adversely affect the ability of our company to
attract and retain tenants.

Our office building properties are concentrated in highly
developed areas of midtown Manhattan. Manhattan is the largest office market in
the United States. The number of competitive office properties in Manhattan
(which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a
material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties,
and on the effective rents we are able to charge.

Loss of our key personnel could harm our
operations.

We are dependent on the efforts of Stephen L. Green, the
chairman of our board of directors and an executive officer, and Marc Holliday,
our chief executive officer and president. A loss of the services of either of
these individuals could adversely affect our operations.

Our business and operations would suffer
in the event of system failures.

Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security
measures and the existence of a Disaster Recovery Plan for our internal
information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any
number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy
blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures.
Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations
could result in a material disruption to our business. We may also incur
additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.

Compliance with changing regulation of
corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses,
affect our operations and affect our reputation.

Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to
corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 and new SEC regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, are
creating uncertainty for public companies. These new or changed laws,
regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases
due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in
practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and
governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding
compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to
disclosure and governance practices. We are committed to maintaining high
standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, our
efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted
in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and
administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from
revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular,
our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our
internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of
that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and
managerial resources. In addition, it has become more difficult and more
expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We expect
these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources.
Further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer
could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the
performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and
retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our
business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and
standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies
due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed.


 17 






 

Forward-Looking Statements May Prove
Inaccurate

See Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations — Forward-looking Information” for additional
disclosure regarding forward-looking statements.

ITEM 1B