Item 1A: Risk Factors 


In evaluating the company, careful
consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the other
information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could
adversely affect the company’s business, operating results and/or financial
condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the company’s
common stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer to the other
information contained in this report, including the consolidated financial statements and
the related notes. 


The success of Snap-on’s
mobile van tool distribution business depends on the success of its franchisees. 


Approximately 42% of our 2005 net
revenues were generated by the Snap-on Dealer Group, which consists of Snap-on’s
business operations serving the worldwide franchised dealer van channel. Except in limited
circumstances, each of our mobile tool vans is operated by a franchisee pursuant to a
franchise agreement. Snap-on’s success is dependent on its relationships with
franchisees, individually and collectively, as they are the primary sales and service link
between the company and vehicle service and repair technicians, who are an important class
of end users for Snap-on’s products and services. If our franchisees are not
successful, or if we do not maintain an effective relationship with our franchisees, the
delivery of products, the collection of receivables and/or our relationship with end users
could be adversely affected and thereby negatively impact our financial results. 


In addition, if we are unable to
maintain effective relationships with franchisees, the company or the franchisees may
choose to terminate the relationship, which may result in (i) open routes in which end-use
customers are not provided reliable service; (ii) litigation resulting from termination;
and/or (iii) reduced collections or increased write-offs of franchisee receivables owed to
Snap-on. As Snap-on has nearly 5,000 franchisees worldwide and most of these franchise
relationships are governed by contract, it is not uncommon for litigation to result from
the termination of these relationships. 



11 







The steps taken to restructure
operations, rationalize operating footprint, lower operating expenses, and achieve greater
efficiencies in the supply chain could disrupt business. 


In 2006, we expect to take additional
steps to drive further efficiencies and reduce costs, some of which could be disruptive to
our business. These steps include strategic actions to increase the sustainable success,
sales and profitability for Snap-on and its operating segments. These actions,
collectively across our operating groups, are focused on the following: 




 
• 
Continue
on the company’s existing path to improve and transform global manufacturing and the
supply chain into a market-demand-based replenishment system, with lower costs; 







 
• 
Continue
to enhance service and value to Snap-on's franchisees and customers;







 
• 
Continue
to invest in initiatives focused on building a strong sales and operating presence in
emerging growth markets;







 
• 
Continue
to invest in developing and marketing new, innovative, higher-value-added products and
advanced technologies; and







 
• 
Extend
Snap-on’s products and services into additional markets or to new customers. 





Specific initiatives in each of these
areas are underway. Snap-on believes that by executing on these focus areas, along with a
continued commitment to new innovative products and rapid continuous improvement to drive
lower costs, the company and its franchisees will realize stronger growth and
profitability. Failure to succeed in the implementation of any or all of these actions
could result in our being unable to achieve our financial goals and could be disruptive to
the business. 


In addition, reductions to headcount
and other cost cutting measures may result in the loss of technical expertise that could
adversely affect our research and development efforts and ability to meet product
development schedules. Efforts to reduce components of expense could result in the
recording of charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction
costs or other charges relating to the consolidation of facilities. If we were to incur a
substantial charge to further these efforts, our earnings (or loss) per share would be
adversely affected in such period. If we are unable to effectively manage our cost
reduction and restructuring efforts, our business, results of operations and financial
condition could be harmed. 


Information technology
infrastructure is critical to supporting business objectives. 


We depend heavily on information
technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. If a problem occurs that
impairs this infrastructure, the resulting disruption could impede our ability to record
or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on business
in the normal course. Any such events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and
could require us to incur significant expense to remediate. 


In association with initiatives to
better integrate business units, rationalize operating footprint and improve
responsiveness to franchisees and customers, Snap-on is replacing and enhancing its
existing global Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) management information
system. The integration, implementation and deployment of new information technology
processes and a common information infrastructure is expected to cover a period of several
years. We could experience disruptions in our business as we implement the system
enhancements, including the possibility that the new system may not perform as expected,
which could have an adverse effect on our business. 


The recognition of impairment
charges on goodwill would adversely impact future financial position and results of
operations.   





We are required to perform
impairment tests on our goodwill balance annually or at any time when events occur, which
could impact the value of our business segments. Our determination of whether impairment
has occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units’ fair market
value with its carrying value. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a
provision for impairment in a future period that could substantially affect our reported
earnings and reduce our consolidated net worth and shareholders’ equity.  



12 







Business interruptions for
franchisees could adversely impact operating results. 


Franchisees have historically experienced
business interruptions due to adverse weather conditions or other extraordinary events,
such as hurricanes in the southern United States and wild fires in California. To the
extent our franchisees experience future similar events, our operating results may be
adversely impacted. 


Exposure to credit risks of
customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely
affect operating results and financial condition. 


Industry and economic conditions have
the potential to weaken the financial position of some of our customers. If circumstances
surrounding our customers’ financial capabilities were to deteriorate, such
write-downs or write-offs would negatively affect our operating results for the period in
which they occur and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our operating
results and financial condition. 


Failure to maintain effective
distribution of products and services could adversely impact revenue, gross margin and
profitability. 


We use a variety of distribution
methods to sell our products and services. Successfully managing the interaction of our
distribution efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and
services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks
and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery
model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins
and therefore our profitability. 


Risks associated with the
disruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect profitability or competitive
position. 


We manufacture a significant portion
of the products we sell. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing
manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, lack of raw
material or component availability, destruction of or damage to any facility (including
natural disasters, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), or other
reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 


The ability to provide financing
alternatives to end-user customers and franchisees could adversely impact operating
results. 


An integral component of
Snap-on’s business and profitability is its ability to provide financing alternatives
to end-user customers and franchisees. Domestic financing operations are managed through a
joint venture with CIT. Historically, CIT has been the exclusive purchaser of the credit
and installment financing arranged by SOC. Deterioration of the relationship between the
joint venture partners, or if the joint venture should be unexpectedly dissolved, could
have an adverse impact on Snap-on’s results of operations and ability to provide
financing to end-user customers and franchisees in the United States. In addition, adverse
fluctuations in interest rates and/or the ability to provide competitive financing
programs to end-user customers and franchisees could negatively affect the level of credit
originations and the relationships with franchisees and end-user customers, all of which
could have an adverse impact on Snap-on’s revenue and profitability. Further, because
of the company’s reliance on the franchised dealer network to generate credit
originations, a decline in the number of dealers and/or the amount of end-user customers
being serviced by dealers could have an adverse impact on the volume of credit
originations and Snap-on’s results of operations. 


The global tool and
equipment industry is competitive. 


We face strong competition in all of
our market segments. Price competition in our various industries is intense and pricing
pressures from competitors and customers are increasing. In general, as a manufacturer and
marketer of premium products and services, the expectations of Snap-on’s customers
and its franchisees are high and increasing. Any inability to maintain customer
satisfaction could diminish Snap-on’s premium image and its reputation with a
resulting lessening of its ability to command premium pricing. We expect that the level of
competition will remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or
increase market share or profitability. 



13 







The inability to continue to
introduce new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance could
result in lower revenues and reduced profitability. 


Sales from new products represent a
significant portion of our net sales and are expected to continue to represent a
significant component of our future net sales. We may not be able to compete effectively
unless we continue to enhance existing products or introduce new products to the
marketplace in a timely manner. Product improvements and new product introductions require
significant financial and other resources including significant planning, design,
development, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process
levels. Our competitors’ new products may beat our products to market, be more
effective with more features, be less expensive than our products, and/or render our
products obsolete. Any new products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or
otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our expectations
based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing
capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and
research and development. 


Raw material and energy price
fluctuations and shortages (including steel and various fuel sources) could adversely
affect the ability to obtain needed manufacturing materials and could adversely affect
results of operations. 


The principal raw material used in
the manufacture of our products is steel, which we purchase in competitive, price-sensitive
markets. To meet Snap-on’s high quality standards, our steel needs range
from specialized alloys, which are available only from a limited group of approved
suppliers, to commodity types of alloys. These raw materials have historically exhibited
price and demand cyclicality. Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be,
in short supply. As some steel alloys require specialized manufacturing procedures, we
could experience inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative
manufacturer on short notice. Additionally, unexpected price increases could result in
higher prices to our customers or an erosion of the margins on our products. 


We believe our ability to sell our
products is also dependent on the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles
driven and the general aging of vehicles. These factors affect the frequency, type and
amount of service and repair performed on vehicles by technicians, and therefore affect
the demand for the number of technicians, the prosperity of the technicians and,
subsequently, the demand they have for our tools, other products and services, and the
value they place on those products and services. To the extent that gasoline prices
increase, consumers may turn to other, non-gasoline based, methods of transportation,
including more frequent use of public transportation. A decrease in the use of gasoline
consuming vehicles may lead to fewer repairs and less demand for our products. 


Foreign operations are subject to
currency exchange and political risks that could adversely affect results of operations. 


Approximately 43% of our revenues in 2005
were generated outside of the United States. Future growth rates and success of our
business depends in large part on continued growth in our non-U.S. operations,
including growth in emerging markets. Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our
non-U.S. operations. These risks and uncertainties include political, economic and
social instability, including acts of war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism, local
labor conditions, changes in government policies and regulations, including imposition or
increases in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
international subsidiaries, and enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights.
We are also affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation
rates and interest rates. Additionally, cash generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions may
be difficult to transfer to the United States in a tax-efficient manner. 




14 







Failure to adequately protect
intellectual property could adversely affect business. 


Intellectual property rights are an
important and integral component of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual
property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret
laws, as well as licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment
agreements. Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could
prevent us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others
from manufacturing and selling competing products. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate
protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 


Compliance with new regulatory and
accounting requirements could adversely impact future financial position and results of
operations. 


Compliance with future regulatory and
accounting requirements, including changes related to the accounting for employee stock
option issuances as compensation expense, will have an adverse impact on our operating
results. Changes as a result of proposed legislation to reform the funding and reporting
of pension plan benefits, as well as changes in market conditions that impact the
assumptions used to measure pension liabilities under these plans, could adversely affect
our operating results, financial position and cash flows. 


As a result of compliance with the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as changes to listing standards adopted by the New
York Stock Exchange, and the attestation and accounting changes required by the SEC, we
are required to implement additional internal controls, improve our existing internal
controls, and comprehensively document and test our internal controls. In recent years we
have experienced higher costs from additional outside accounting, legal and advisory
services to comply with these requirements. Should Snap-on experience a significant
deterioration in its internal control environment at a financially significant Snap-on
facility or business, the impact of such could adversely affect our financial position and
results of operations. 


The inability to successfully
defend claims from taxing authorities could adversely affect operating results and
financial position. 


We conduct business in many
countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those
taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions, as
well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax
liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities
related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and
financial position. 



15 








Failure to attract and retain
qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue or profitability. 


Snap-on’s success depends, in
part, on the efforts and abilities of its senior management team and other key employees.
Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and
administration. The failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team
and other key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results. 


Risks associated with acquisition
activities could have an adverse impact on results of operations and financial position. 


Acquisitions involve risks and
uncertainties that can include: 




 
• 
Difficulties
integrating the acquired company, retaining the acquired business’customers, and
achieving the expected benefits of the acquisition, such as revenue increases, cost
savings, and increases in geographic or product presence; 







 
• 
Loss
of key employees of the acquired business;







 
• 
Implementing
and maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information
systems; and







 
• 
Diversion
of management’s attention from other business concerns. 





Future acquisitions could cause us to
incur additional debt, earnings dilution, contingent liabilities, increased interest
expense, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets. Impairment losses on
goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, or restructuring charges, could
also occur as a result of acquisitions. 


Item 1B