Item 1A: Risk Factors,” could
affect the company’s actual results and could cause its actual consolidated
results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking
statement made by, or on behalf of, Snap-on.

 

These risks and
uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates,
statements, assumptions and projections generally, and the timing and progress
with which Snap-on can attain efficiencies and savings from its Rapid
Continuous Improvement (“RCI”) and cost reduction actions, including its
ability to achieve improvements in the company’s manufacturing footprint and
greater efficiencies in its supply chain, and enhance machine maintenance,
plant productivity and manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, any
or all of which could result in production inefficiencies, higher costs and
lost revenues.  These risks also include
uncertainties related to Snap-on’s capability to implement future strategies
with respect to its existing businesses, its ability to refine its brand and
franchise strategies, retain and attract franchisees, further enhance service
and value to franchisees and thereby enhance their sales and profitability,
introduce successful new products, successfully integrate acquisitions
(including the company’s November 28, 2006, acquisition of Snap-on
Business Solutions (formerly ProQuest Business Solutions)), as well as its
ability to withstand disruption arising from natural disasters, planned
facility closures or other labor interruptions, litigation challenges and
external negative factors including significant changes in the current
competitive environment, inflation, interest rates and other monetary and
market fluctuations; and the impact of legal proceedings, energy and raw
material supply and pricing (including steel and gasoline), the amount, rate
and growth of general and administrative expenses, including health care and
postretirement costs, and terrorist disruptions on business.  Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to
update any forward-looking statement provided in this document, except as
required by law.

 

In
addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) prescribe when a
company should reserve for particular risks, including litigation
exposures.  Accordingly, results for a
given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is
established for a major contingency. Reported results, therefore, may appear to
be volatile in certain accounting periods.

 

3












 

Item 1: Business

 

Snap-on was incorporated
under the laws of the state of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the
laws of the state of Delaware in 1930.  Snap-on
is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics,
equipment, software and service solutions for professional users.  Products and services include hand and power
tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, information and management systems,
shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers,
as well as customers in industry, government, agriculture, aviation and natural
resources.  Snap-on also derives income
from various financing programs to facilitate the sales of its products.

 

Snap-on markets its
products and brands through multiple distribution sales channels in more than 130
countries. Snap-on’s largest geographic markets include the United States,
Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands,
Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom. 
Snap-on also reaches its customers through the company’s franchisee, company-direct,
distributor and Internet channels.  Snap-on originated the mobile van tool
distribution channel in the automotive repair market.

 

Snap-on’s business
segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making
operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance.  Snap-on’s reportable business segments
include: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the
Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Diagnostics & Information Group;
and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists
of the business operations providing tools and equipment products and equipment
repair services to a broad range of industrial and commercial customers
worldwide through direct, distributor and other non-franchise distribution
channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of the business operations serving
the worldwide franchise van channel.  The
Diagnostics & Information Group consists of the business operations
providing diagnostics equipment, vehicle service information, business
management systems, electronic parts catalogs, and other solutions for vehicle
service to customers in the worldwide vehicle service and repair marketplace.
Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”),
a consolidated, 50%-owned joint venture between Snap-on and The CIT Group, Inc.
(“CIT”), and Snap-on’s wholly owned finance subsidiaries in those international
markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. 
See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on
business segments and foreign operations.

 

Snap-on evaluates the performance of its reportable segments based on
segment revenues and operating earnings. For the Commercial &
Industrial, Snap-on Tools, and Diagnostics & Information Groups,
segment net sales include both external and intersegment net sales.  Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and
transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups
established between the segments. 
Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective
reportable segment’s operations. 
Intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at consolidated financial
results.

 

On November 28,
2006, Snap-on acquired the ProQuest Business Solutions business and certain net
assets (collectively, “Snap-on Business Solutions” or “Business Solutions”)
from ProQuest Company for an initial purchase price of $516.0 million of cash
and the assumption of approximately $19 million of debt.
 Subsequent to the November 28, 2006,
closing, the cash purchase price increased by $5.7 million to $521.7 million,
primarily reflecting a higher level of working capital received by Snap-on at
closing.  For segment reporting, Snap-on
Business Solutions is included in the Diagnostics & Information Group.

 

Snap-on Business Solutions
is a world leader in automotive parts and service information.  Its products are aimed at assisting original
equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and their dealers to enhance their service
operations.  Business Solutions’ products
include integrated software, services and systems that transform complex
technical data for parts catalogs into easily accessed electronic information
(electronic parts catalogs). Other products and services include warranty
management systems and analytics to help dealerships manage and track the
complex process of warranty claims management. 
Over 35,000 automotive dealerships around the world use Business Solutions’
electronic parts catalogs, which are available in 26 different languages and
support 15 automotive manufacturers and 31 brands.  Business Solutions’ products are also sold to
over 85,000 dealers in the power equipment and power sports markets. See Note 2
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Snap-on
Business Solutions acquisition.

 

4












 

Information
Available on the Company’s Web Site

 

Additional information
regarding Snap-on and its products is available on the company’s Web site at www.snapon.com.
 Snap-on is not including the information
contained on its Web site as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into,
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
Snap-on’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q,
Definitive Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, Current Reports on Form 8-K,
and any amendments to those reports, are made available to the public at no
charge, other than an investor’s own Internet access charges, through the
Investor Information section of the company’s Web site at www.snapon.com/investor.  Snap-on makes such material available on its Web
site as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such
material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).  Copies of any materials the company files
with the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through the SEC’s Web site at www.sec.gov.  The SEC’s Public Reference Room can be
contacted at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling
1-800-732-0330.  In addition, the company’s
(i) charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and
Organization and Executive Compensation committees of the company’s Board of
Directors; (ii) Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) Code of
Business Conduct and Ethics are available on Snap-on’s Web site.  Snap-on will also post any amendments to
these documents, or information about any waivers granted to directors or
executive officers with respect to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on
the company’s Web site at www.snapon.com. 
These documents are also available in print upon written request
directed to the Corporate Secretary, 2801 80th Street, Kenosha,
Wisconsin 53143.

 

Products and Services

 

Snap-on
offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped
into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics and repair information; and (iii) equipment.  Further product line information is not
presented as it is not practicable to do so. 
The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these
product categories for the last three years:

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Net Sales
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  (Amounts in millions)
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Product
  Category:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Tools
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,632.2
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,453.1
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,387.3
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Diagnostics and
  repair information
  
  
   
  
  
  647.6
  
  
   
  
  
  499.5
  
  
   
  
  
  405.8
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Equipment
  
  
   
  
  
  561.4
  
  
   
  
  
  502.5
  
  
   
  
  
  487.9
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  2,841.2
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  2,455.1
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  2,281.0
  
  
   
  
 


 

The tools
product category  includes hand tools, power
tools and tool storage products. Hand tools include wrenches, screwdrivers,
sockets, pliers, ratchets, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque
measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include pneumatic
(air), cordless (battery) and corded (electric) tools such as impact wrenches,
ratchets, chisels, drills, sanders, polishers and similar products. Tool
storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar products.  The majority of products are manufactured by
Snap-on and, in completing the product line, other items are purchased from
external manufacturers.

 

The diagnostics
and repair information product category includes handheld and
PC-based diagnostics products, service and repair information products,
diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts catalogs, business management
systems, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops,
equipment repair services, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty
management systems and analytics to help dealerships manage and track
performance.

 

Snap-on supports the
sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training
programs as well as after sales support for its customers, primarily focusing
on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed
by Snap-on.

 

The equipment product
category includes solutions for the diagnosis and service of automotive and
industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel
balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane systems, collision repair
equipment, air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid
exchange equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing
equipment, battery chargers and hoists.

 

5












 

Products are marketed
under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are well known in
the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major  trade names and trademarks and the products and services
with which they are associated include the following:

 


 
  
  Names
  
  
   
  
  
  Products and Services
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Snap-on
  
  
   
  
  
  Hand tools, power tools, tool storage units,
  diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile tool stores,
  Web sites, electronic parts catalogs, warranty analytics solutions, business
  management services and OEM facilitation services
  
 
 
  
  Acesa
  
  
   
  
  
  Hand tools
  
 
 
  
  ATI
  
  
   
  
  
  Tools and equipment; specialty tools for the
  aircraft industry
  
 
 
  
  BAHCO
  
  
   
  
  
  Hand tools
  
 
 
  
  Blackhawk
  
  
   
  
  
  Collision repair equipment
  
 
 
  
  Blue-Point
  
  
   
  
  
  Hand tools, power tools, tool storage units, certain
  equipment and related accessories
  
 
 
  
  Cartec
  
  
   
  
  
  Safety testing, brake tester, test lane equipment,
  dynamo-meter, suspension tester, emission tester and other equipment
  
 
 
  
  CDI
  
  
   
  
  
  Torque measuring instruments
  
 
 
  
  Fish and Hook
  
  
   
  
  
  Hand tools
  
 
 
  
  Hofmann
  
  
   
  
  
  Wheel balancers, lifts, tire changers, wheel
  aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment
  
 
 
  
  Irimo
  
  
   
  
  
  Hand tools
  
 
 
  
  Irazola
  
  
   
  
  
  Hand tools
  
 
 
  
  John Bean
  
  
   
  
  
  Wheel balancers, lifts, tire changers, wheel
  aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment
  
 
 
  
  Kansas Jack
  
  
   
  
  
  Collision repair equipment
  
 
 
  
  Lindstrom
  
  
   
  
  
  Precision hand tools
  
 
 
  
  Mitchell1
  
  
   
  
  
  Service information, shop management systems and
  business services
  
 
 
  
  Nexiq
  
  
   
  
  
  Diagnostic information for fleet and heavy duty
  equipment
  
 
 
  
  Palmera
  
  
   
  
  
  Hand tools
  
 
 
  
  Pradines
  
  
   
  
  
  Garden tools
  
 
 
  
  ShopKey
  
  
   
  
  
  Repair and service information, shop management
  systems and business services
  
 
 
  
  Sioux
  
  
   
  
  
  Power tools
  
 
 
  
  Sun
  
  
   
  
  
  Diagnostic and service equipment
  
 
 
  
  Williams
  
  
   
  
  
  Hand tools
  
 




In addition to its sales of tool, diagnostic,
service and equipment solutions, Snap-on also generates revenue from various
financing activities that include (i) loans to franchisees; (ii) loans to the
franchisees’ customers; and (iii) loans to Snap-on’s industrial and other
customers for the purchase of tools, equipment and diagnostics products on an
extended-term payment plan.

 

Franchise fee revenue,
including nominal, non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily
for sales and business training and marketing and product promotion programs),
is recognized as the fees are earned.

 

6












 

Sales and Distribution

 

Snap-on markets and
distributes its products and related services principally to professional  tool and equipment users around the
world.  The two largest market sectors
are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.

 

Vehicle Service and
Repair Sector

 

The vehicle service and
repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians
who purchase tools and equipment for themselves; (ii) vehicle service and
repair shop owners and managers - including
independent shops, national chains and automotive dealerships - who
purchase tools, equipment and diagnostics products for use by multiple
technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs.

 

Snap-on provides
innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales
support and training, to meet technicians’ evolving needs. Snap-on’s franchise
van distribution system offers technicians the convenience of purchasing
quality tools with minimal disruption of their work routine. Snap-on also
provides owners and managers of shops, where technicians work, with tools,
diagnostics equipment, repair and service information, including electronic
parts catalogs, and shop management products. Through its Equipment Solutions (“OEM
facilitation”) business, Snap-on provides OEMs with products and services
including tools, consulting services and facilitation services.  Snap-on’s facilitation services include
product procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for
their dealership equipment programs.

 

Major challenges for
Snap-on and the vehicle service and repair sector include the increasing rate
of technological change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth,
vehicle life and the resulting impact on the businesses of both our suppliers
and customers that is necessitated by such change.  Snap-on believes it is a meaningful
participant in the market sector for vehicle service and repair.

 

Industrial Sector

 

Snap-on markets its
products globally to a broad cross-section of industrial and commercial
customers including  maintenance and
repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various government
agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; vocational
and technical schools; aerospace and aviation; OEM and repair customers; oil
and gas developers; mining operations; energy and power generation equipment fabricators;
agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that
require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for their products.

 

The industrial sector
for Snap-on has achieved growth in recent years by providing value-added
products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers, particularly
those in the market segments of natural resources, aerospace, government and
education.  Through its experienced and
dispersed sales organization, industrial “solutioneers” strive to develop
unique and highly valued productivity solutions for customers worldwide that
leverage Snap-on’s product, service and development capabilities.

 

Major challenges in the
industrial sector include a highly competitive, cost-conscious environment, and
a trend toward customers making many of their tool and equipment purchases
through one integrated supplier. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful
participant in the market sector for industrial tools and equipment.

 

Distribution Channels

 

Snap-on serves customers
primarily through the following channels of distribution: the mobile franchise
van channel,  company-direct sales,
distributors and e-commerce.  The
following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s general approach for each channel,
and is not intended to be all-inclusive.

 

7
















 

Franchisees

 

In the United States,
the majority of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector are conducted
through Snap-on’s franchise van distribution system.  Snap-on’s franchisees primarily serve vehicle
service technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly
contact at the customer’s place of business. 
Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool
storage units, small diagnostic and shop equipment, and diagnostics and repair
information products, which can easily be transported in a van and demonstrated
during a brief sales call.  Franchisees
purchase Snap-on’s products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell
them at prices established by the franchisee. Most  U.S.
franchisees are provided a list of places of business that serves as the basis
of the franchisee’s sales route, although some franchisees have sales areas
defined by other methods.

 

Snap-on also offers
a trial franchise option – termed the “Gateway Program” –  to potential U.S. franchisees that do
not meet the franchise qualification requirements.  Gateway Program
participants have less upfront investment and are provided an initial base
level of consigned inventory from Snap-on to assist them
in gaining experience and building equity toward the
future purchase of a standard franchise. Snap-on also provides certain
franchisees the opportunity to add vans to their franchise or to add a limited
number of franchises.  Snap-on charges
nominal initial and ongoing monthly license fees.  Since 1991, new U.S. franchisees, and a
majority of the pre-1991 U.S. franchisees, have been enrolled as franchisees of
Snap-on.  At 2007 year end, 3,269 U.S.
franchisees (approximately 96%) were enrolled as franchisees, or employed by franchisees,
as compared with 3,308 U.S. franchisees (approximately 95%) at year-end 2006.

 

Snap-on has replicated
its U.S. franchise van distribution model in certain other countries including
Australia, Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, South Africa and the United Kingdom.
In many of these markets, as in the United States, purchase decisions are
generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians and
shop owners. Snap-on markets products in certain other countries through its
subsidiary, Snap-on Tools International LLC, which sells to foreign
distributors under license or contract with Snap-on.

 

Through SOC, financing
is available to U.S. franchisees, including financing for van and truck leases,
working capital loans, and loans to enable new franchisees to fund the purchase
of the franchise.  Internationally,
Snap-on offers financing to its franchisees and customer networks through its
wholly owned finance subsidiaries.  While
Snap-on offers financing to qualified franchisees and their customers through
SOC and its wholly owned international finance subsidiaries, the decision to
finance through Snap-on or another financing entity is solely at the election
of the customer.

 

Snap-on supports its
franchisees with a field organization of regional offices, franchise
performance teams, Diagnostic Sales Developers (“DSDs”), service centers and
distribution centers.  Snap-on also
provides sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion
programs, as well as customer and franchisee financing programs through SOC and
its wholly owned international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed
to strengthen franchisee sales.  In the
United States and Canada, the National Franchise Advisory Council and the
Snap-on Tools Canadian Franchise Advisory Council, both of which are composed
of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assist Snap-on in identifying
and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.

 

In
the United States, franchisees work closely with the DSDs.  The DSD specialists demonstrate and sell
higher-price-point diagnostics and vehicle service shop management information
systems.  DSDs work independently and
with franchisees to identify and generate sales leads among vehicle service
shop owners and managers.  DSDs are
Snap-on employees who, beginning in 2008, are compensated through a combination
of base salary and commission; a franchisee receives a brokerage fee from
certain sales made by the DSDs to the franchisee’s customers.  Most products sold through franchisees and the
DSDs are sold under the Snap-on, Blue-Point and Sun brand
names.

 

Company Direct Sales

 

In the United States, a significant
proportion of shop equipment sales under the Sun, John
Bean and Blackhawk brands  and
information products under the Mitchell1 brand  are made by a direct sales force that has responsibility
for national accounts. As the vehicle service and repair sector consolidates
(with more business conducted by national chains, automotive dealerships and
franchised service centers), the company believes these larger organizations
can be serviced

 

8












 

most effectively by
sales people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of equipment and
diagnostic products and services. 
Snap-on also sells these products and services directly to OEMs.

 

Snap-on brand tools
and equipment are marketed to industrial and governmental customers in the
United States through both industrial sales representatives, who are employees,
and independent industrial distributors. In most markets outside the United
States, industrial sales are conducted through independent distributors. The
sales representatives focus on industrial customers whose main purchase
criteria are quality and service. At the end of 2007, Snap-on had industrial
sales representatives in the United States, Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico,
Puerto Rico and some European, Asian, Latin American and Middle Eastern
countries, with the United States representing the majority of Snap-on’s total
industrial sales.

 

Business Solutions sells automotive, power equipment and
power sports software solutions, both domestically and internationally,
through an internal sales force. Products and services are marketed to two
targeted groups: OEMs and individual dealerships. To effectively reach the
large OEMs in the automotive segment, such as General Motors
Corporation, Daimler AG, Ford Motor Company, Chrysler LLC, and Toyota Motor
Corporation, Business Solutions has deployed a team of business development
professionals in the world’s principal automotive centers in the United States,
the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, France, Spain and Japan.  In the
United States and Canada, automotive  products and services are sold
directly to individual dealerships using an experienced sales force.  In
reaching customers such as John Deere (Deere & Company), JC Bamford
Excavators Ltd. (JCB) and Yamaha Corporation of America (Yamaha) in the power
equipment and power sports segments, teams are also positioned to support
the 90+ brands that Business Solutions distributes to globally.  Business management solutions are sold
directly to the automotive OEMs in the United States and throughout Europe,
including the United Kingdom.

 

Distributors

 

Sales of certain tools
and equipment are made through independent vehicle service and industrial
distributors who purchase the items from Snap-on and resell them to end
users.  Hand tools under the Bahco, Fish and Hook, Pradines and Lindstrom
brands and trade names, for example, are sold through distributors in Europe,
North and South America, Asia and certain other parts of the world.  Wheel service and other vehicle service
equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands including Hofmann,  Kansas Jack, John Bean and Blackhawk. Sun-branded equipment is marketed through distributors in
South America and Asia, and
through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe.

 

E-commerce

 

Snap-on’s e-commerce
development initiatives allow Snap-on to combine the capabilities of the
Internet with Snap-on’s existing brand sales and distribution strengths to
reach new and under-served customer segments. Snap-on offers current and
prospective customers online, around-the-clock access to purchase products
through its public Internet Web site at www.snapon.com.  The site features an online catalog
containing nearly 14,000 products, including Snap-on
hand tools, power tools, tool storage units and diagnostic equipment available
to consumers and professionals in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada
and Australia.  At
the end of 2007, Snap-on had more than 468,000 registered users, including
approximately 38,000 industrial accounts. 
E-commerce and certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed
to improve productivity and further leverage the one-on-one relationships and
service Snap-on has with its current and prospective customers. Through
business-to-business and business-to-consumer capabilities, Snap-on and its
franchisees are enhancing communications with customers on a real-time,
24-hour, 7-day a week basis.

 

Competition

 

Snap-on competes on the
basis of its product quality and performance, product line breadth and depth,
service, brand awareness and imagery, and technological innovation. While no
single company competes with Snap-on across all of its product lines and
distribution channels, various companies compete in one or more product
categories and/or distribution channels.

 

9












 

Snap-on believes it is a leading manufacturer and distributor of professional
tools, diagnostics, equipment and repair solutions, offering the broadest line
of these products to the vehicle service industry.  The major competitors selling to professional
technicians in the automotive service and repair sector through the mobile van
channel include MAC Tools (The Stanley Works), Matco (Danaher Corporation), and
Cornwell.  Snap-on also competes with
companies that sell tools and equipment to automotive technicians through
non-mobile van distributors including Craftsman (Sears Brands LLC), RIDGID and
Husky (The Home Depot, Inc.), and Kobalt (Lowes Companies, Inc.),
auto parts supply outlets (such as NAPA, AutoZone, Inc. and Pep Boys), and
tool supply warehouses/distributorships (such as MEDCO and Integrated Supply
Network, Inc. (ISN)).  Within the
power tools category, Snap-on’s major competitors include Ingersoll-Rand Co. Limited,
The Black & Decker Corp., Makita Corp., Chicago Pneumatic (Atlas
Copco), and Milwaukee Electric (Techtronic Industries Co. Ltd.).  In the industrial sector, major competitors
include Facom Tools and Proto (The Stanley Works), Armstrong (Danaher
Corporation), IRWIN (Newell Rubbermaid, Inc.), Cooper Industries, Ltd.,
and Westward (W.W. Grainger, Inc.). 
The major competitors selling diagnostics and shop equipment and
information to shop owners and managers in the vehicle service and repair
sector include Corghi S.p.A., Fluke and Hennessy (Danaher Corporation),
Robinair and OTC (SPX Corporation), Hunter Engineering, Rotary Lift and Chief
Automotive (Dover Corporation), Car-O-Liner AB, Lexcom GmbH, Infomedia Ltd.,
ALLDATA (AutoZone, Inc.), and the proprietary diagnostic and information
systems of OEMs.

 

Raw Materials and
Purchased Product

 

Snap-on’s supply of raw
materials and purchased components are generally and readily available from numerous
suppliers.  During 2006 and 2007, Snap-on
experienced higher pricing related to certain grades and alloys of steel.  Snap-on has secured an ample supply of both
bar and coil steel for the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material
demands.  While Snap-on believes that
steel prices will continue to remain high for 2008, the company does not
anticipate experiencing any significant steel pricing or availability issues in
2008.

 

Patents, Trademarks and
Other Intellectual Property

 

Snap-on vigorously
pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual property
and its position in its markets. As of December 29, 2007, Snap-on and its
subsidiaries held over 800 active and pending patents in the United States and
over 1,600 active and pending patents outside of the United States.  Sales relating to any single patent did not
represent a material portion of Snap-on’s revenues in the last three years.

 

Examples of products
that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include wheel
alignment systems, wheel balancers, tire changers, lifts, test lanes, sealed
ratchets, electronic torque instruments, ratcheting screwdrivers,
emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.

 

Much of the technology
used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public
domain. Snap-on relies primarily on trade secret protection to protect
proprietary processes used in manufacturing. 
Methods and processes are patented when appropriate.  Copyright protection is also utilized when
appropriate.

 

Trademarks used by
Snap-on are of continuing importance to Snap-on in the marketplace.  Trademarks have been registered in the United
States and more than 100 other countries, and additional applications for
trademark registrations are pending. 
Snap-on vigorously polices proper use of its trademarks.  Snap-on’s right to manufacture and sell
certain products is dependent upon licenses from others; however, these
products under license do not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s net sales.

 

Domain names have become
a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, including Snap-on.  Domain names often contain a trademark or
service mark or even a corporate name and are often considered intellectual
property. The recognition and value of the Snap-on name,
trademark, and domain name are core strengths of the company.

 

Snap-on is selectively
and strategically licensing the Snap-on brand
to carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such
as apparel, work boots and a variety of other goods, in order to further build equity
and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.

 

10
















 

Environment

 

Snap-on
is subject to various environmental laws, ordinances, regulations, and other
requirements of government authorities in the United States and other
nations.  At Snap-on, these environmental
liabilities are managed through the Snap-on Environmental, Hygiene, and Safety
Management System (“EH & SMS”), which is applied worldwide.  The system is based upon continual
improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:1996 and OHSAS 18001:1999, verified
through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.

 

Snap-on believes that it
complies with applicable environmental control requirements in its
operations.  Expenditures on
environmental matters through EH & SMS have not had, and Snap-on does
not for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect upon
Snap-on’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

 

Employees

 

At the end of January 2008,
Snap-on employed approximately 11,600 people compared to approximately 12,400 people
at the end of January 2007.  The
year-over-year decrease primarily reflects the impacts of restructuring-related
and management realignment actions at various Snap-on facilities, as well as
the June 2007 sale of a non-strategic business based in the Netherlands.

 

Approximately 3,100
employees, or 27% of Snap-on’s worldwide workforce, are represented by unions
and/or covered under collective bargaining agreements.  Approximately 1,100 employees are covered under
agreements expiring in 2008. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any
significant work slow-downs, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

 

The number of covered
union employees whose contracts expire within the next five years approximates 1,100
employees in 2008; 500 employees in 2009; 650 employees in 2010; 100 employees
in 2011; and zero employees in 2012.

 

There can be no
assurance that future contracts with Snap-on’s unions will be renegotiated upon
terms acceptable to Snap-on.

 

Working Capital

 

As most of Snap-on’s
business is not seasonal and its inventory needs are relatively constant, no
unusual working capital needs arise during the year.  Snap-on did not have a significant backlog of
orders at December 29, 2007.

 

Snap-on’s financial
condition and use of working capital are discussed herein in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

 

Neither Snap-on nor any
of its segments, except Financial Services, depend on any single customer,
small group of customers or government for any material part of its
revenues.  As a result of SOC’s
relationship with CIT, Snap-on’s Financial Services segment depends on CIT for
more than 10% of its revenues.

 

Item
1A: Risk Factors

 

In evaluating the company, careful consideration should be given to the
following risk factors, in addition to the other information included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Consolidated Financial Statements
and the related notes.  Each of these
risk factors could adversely affect the company’s business, operating results,
cash flows and/or financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of
an investment in the company’s common stock.

 

The success of Snap-on’s mobile van tool
distribution business depends on the success of its franchisees.

 

Approximately 38% of our 2007 revenues were generated by the Snap-on Tools
Group, which consists of Snap-on’s business operations serving the worldwide
franchise van channel. Except in limited circumstances, each of our mobile tool
vans is operated by a franchisee pursuant to a franchise agreement. Snap-on’s
success is dependent on its relationships with franchisees, individually and
collectively, as they are the primary sales and service link between the
company and vehicle service and repair technicians, who are an important class
of end users for Snap-on’s products and services. If our franchisees are not
successful, or if we do not maintain an effective relationship with our
franchisees, the delivery of products, the collection of receivables and/or our
relationship with end users could be adversely affected and thereby negatively
impact our financial results.

 

11












 

In addition, if we are unable to maintain effective relationships with
franchisees, the company or the franchisees may choose to terminate the
relationship, which may result in (i) open routes, in which end-use
customers are not provided reliable service; (ii) litigation resulting
from termination; and/or (iii) reduced collections or increased write-offs
of franchisee receivables owed to Snap-on. 
As Snap-on has approximately 4,700 franchisees worldwide and most of
these franchise relationships are governed by contract, it is not uncommon for
litigation to result from the termination of these relationships.

 

We may not successfully integrate businesses we
acquire, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and
financial position.

 

If we pursue future growth through further acquisitions, including
participation in joint ventures, this would involve significant risks that
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial position.  These risks include:

 

·                  Loss of the acquired businesses’ customers;

·                  An inability to integrate successfully the acquired businesses’
operations;

·                  Inability to coordinate management and integrate and
retain employees of the acquired businesses;

·                  Difficulties in implementing and maintaining
consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems;

·                  Failure to realize anticipated synergies, economies of
scale or other anticipated benefits, or to maintain operating margins;

·                  Strain on our personnel, systems and resources, and
diversion of attention from other priorities;

·                  Incurrence of additional debt and related interest
expense;

·                  The dilutive effect of the issuance of additional equity
securities;

·                  Unforeseen or contingent liabilities of the acquired businesses;
and

·                  Large write-offs or write-downs, or the impairment of
goodwill or other intangible assets.

 

Information technology infrastructure is critical
to supporting business objectives.

 

We depend heavily on information technology infrastructure to achieve
our business objectives.  If a problem
occurs that impairs this infrastructure, the resulting disruption could impede
our ability to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely
manner, or otherwise carry on business in the normal course.  Any such events could cause us to lose
customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to
remediate.

 

In association with initiatives to better integrate business units,
rationalize operating footprint and improve responsiveness to franchisees and
customers, Snap-on is replacing and enhancing its existing global Enterprise
Resource Planning (ERP) management information system.  The integration, implementation and deployment
of new information technology processes and a common information
infrastructure, which began in 2006, is occurring over a multi-year period.  We could experience disruptions in our
business as we implement the system enhancements, which could have an adverse
effect on our business and results of operations.

 

The recognition of impairment charges on goodwill
or other intangible assets would adversely impact future financial position and
results of operations.

 

We are required to perform impairment tests on our goodwill and other
intangibles annually or at any time when events occur, which could impact the
value of our business segments. Our determination of whether impairment has
occurred is based on a comparison of each of our reporting units’ fair market
value with its carrying value. Significant and unanticipated changes could
require a provision for impairment in a future period that could substantially
affect our reported earnings and reduce our consolidated net worth and
shareholders’ equity.

 

12












 

The steps taken to restructure operations,
rationalize operating footprint, lower operating expenses, and achieve greater
efficiencies in the supply chain could disrupt business.

 

We have taken steps in the past, and expect to take additional steps in
2008, intended to improve customer service and to drive further efficiencies
and reduce costs, some of which could be disruptive to our business.  These actions, collectively across our
operating groups, are focused on the following:

 

·                  Continue on the company’s existing path to improve and
transform global manufacturing and the supply chain into a market-demand-based
replenishment system, with lower costs;

·                  Continue to enhance service and value to Snap-on’s
franchisees and customers;

·                  Continue to invest in initiatives focused on building
a strong sales and operating presence in emerging growth markets;

·                  Continue to implement RCI activities throughout the
organization to drive further efficiencies and reduce costs;

·                  Continue to invest in developing and marketing new,
innovative, higher-value-added products and advanced technologies; and

·                  Extend Snap-on’s products and services into additional
and/or adjacent markets or to new customers.

 

Specific initiatives in each of these areas are underway.  Snap-on believes that by executing on these
focus areas, along with a continued commitment to new innovative products and
RCI to drive higher levels of productivity and lower costs, the company and its
franchisees will realize stronger growth and profitability.  However, failure to succeed in the
implementation of any or all of these actions could result in an inability to
achieve our financial goals and could be disruptive to the business.

 

In addition, reductions to headcount and other cost reduction measures
may result in the loss of technical expertise that could adversely affect our
research and development efforts and ability to meet product development
schedules. Efforts to reduce components of expense could result in the
recording of charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce
reduction costs or other charges relating to the consolidation of facilities.
If we were to incur a substantial charge to further these efforts, our earnings
(or loss) per share would be adversely affected in such period. If we are
unable to effectively manage our cost reduction and restructuring efforts, our
business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed.

 

Exposure to credit risks of customers and resellers
may make it difficult to collect receivables and could adversely affect
operating results and financial condition.

 

Industry and economic conditions have the potential to weaken the
financial position of some of our customers. If circumstances surrounding our
customers’ financial capabilities were to deteriorate, such write-downs or
write-offs would negatively affect our operating results for the period in
which they occur and, if large, could have a material adverse effect on our
operating results and financial condition.

 

Failure to maintain effective distribution of
products and services could adversely impact revenue, gross margin and
profitability.

 

We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and
services. Successfully managing the interaction of our distribution efforts to
reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a
complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks
and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in
the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our
revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability.

 

Risks associated with the disruption of
manufacturing operations could adversely affect profitability or competitive position.

 

We manufacture a significant portion of the products we sell. Any
prolonged disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing
facilities, whether due to technical or labor difficulties, lack of raw
material or component availability, destruction of or damage to any facility
(including natural disasters, use and storage of hazardous materials or other
events), or other reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

 

13












 

The inability to provide acceptable financing
alternatives to end-user customers and franchisees could adversely impact
operating results.

 

An integral component of Snap-on’s business and profitability is its
ability to offer financing alternatives to end-user customers and franchisees
which, for its domestic financing operations, are managed through a joint
venture with CIT.  Historically, CIT has
been the exclusive purchaser of the credit and installment financing arranged
by SOC.  A deterioration of the
relationship between the joint venture partners, or if the joint venture should
be unexpectedly dissolved, could have an adverse impact on Snap-on’s results of
operations and ability to provide financing to end-user customers and
franchisees in the United States.  Adverse
fluctuations in interest rates and/or the ability to provide competitive
financing programs could also have an adverse impact on Snap-on’s revenue and
profitability.

 

The global tool, equipment, and diagnostics and
repair industry is competitive.

 

We face strong competition in all of our market segments.  Price competition in our various industries
is intense and pricing pressures from competitors and customers are increasing.
In general, as a manufacturer and marketer of premium products and services,
the expectations of Snap-on’s customers and its franchisees are high and
increasing.  Any inability to maintain customer
satisfaction could diminish Snap-on’s premium image and reputation and could
result in a lessening of its ability to command premium pricing. We expect that
the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit our
ability to maintain or increase market share or profitability.

 

The inability to continue to introduce new products
that respond to customer needs and achieve market acceptance could result in
lower revenues and reduced profitability.

 

Sales from new products represent a significant portion of our net
sales and are expected to continue to represent a significant component of our
future net sales. We may not be able to compete effectively unless we continue
to enhance existing products or introduce new products to the marketplace in a
timely manner. Product improvements and new product introductions require
significant financial and other resources including significant planning,
design, development, and testing at the technological, product, and
manufacturing process levels. Our competitors’ new products may beat our
products to market, be more effective with more features, be less expensive
than our products, and/or render our products obsolete. Any new products that
we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any
meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our expectations based on,
among other things, existing and anticipated investments in manufacturing
capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing, promotional programs,
and research and development.

 

Economic conditions and world events could affect
our operating results.

 

We, our franchisees and our customers, may be adversely affected by an
economic downturn such as changes in consumer and investor confidence, volatile
corporate profits, and reduced business and consumer spending.  We, our franchisees and customers, and the
economy as a whole, also may be affected by future world events such as acts of
terrorism, developments in the war on terrorism, conflicts in the Middle East
and other international situations, and by natural disasters.  These factors may affect our results of
operations by reducing our sales, margins and/or net income as a result of a
slowdown in customer orders or order cancellations.  In addition, political and social turmoil
related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure
on economic conditions abroad. Unstable political, social and economic
conditions may make it difficult for our franchisees, customers, suppliers and
us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such
conditions persist, our business, financial condition, results of operations
and cash flow could be negatively affected.

 

Raw material and energy price fluctuations and
shortages (including steel and various fuel sources) could adversely affect the
ability to obtain needed manufacturing materials and could adversely affect
results of operations.

 

The principal raw material used in the manufacture of our products is
steel, which we purchase in competitive, price-sensitive markets. To meet
Snap-on’s high quality standards, our steel needs range from specialized
alloys, which are available only from a limited group of approved suppliers, to
commodity types of alloys. These raw materials have historically exhibited
price and demand cyclicality. Some of these materials have been, and in the
future may be, in short supply. As some steel alloys require specialized
manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages if we were
required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice.  Additionally, unexpected price increases
could result in higher prices to our customers or an erosion of the margins on
our products.

 

14












 

We believe our ability to sell our products is also dependent on the
number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven and the general
aging of vehicles. These factors affect the frequency, type and amount of
service and repair performed on vehicles by technicians, and therefore affect
the demand for the number of technicians, the prosperity of the technicians and,
subsequently, the demand technicians have for our tools, other products and
services, and the value technicians place on those products and services. To
the extent that gasoline prices increase, consumers may turn to other,
non-gasoline based, methods of transportation, including more frequent use of
public transportation.  A decrease in the
use of gasoline consuming vehicles may lead to fewer repairs and less demand
for our products.

 

We use various energy sources to transport, produce and distribute
products, and some of our products have components that are petroleum based.  Petroleum and energy prices have recently
been volatile and have generally increased; further volatility and increases
may be caused by market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation,
production and transportation disruption, world events, and changes in
governmental programs.  Price increases
raise both our operating costs and the costs of our materials, and we may not
be able to increase our prices enough to offset these costs.  Higher prices also may reduce the level of
future customer orders and our profitability.

 

Our operations expose us to the risk of environmental
liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that could adversely affect our
financial condition, results of operations and reputation.

 

Certain of our operations
are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which
they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the
ground, air and water and establish standards for the generation, treatment,
use, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various
health and safety regulations in the United States and abroad in connection
with our operations.  Failure to comply
with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and
non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we may incur
costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated
with past or current waste disposal practices. 
We cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or
future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our
estimates or adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.

 

Foreign operations are subject to currency exchange,
political and other risks that could adversely affect results of operations.

 

Approximately 43% of our revenues in 2007 were generated outside of the
United States.  Future growth rates and
success of our business depends in large part on continued growth in our
non-U.S. operations, including growth in emerging markets. Numerous risks
and uncertainties affect our non-U.S. operations. These risks and
uncertainties include political, economic and social instability, including
acts of war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism, local labor conditions,
changes in government policies and regulations, including imposition or
increases in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
international subsidiaries, transportation delays or interruptions and
difficulties in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. We
are also affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation
rates and interest rates. Additionally, cash generated in
non-U.S. jurisdictions may be difficult to repatriate to the United
States in a tax-efficient manner. 
Our foreign operations are also subject to other risks and challenges,
such as the need to staff and manage diverse workforces, respond to the needs
of multiple national and international marketplaces, and differing business
climates and cultures in various countries.

 

Failure to adequately protect intellectual property
could adversely affect business.

 

Intellectual property rights are an important and integral component of
our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a
combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as
licensing agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements.
Adverse determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent
us from manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping
others from manufacturing and selling competing products. Failure to obtain or
maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason
could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

The inability to successfully defend claims from
taxing authorities could adversely affect operating results and financial
position.

 

We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret
the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to
the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions, as well as the
subjectivity of factual 

 

15












 

interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ
from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to
these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and
financial position.

 

Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel
could lead to a loss of revenue and/or profitability.

 

Snap-on’s success depends, in part, on the efforts and abilities of its
senior management team and other key employees. Their skills, experience and
industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration.  The failure to attract and retain members of
our senior management team and other key employees could have a negative effect
on our operating results.  In addition, transitions
of important responsibilities to new individuals inherently include the
possibility of disruptions to our business and operations, which could
negatively affect our operating results and financial position.

 

Failure to achieve expected investment returns on pension
plan assets, as well as changes in interest rates, could adversely impact our
results of operations, financial position and cash flow.

 

Snap-on sponsors various
pension benefit plans. The assets of the pension plans are broadly diversified in an attempt to mitigate
the risk of a large loss.  The assets are invested in equity
securities, fixed income securities, real
estate and other real assets, other alternative investments and cash.  Required
funding for the company’s defined benefit pension plans is determined in
accordance with guidelines set forth in the federal Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (ERISA). Additional contributions to enhance the funded status of
the pension plans can be made at the company’s discretion. However, there
can be no assurance that the value of the pension plan assets, or the
investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient to meet the future benefit obligations of
such plans.  In addition, during periods of adverse investment market
conditions and declining interest rates, the company may be required to make
additional cash contributions to the plans that would reduce our financial
flexibility.

 

Our defined benefit
pension plan obligations are affected by changes in market interest
rates.  Significant fluctuations
in market interest rates will add volatility to our pension plan
obligations.  Declining market interest rates will increase our pension
plan obligations.  While our plan assets are broadly diversified, there is
inherent market risks associated with investments.  If adverse market
conditions develop, our plan assets could incur a loss.  The combination
of declining market interest rates and plan asset investment losses may adversely
impact our financial position and results of operations.

 

The company’s defined
benefit pension expense is calculated by netting five factors: (i) service
cost; (ii) interest on projected benefit obligations; (iii) the
expected return on plan assets; (iv) the amortization of prior service
costs; and (v) the effects of actuarial gains and losses.  The
accounting for pensions involves the estimation of a number of factors that are
highly uncertain.  Certain factors, such
as the interest cost and the expected return on plan assets, are impacted by
changes in market interest rates and the value of plan assets.  A
significant decrease in market interest rates and a decrease in the fair value
of plan assets would increase net pension expense and may adversely affect the company’s
future results of operations.  See Note
11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the
company’s pension benefit plans.

 

Item 1B