Item 1A: Risk Factors

 

In evaluating the company, careful
consideration should be given to the following risk factors, in addition to the
other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including
the Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes.  Each of these risk factors could adversely
affect the company’s business, operating results, cash flows and/or financial
condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the
company’s common stock.

 

 




 
  
   
  
  
  2008 ANNUAL REPORT
  
  
  11
  
 















 



 

Economic conditions and world events could affect
our operating results.

 

We, our franchisees and our
customers, may be adversely affected by an economic downturn such as changes in
consumer and investor confidence, instability in the credit and financial
markets, volatile corporate profits, and reduced business and consumer
spending.  We, our franchisees and
customers, and the economy as a whole, also may be affected by future world
events such as acts of terrorism, developments in the war on terrorism,
conflicts in international situations, and by natural disasters.  These factors may affect our results of
operations by reducing our sales, margins and/or net income as a result of a
slowdown in customer orders or order cancellations.  In addition, political and social turmoil
related to international conflicts and terrorist acts may put further pressure
on economic conditions abroad. Unstable political, social and economic
conditions may make it difficult for our franchisees, customers, suppliers and
us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such
conditions persist, our business, financial condition, results of operations
and cash flow could be negatively affected.

 

The success of Snap-on’s mobile van tool
distribution business depends on the success of its franchisees.

 

Approximately 38% of our 2008
revenues were generated by the Snap-on Tools Group, which consists of Snap-on’s
business operations serving the worldwide van channel. Except in limited
circumstances, each of our mobile tool vans is operated by a franchisee
pursuant to a franchise agreement. Snap-on’s success is dependent on its
relationships with franchisees, individually and collectively, as they are the
primary sales and service link between the company and vehicle service and
repair technicians, who are an important class of end users for Snap-on’s
products and services. If our franchisees are not successful, or if we do not
maintain an effective relationship with our franchisees, the delivery of
products, the collection of receivables and/or our relationship with end users
could be adversely affected and thereby negatively impact our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

 

In addition, if we are unable to
maintain effective relationships with franchisees, the company or the
franchisees may choose to terminate the relationship, which may result in (i) open
routes, in which end-use customers are not provided reliable service; (ii) litigation
resulting from termination; (iii) reduced collections or increased
write-offs of franchisee receivables owed to Snap-on; and/or (iv) reduced
collections or increased write-offs of extended credit contracts and, to a
lesser extent, lease contracts that are collected by franchisees on behalf of
SOC.  As Snap-on has approximately 4,700
franchisees worldwide and most of these franchise relationships are governed by
contract, it is not uncommon for litigation to result from the termination of
these relationships.

 

The automotive industry is
currently experiencing financial difficulties, which could affect our business
and operating results.

 

Some of our business units have
substantial interrelationships with the automotive industry.  There is currently substantial weakness and
turmoil in the United States’ automotive industry.  This weakness could result in the failure of
certain automobile manufacturers, as well as suppliers and dealers who are
dependent upon them.  It could also result
in a reduction in the number of automobile dealerships through consolidations
or as a result of changes in the automakers or their manner of conducting
business.  Additionally, the weakness of
companies in that industry could affect their levels of purchases from us and
the collectibility of amounts owed to us. 
Even though we believe that our products and services enhance
productivity, a reduction in the number of automotive manufacturers or dealers,
or their capital expenditures, could substantially affect our sales.  Any of those factors could negatively affect
our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

 

Raw material and energy price
fluctuations and shortages (including steel and various fuel sources) could
adversely affect the ability to obtain needed manufacturing materials and could
adversely affect our results of operations.

 

The principal raw material used in
the manufacture of our products is steel, which we purchase in competitive,
price-sensitive markets.  To meet Snap-on’s
high quality standards, our steel needs range from specialized alloys, which
are available only from a limited group of approved suppliers, to commodity
types of alloys.  These raw materials
have historically exhibited price and demand fluctuations of a cyclical nature.
Some of these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short
supply.  As some steel alloys require
specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience inventory shortages
if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on short notice.  Additionally, unexpected price increases for
other raw materials could result in higher prices to our customers or an
erosion of the margins on our products.

 

 




 
  
  12
  
  
  SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED
  
  
   
  
 















 



 

We believe our ability to sell our
products is also dependent on the number of vehicles on the road, the number of
miles driven and the general aging of vehicles. 
These factors affect the frequency, type and amount of service and
repair performed on vehicles by technicians, and therefore affect the demand
for the number of technicians, the prosperity of the technicians and,
subsequently, the demand technicians have for our tools, other products and
services, and the value technicians place on those products and services.  To the extent that gasoline prices increase,
consumers may turn to other, non-gasoline based, methods of transportation,
including more frequent use of public transportation.  A decrease in the use of gasoline consuming
vehicles may lead to fewer repairs and less demand for our products.

 

We use various energy sources to
transport, produce and distribute products, and some of our products have
components that are petroleum based. 
Petroleum and energy prices have recently been volatile and have
generally increased; further volatility and changes may be caused by market
fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuation, production and
transportation disruption, world events, and changes in governmental
programs.  Energy price increases raise
both our operating costs and the costs of our materials, and we may not be able
to increase our prices enough to offset these costs.  Higher prices also may reduce the level of
future customer orders and our profitability.

 

Instability and uncertainty in the credit and
financial markets could adversely impact the availability of credit.

 

Instability and uncertainty in the
credit and financial markets could adversely impact the availability of future
financing and the terms on which it might be available to Snap-on, its end-user
customers, franchisees and suppliers. 
Inability to access credit markets, or a deterioration in the terms on
which financing might be available, could have an adverse impact on our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

 

The inability to provide
acceptable financing alternatives to end-user customers and franchisees could
adversely impact operating results.

 

An integral component of our
business and profitability is our ability to offer financing alternatives to
end-user customers and franchisees which, for our domestic financing
operations, are managed through a joint venture with CIT.  Since 1999, CIT has been the exclusive
purchaser of the credit and installment financing arranged by SOC in the United
States.  A deterioration of the
relationship between the joint venture partners, including if the joint venture
should be unexpectedly dissolved or if CIT were to no longer purchase the
credit and installment financing contracts originated by SOC, could have an
adverse impact on our results of operations and ability to provide financing to
end-user customers and franchisees in the United States.  Adverse fluctuations in interest rates and/or
the ability to provide competitive financing programs could also have an
adverse impact on our revenue and profitability.

 

Exposure to credit risks of
customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect receivables and could
adversely affect operating results and financial condition.

 

Industry and economic conditions
have the potential to weaken the financial position of some of our customers.
If circumstances surrounding our customers’ financial capabilities were to
deteriorate, such write-downs or write-offs would negatively affect our
operating results for the period in which they occur and, if large, could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
operations and cash flow.

 

Failure to achieve expected
investment returns on pension plan assets, as well as changes in interest
rates, could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and
cash flow.

 

Snap-on
sponsors various pension benefit plans. 
The assets of the pension plans are broadly diversified in an attempt to mitigate the risk of a large
loss.  The assets are invested in equity securities, fixed income
securities, real estate and other real
assets, other alternative investments and cash.  Required
funding for the company’s defined benefit pension plans is determined in
accordance with guidelines set forth in the federal Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (ERISA). Additional contributions to enhance the funded status of
the pension plans can be made at the company’s discretion. However,
there can be no assurance that the value of the pension plan assets, or the
investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient to meet the future benefit obligations of
such plans.  In addition, during periods of adverse investment market
conditions and declining interest rates, the company may be required to make
additional cash contributions to the plans that could reduce our financial
flexibility.

 

 




 
  
   
  
  
  2008 ANNUAL REPORT
  
  
  13
  
 















 



 

Our
defined benefit pension plan obligations are affected by changes in market
interest rates.  Significant
fluctuations in market interest rates have added, and may further add,
volatility to our pension plan obligations.  Declining market interest
rates will increase our pension plan obligations.  While our plan assets
are broadly diversified, there are inherent market risks associated with investments.
 Our defined benefit pension plan assets, in the aggregate, incurred a
substantial loss in fiscal 2008 as a result of market conditions; if adverse
market conditions continue, our plan assets could incur further losses. 
Since we may need to make additional contributions to address an increase in
obligations and/or a loss in plan assets, the combination of declining market
interest rates and/or plan asset investment losses could adversely impact our
financial position and results of operations.

 

The company’s defined benefit
pension expense is comprised of the following factors: (i) service cost; (ii) interest
on projected benefit obligations; (iii) the expected return on plan
assets; (iv) the amortization of prior service costs; and (v) the
effects of actuarial gains and losses.  The accounting for pensions
involves the estimation of a number of factors that are highly uncertain.  Certain factors, such as the interest cost
and the expected return on plan assets, are impacted by changes in market
interest rates and the value of plan assets.  A significant decrease in
market interest rates and a decrease in the fair value of plan assets would
increase net pension expense and may adversely affect the company’s future
results of operations.  See Note 11 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the company’s
pension benefit plans.

 

The steps taken to restructure
operations, rationalize operating footprint, lower operating expenses, and
achieve greater efficiencies in the supply chain could disrupt business.

 

We have taken steps in the past, and
expect to take additional steps in 2009, intended to improve customer service
and to drive further efficiencies and reduce costs, some of which could be
disruptive to our business.  These
actions, collectively across our operating groups, are focused on the
following:

 


 
  
  ·
  
  
   
  
  
  Continue to
  invest in initiatives focused on building a strong sales and operating
  presence in emerging growth markets;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
   
  
  
  Continue to
  enhance service and value to our franchisees and customers;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
   
  
  
  Continue to
  implement RCI initiatives throughout the organization to drive further
  efficiencies and reduce costs;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
   
  
  
  Continue on the
  company’s existing path to improve and transform global manufacturing and the
  supply chain into a market-demand-based replenishment system, with lower
  costs;
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
   
  
  
  Continue to
  invest in developing and marketing new, innovative, higher-value-added
  products and advanced technologies; and
  
 
 
  
  ·
  
  
   
  
  
  Extend our
  products and services into additional and/or adjacent markets or to new
  customers.
  
 


 

We believe that by executing on
these focus areas, along with a continued commitment to new innovative products
and RCI initiatives to drive higher levels of productivity and lower costs, the
company and its franchisees will realize stronger growth and
profitability.  However, failure to
succeed in the implementation of any or all of these actions could result in an
inability to achieve our financial goals and could be disruptive to the business.

 

In addition, reductions to headcount
and other cost reduction measures may result in the loss of technical expertise
that could adversely affect our research and development efforts and ability to
meet product development schedules. 
Efforts to reduce components of expense could result in the recording of
charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction
costs or other charges relating to the consolidation of facilities.  If we were to incur a substantial charge to
further these efforts, our earnings (or loss) per share would be adversely
affected in such period. If we are unable to effectively manage our cost
reduction and restructuring efforts, our business, financial condition, results
of operations and cash flow could be negatively affected.

 

Failure to maintain effective
distribution of products and services could adversely impact revenue, gross
margin and profitability.

 

We use a variety of distribution
methods to sell our products and services. 
Successfully managing the interaction of our distribution efforts to
reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a
complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks,
costs and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance
in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our
revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability.

 

 




 
  
  14
  
  
  SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED
  
  
   
  
 















 



 

Risks associated with the
disruption of manufacturing operations could adversely affect profitability or
competitive position.

 

We manufacture a significant portion
of the products we sell.  Any prolonged
disruption in the operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether
due to technical or labor difficulties, lack of raw material or component
availability, destruction of or damage to any facility (including natural
disasters, use and storage of hazardous materials or other events), or other
reasons, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flow.

 

The inability to continue to
introduce new products that respond to customer needs and achieve market
acceptance could result in lower revenues and reduced profitability.

 

Sales from new products represent a
significant portion of our net sales and are expected to continue to represent
a significant component of our future net sales.  We may not be able to compete effectively
unless we continue to enhance existing products or introduce new products to
the marketplace in a timely manner. 
Product improvements and new product introductions require significant
financial and other resources including significant planning, design,
development, and testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process
levels.  Our competitors’ new products may beat our products to market, be
more effective with more features, be less expensive than our products, and/or
render our products obsolete.  Any new
products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise
generate any meaningful net sales or profits for us relative to our
expectations based on, among other things, existing and anticipated investments
in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund advertising, marketing,
promotional programs, and research and development.

 

The global tool, equipment, and
diagnostics and repair industry is competitive.

 

We face strong competition in all of
our market segments.  Price competition
in our various industries is intense and pricing pressures from competitors and
customers are increasing.  In general, as
a manufacturer and marketer of premium products and services, the expectations
of Snap-on’s customers and its franchisees are high and increasing.  Any inability to maintain customer
satisfaction could diminish Snap-on’s premium image and reputation and could
result in a lessening of its ability to command premium pricing.  We expect that the level of competition will
remain high in the future, which could limit our ability to maintain or
increase market share or profitability.

 

Product liability claims and
litigation could affect our business, financial condition, results of
operations and cash flow.

 

The products that we design and/or
manufacture can lead to product liability claims being filed against us.  To the extent that plaintiffs are successful
in showing that defects in the design or manufacture of our products led to
personal injury or property damage, we may be subject to claims for damages.  Although we are insured for damages above a
certain amount, we bear the costs and expenses associated with defending
claims, including frivolous lawsuits, and are responsible for damages below the
insurance retention amount.  As a
manufacturer, we can be subject to the costs and potential negative publicity
of product recalls, which could impact our results.

 

We may not successfully integrate
businesses we acquire, which could have an adverse impact on our business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

 

The pursuit of future growth through
acquisitions, including participation in joint ventures, involves significant
risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
operations and financial position.  These
risks include:

 

·                  Loss of the acquired businesses’ customers;

·                  An inability to integrate
successfully the acquired businesses’ operations;

·                  Inability to coordinate management
and integrate and retain employees of the acquired businesses;

·                  Difficulties in implementing and
maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and
information systems;

·                  Failure to realize anticipated
synergies, economies of scale or other anticipated benefits, or to maintain
operating margins;

·                  Strain on our personnel, systems and
resources, and diversion of attention from other priorities;

·                  Incurrence of additional debt and
related interest expense;

·                  The dilutive effect of the issuance
of additional equity securities;

·                  Unforeseen or contingent liabilities
of the acquired businesses; and

·                  Large write-offs or write-downs, or
the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.

 

 




 
  
   
  
  
  2008 ANNUAL REPORT
  
  
  15
  
 















 



 

Information technology
infrastructure is critical to supporting business objectives; failure of our
information technology infrastructure to operate effectively could adversely
affect our business.

 

We depend heavily on information
technology infrastructure to achieve our business objectives.  If a problem occurs that impairs this
infrastructure, the resulting disruption could impede our ability to record or
process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or otherwise carry on
business in the normal course.  Any such
events could cause us to lose customers or revenue and could require us to
incur significant expense to remediate.

 

In association with initiatives to
better integrate business units, rationalize operating footprint and improve
responsiveness to franchisees and customers, Snap-on is replacing and enhancing
its existing global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) management information
systems.  The integration, implementation
and deployment of new information technology processes and a common information
infrastructure, which began in 2006, is occurring over a multi-year
period.  We could experience disruptions
in our business as we implement the system enhancements, which could have an
adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and
cash flow.

 

The recognition of impairment
charges on goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely impact future
financial position and results of operations.

 

We are required to perform
impairment tests on our goodwill and other intangibles annually or at any time
when events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. Our
determination of whether impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of
each of our reporting units’ fair market value with its carrying value.
Significant and unanticipated changes in circumstances, such as significant
adverse changes in business climate, adverse actions by regulators,
unanticipated competition, loss of key customers and/or changes in technology
or markets, could require a provision for impairment in a future period that
could substantially affect our reported earnings and reduce our consolidated
net worth and shareholders’ equity.

 

Failure to adequately protect
intellectual property could adversely affect our business.

 

Intellectual property rights are an
important and integral component of our business. We attempt to protect our
intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark,
copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and
third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Adverse determinations in
a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from manufacturing and
selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from manufacturing and
selling competing products. Failure to obtain or maintain adequate protection
of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

 

Our operations expose us to
the risk of environmental liabilities, costs, litigation and violations that
could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and
reputation.

 

Certain
of our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations in the
jurisdictions in which they operate, which impose limitations on the discharge
of pollutants into the ground, air and water and establish standards for the
generation, treatment, use, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes. We must
also comply with various health and safety regulations in the United States and
abroad in connection with our operations. 
Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and
criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In
addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged
environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal
practices.  We cannot provide assurance
that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and
health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates.

 

 




 
  
  16
  
  
  SNAP-ON
  INCORPORATED
  
  
   
  
 















 



 

Foreign operations are subject to
currency exchange, political, economic and other risks that could adversely
affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

 

Approximately 43% of our revenues in
2008 were generated outside of the United States.  Future growth rates and success of our
business depends in large part on continued growth in our
non-U.S. operations, including growth in emerging markets.  Numerous risks and uncertainties affect our
non-U.S. operations.  These risks
and uncertainties include political, economic and social instability, such as
acts of war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism, local labor conditions,
changes in government policies and regulations, including imposition or
increases in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
international subsidiaries, transportation delays or interruptions and
difficulties in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights.  We are also affected by changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, inflation rates and interest rates.  Additionally, cash generated in
non-U.S. jurisdictions may be difficult to repatriate to the United
States in a tax-efficient manner. 
Our foreign operations are also subject to other risks and challenges,
such as the need to staff and manage diverse workforces, respond to the needs
of multiple national and international marketplaces, and differing business
climates and cultures in various countries.

 

The inability to successfully
defend claims from taxing authorities could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of   operations
and cash flow.

 

We conduct business in many
countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in
each of those taxing jurisdictions.  Due
to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions, as well as the
subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax
liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments.  Claims from taxing authorities related to
these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and
financial position.

 

Failure to attract and retain
qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue and/or profitability.

 

Snap-on’s success depends, in part,
on the efforts and abilities of its senior management team and other key
employees. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit
our operations and administration.  The
failure to attract and retain members of our senior management team and other
key employees could have a negative effect on our operating results.  In addition, transitions of important
responsibilities to new individuals inherently include the possibility of
disruptions to our business and operations, which could negatively affect our
business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.

 

Item 1B