Item 1A: Risk
Factors

In evaluating the
company, careful consideration should be given to the following risk factors,
in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K.  Each of these risk factors could
adversely affect the company’s business, operating results and/or financial
condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in the
company’s common stock. In addition to the following disclosures, please refer
to the other information contained in this report, including the consolidated
financial statements and the related notes.

The
success of Snap-on’s mobile van tool distribution business depends on the
success of its franchisees.

Approximately 41%
of our 2006 revenues were generated by the Snap-on Tools Group, which consists
of Snap-on’s business operations serving the worldwide franchise van
channel. Except in limited circumstances, each of our mobile tool vans is
operated by a franchisee pursuant to a franchise agreement. Snap-on’s success
is dependent on its relationships with franchisees, individually and
collectively, as they are the primary sales and service link between the
company and vehicle service and repair technicians, who are an important class
of end users for Snap-on’s products and services. If our franchisees are not
successful, or if we do not maintain an effective relationship with our
franchisees, the delivery of products, the collection of receivables and/or our
relationship with end users could be adversely affected and thereby negatively
impact our financial results.

In addition, if we
are unable to maintain effective relationships with franchisees, the company or
the franchisees may choose to terminate the relationship, which may result in
(i) open routes in which end-use customers are not provided reliable service;
(ii) litigation resulting from termination; and/or (iii) reduced collections or
increased write-offs of franchisee receivables owed to       Snap-on. 
As Snap-on has over 4,800 franchisees worldwide and most of these
franchise relationships are governed by contract, it is not uncommon for
litigation to result from the termination of these relationships.

The steps
taken to restructure operations, rationalize operating footprint, lower
operating expenses, and achieve greater efficiencies in the supply chain could
disrupt business.

We have taken
steps in the past, and expect to take additional steps in 2007, intended to
improve customer service and to drive further efficiencies and reduce costs,
some of which could be disruptive to our business.  These actions, collectively across our
operating groups, are focused on the following:

·                  Continue on the
company’s existing path to improve and transform global manufacturing and the
supply chain into a market-demand-based replenishment system, with lower costs;

·                  Continue to
enhance service and value to Snap-on’s franchisees and customers;

·                  Continue to
invest in initiatives focused on building a strong sales and operating presence
in emerging growth markets;

·                  Continue to
implement rapid continuous improvement (RCI) activities throughout the
organization to drive further efficiencies and reduce costs;

·                  Continue to
invest in developing and marketing new, innovative, higher-value-added products
and advanced technologies; and

·                  Extend
Snap-on’s products and services into additional markets or to new customers.

Specific
initiatives in each of these areas are underway.  Snap-on believes that by executing on these
focus areas, along with a continued commitment to new innovative products and
rapid continuous improvement to drive lower costs, the company and its
franchisees will realize stronger growth and profitability.  However, 


 11 






failure to succeed
in the implementation of any or all of these actions could result in our being
unable to achieve our financial goals and could be disruptive to the business.

In addition,
reductions to headcount and other cost reduction measures may result in the
loss of technical expertise that could adversely affect our research and
development efforts and ability to meet product development schedules. Efforts
to reduce components of expense could result in the recording of charges for
inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs or other
charges relating to the consolidation of facilities. If we were to incur a
substantial charge to further these efforts, our earnings (or loss) per share
would be adversely affected in such period. If we are unable to effectively
manage our cost reduction and restructuring efforts, our business, results of
operations and financial condition could be harmed.

Risks
associated with the integration of Snap-on’s acquisition of ProQuest Business
Solutions (or other future acquisitions) could have an adverse impact on
Snap-on’s results of operations and financial position.

We completed the
acquisition of ProQuest Business Solutions on November 28, 2006. If our
integration of this business is not successful, it could adversely affect our
earnings, cash flow and share price. The acquisition also involves risks and
uncertainties that include:

·                  Retaining the
customers of business solutions and achieving the expected benefits of the
acquisition, including (i) accelerating earnings and cash flows;
(ii) expanding our existing product offerings into the global automotive
OEM dealership segment; and (iii) creating new customer relationships and
product integration opportunities;

·                  Losing key
employees of business solutions;

·                  Incurring
additional debt, earnings dilution and contingent liabilities;

·                  Implementing and
maintaining consistent standards, controls, procedures, policies and
information systems; and

·                  Diverting
management’s attention from other business concerns.

ProQuest Company,
the predecessor parent company of ProQuest Business Solutions, is the subject
of an ongoing accounting review by the SEC. 
ProQuest Company has announced that this review will result in the
restatement of previously reported earnings when it files its 2005 Annual
Report on Form 10-K with the SEC. 
In connection with Snap-on’s acquisition of the ProQuest Business
Solutions segment, ProQuest Company prepared financial statements of ProQuest
Business Solutions on a stand-alone basis as of and for the year ended
December 31, 2005. ProQuest Company’s independent auditors audited those
financial statements and Snap-on filed those audited financial statements with
the SEC in a Current Report on Form 8-K/A dated January 9, 2007, which amended
the company’s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 28, 2006.  Because ProQuest Company’s restated financial
statements are not yet finalized and the ProQuest Company SEC investigation is
ongoing, we cannot assure that when ProQuest Company files its restated results
they will not contain additional information that could impact the ProQuest
Business Solutions’ audited stand-alone financial statements. Snap-on will
evaluate any new information and if it is material, the information could
result in the company’s need to amend its Form 8-K/A filing to restate the
ProQuest Business Solutions’ financial statements.

Information
technology infrastructure is critical to supporting business objectives.

We depend heavily
on information technology infrastructure to achieve our business
objectives.  If a problem occurs that
impairs this infrastructure, the resulting disruption could impede our ability
to record or process orders, manufacture and ship in a timely manner, or
otherwise carry on business in the normal course.  Any such events could cause us to lose
customers or revenue and could require us to incur significant expense to remediate.

In association
with initiatives to better integrate business units, rationalize operating
footprint and improve responsiveness to franchisees and customers, Snap-on is
replacing and enhancing its existing global Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)
management information system.  The
integration, implementation and deployment of new information technology
processes and a common information infrastructure, which began in 2006,  is expected to cover a period of several
years.  We could experience disruptions
in our business as we implement the system enhancements, including the
possibility that the new system may not perform as expected, which could have
an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.


 12 






The
recognition of impairment charges on goodwill would adversely impact future
financial position and results of operations.

We are required to
perform impairment tests on our goodwill balance annually or at any time when
events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. Our
determination of whether impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of
each of our reporting units’ fair market value with its carrying value.
Significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for impairment
in a future period that could substantially affect our reported earnings and
reduce our consolidated net worth and shareholders’ equity.

Business
interruptions for franchisees could adversely impact operating results.

Franchisees have
historically experienced business interruptions due to adverse weather
conditions or other extraordinary events, such as hurricanes in the southern
United States and wild fires in California. To the extent our franchisees
experience future similar events, our operating results may be adversely impacted.

Exposure
to credit risks of customers and resellers may make it difficult to collect
receivables and could adversely affect operating results and financial
condition.

Industry and
economic conditions have the potential to weaken the financial position of some
of our customers. If circumstances surrounding our customers’ financial
capabilities were to deteriorate, such write-downs or write-offs would
negatively affect our operating results for the period in which they occur and,
if large, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and
financial condition.

Failure
to maintain effective distribution of products and services could adversely
impact revenue, gross margin and profitability.

We use a variety
of distribution methods to sell our products and services. Successfully
managing the interaction of our distribution efforts to reach various potential
customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover,
since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our
failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for
our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins
and therefore our profitability.

Risks
associated with the disruption of manufacturing operations could adversely
affect profitability or competitive position.

We manufacture a
significant portion of the products we sell. Any prolonged disruption in the
operations of our existing manufacturing facilities, whether due to technical
or labor difficulties, lack of raw material or component availability,
destruction of or damage to any facility (including natural disasters, use and
storage of hazardous materials or other events), or other reasons, could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

The
inability to provide acceptable financing alternatives to end-user customers
and franchisees could adversely impact operating results.

An integral
component of Snap-on’s business and profitability is its ability to provide
financing alternatives to end-user customers and franchisees which, for its
domestic financing operations, are managed through a joint venture with
CIT.  Historically, CIT has been the
exclusive purchaser of the credit and installment financing arranged by
SOC.  A deterioration of the relationship
between the joint venture partners, or if the joint venture should be
unexpectedly dissolved, could have an adverse impact on Snap-on’s results of
operations and ability to provide financing to end-user customers and
franchisees in the United States. 
Adverse fluctuations in interest rates and/or the ability to provide
competitive financing programs could also have an adverse impact on Snap-on’s
revenue and profitability.

The
global tool and equipment industry is competitive.

We face strong
competition in all of our market segments. 
Price competition in our various industries is intense and pricing
pressures from competitors and customers are increasing. In general, as a
manufacturer and marketer of premium products and services, the expectations of
Snap-on’s customers and its franchisees are high and increasing.  Any inability to maintain customer
satisfaction could diminish Snap-on’s premium image and reputation and could
result in a lessening of its ability to command premium 


 13 






pricing. We expect
that the level of competition will remain high in the future, which could limit
our ability to maintain or increase market share or profitability.

The
inability to continue to introduce new products that respond to customer needs
and achieve market acceptance could result in lower revenues and reduced
profitability.

Sales from new
products represent a significant portion of our net sales and are expected to
continue to represent a significant component of our future net sales. We may
not be able to compete effectively unless we continue to enhance existing
products or introduce new products to the marketplace in a timely manner.
Product improvements and new product introductions require significant financial
and other resources including significant planning, design, development, and
testing at the technological, product, and manufacturing process
levels. Our competitors’ new products may beat our products to market, be
more effective with more features, be less expensive than our products, and/or
render our products obsolete. Any new products that we develop may not receive
market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful net sales or profits for
us relative to our expectations based on, among other things, existing and
anticipated investments in manufacturing capacity and commitments to fund
advertising, marketing, promotional programs, and research and development.

Raw
material and energy price fluctuations and shortages (including steel and various
fuel sources) could adversely affect the ability to obtain needed manufacturing
materials and could adversely affect results of operations.

The principal raw
material used in the manufacture of our products is steel, which we purchase in
competitive, price-sensitive markets. To meet Snap-on’s high quality standards,
our steel needs range from specialized alloys, which are available only from a
limited group of approved suppliers, to commodity types of alloys. These raw
materials have historically exhibited price and demand cyclicality. Some of
these materials have been, and in the future may be, in short supply. As some
steel alloys require specialized manufacturing procedures, we could experience
inventory shortages if we were required to use an alternative manufacturer on
short notice.  Additionally, unexpected
price increases could result in higher prices to our customers or an erosion of
the margins on our products.

We believe our
ability to sell our products is also dependent on the number of vehicles on the
road, the number of miles driven and the general aging of vehicles. These
factors affect the frequency, type and amount of service and repair performed
on vehicles by technicians, and therefore affect the demand for the number of
technicians, the prosperity of the technicians and, subsequently, the demand technicians
have for our tools, other products and services, and the value technicians
place on those products and services. To the extent that gasoline prices
increase, consumers may turn to other, non-gasoline based, methods of
transportation, including more frequent use of public transportation.  A decrease in the use of gasoline consuming
vehicles may lead to fewer repairs and less demand for our products.

Foreign
operations are subject to currency exchange and political risks that could
adversely affect results of operations.

Approximately 44%
of our revenues in 2006 were generated outside of the United States.  Future growth rates and success of our
business depends in large part on continued growth in our
non-U.S. operations, including growth in emerging markets. Numerous risks
and uncertainties affect our non-U.S. operations. These risks and
uncertainties include political, economic and social instability, including
acts of war, civil disturbance or acts of terrorism, local labor conditions,
changes in government policies and regulations, including imposition or
increases in withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
international subsidiaries, and enforcement of contract and intellectual
property rights. We are also affected by changes in foreign currency exchange
rates, inflation rates and interest rates. Additionally, cash generated in
non-U.S. jurisdictions may be difficult to transfer to the United
States in a tax-efficient manner.

Failure
to adequately protect intellectual property could adversely affect business.

Intellectual
property rights are an important and integral component of our business. We
attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of
patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing
agreements and third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Adverse
determinations in a judicial or administrative proceeding could prevent us from
manufacturing and selling our products or prevent us from stopping others from
manufacturing and selling competing products. Failure to obtain or maintain
adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.


 14 






The
inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities could adversely
affect operating results and financial position.

We conduct
business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws
and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of
tax laws between those jurisdictions, as well as the subjectivity of factual
interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual
payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these
differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial
position.

Failure
to attract and retain qualified personnel could lead to a loss of revenue
and/or profitability.

Snap-on’s success
depends, in part, on the efforts and abilities of its senior management team
and other key employees.  Their skills,
experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and
administration.  The failure to attract
and retain members of our senior management team and other key employees could
have a negative effect on our operating results.

Failure to
achieve expected investment returns on pension plan assets could adversely
impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flow.

Snap-on sponsors various pension benefit plans. The
assets of the pension plan are broadly
diversified in an attempt to mitigate the risk of a large loss.  The
assets are invested in equity securities, fixed income securities, real estate and other real assets, and
money market instruments. Required
funding for the company’s defined benefit pension plans is determined in
accordance with guidelines set forth in the federal Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (ERISA).  Additional contributions to enhance the funded
status of the pension plans can be made at the company’s discretion.
However, there can be no assurance that the value of the pension plan assets,
or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient to meet the future benefit obligations of
such plans.  In addition, during periods of adverse investment market
conditions and declining interest rates, the company may be required to make
additional cash contributions to the plans that would reduce our financial
flexibility. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further information on the company’s pension benefit plans.

Our defined benefit pension plan obligations are
affected by changes in market interest rates.  Significant fluctuations in market interest rates will add volatility to
our pension plan obligations.  Declining market interest rates will
increase our pension plan obligations.  While our plan assets are broadly
diversified, there is inherent market risks associated with investments.
 If adverse market conditions develop, our plan assets could incur a
loss.  The combination of declining market interest rates and plan asset
investment losses may adversely impact our financial position and results of
operations.

The company’s defined benefit pension expense is
calculated by netting five factors: service cost; interest on projected benefit
obligations; the expected return on plan assets; the amortization of prior
service costs; and the effects of actuarial gains and losses. The accounting
for pensions involves the estimation of a number of factors that are highly
uncertain.  Certain factors, such as the
interest cost and the expected return on plan assets are impacted by changes in
market interest rates and the value of plan assets.  A significant
decrease in market interest rates and a decrease in the fair value of plan
assets would increase net pension expense and may adversely affect the company’s
future results of operations.

Item 1B