Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend” and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements, which are as of the date of this filing, should be evaluated with the understanding of their inherent uncertainty. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date as of which the statement is made.
 
 
PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
We operate in the media industry and are one of the leading global developers of lifestyle-oriented content for linear and interactive video platforms, including television and the internet, with respected, high-profile brands. Our businesses engage audiences and efficiently serve advertisers by delivering entertaining and highly-useful content that focuses on specifically-defined topics of interest.
We seek to engage audiences worldwide that are highly-desirable to advertisers with entertaining and informative lifestyle content that is produced for television, the internet and alternative media platforms. We intend to expand and enhance our lifestyle brands through creating popular new programming content, extending distribution on various platforms, such as mobile devices, streaming services, tablets and video-on-demand, licensing of content to third parties and of brands for consumer products and increasing our international footprint.
The Company was incorporated under the law of the State of Ohio on October 27, 2007 in connection with our July 1, 2008 spin-off from The E.W. Scripps Company. 
On July 1, 2015, we completed the acquisition of N-Vision B.V. (“N-Vision”, the “Acquisition”), the majority owner of TVN, a Polish media company, which operates a portfolio of free-to-air and pay-TV lifestyle and entertainment networks, including TVN, TVN24, TVN Style, TTV, TVN Turbo, TVN24 Biznes i Świat.  Also included in TVN is TVN Media, an advertising sales house.
In September 2015, we purchased the remaining outstanding shares of TVN through a tender offer (the “Tender Offer”) and subsequent squeeze-out (the “Squeeze-out”). Together, the Acquisition, Tender Offer and Squeeze-out are referred to herein as the Transactions (the “Transactions”) (see Note 4 – Acquisitions). As a result of the Transactions, the international operating segment which was previously not significant, has become significant. Therefore, the Company now has two reportable segments: U.S. Networks, previously referred to as Lifestyle Media, and International Networks. As a result of these changes to our reportable segments, certain prior period segment results have been recast to reflect the current presentation.
4

 
U.S. Networks includes our six domestic television networks: HGTV, Food Network, Travel Channel, DIY Network, Cooking Channel and Great American Country. Additionally, U.S. Networks includes websites associated with the aforementioned television brands and other internet and mobile businesses serving home, food, travel and other lifestyle-related categories. Food Network and Cooking Channel are included in the Food Network Partnership, of which we own 68.7 percent. We also own 65.0 percent of Travel Channel. The call option for the 35.0 percent interest in Travel Channel became exercisable on December 15, 2015, and on January 6, 2016, we notified the non-controlling interest owner of our intention to execute our call option, as a result of which we will own 100.0 percent of Travel Channel (see Note 24 – Subsequent Events). Each of our networks is distributed by cable and satellite distributors, telecommunication service providers and certain non-linear service providers. 
International Networks includes the lifestyle-oriented networks available in the United Kingdom (“UK”), other European markets, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”), Asia Pacific (“APAC”) and Latin America. Additionally, International Networks includes TVN.
As used in our consolidated financial statements, Corporate and Other includes the results of businesses not separately identified as reportable segments for external financial reporting purposes and will continue to be disclosed separately from the results of U.S. Networks and International Networks.
Our businesses earn revenue from advertising sales, affiliate fees and ancillary sales, including licensing of our content to third parties and of brands for consumer products.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Our Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) evaluates the operating performance of our businesses and makes decisions about the allocation of resources to the businesses using a non-GAAP measure we call segment profit. Segment profit excludes interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, divested operating units, investment results and certain other items included in net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
Depreciation and amortization charges are the result of decisions made in prior periods regarding the allocation of resources and are, therefore, excluded from segment profit. Additionally, financing, tax structure and divestiture decisions are excluded from the performance measure of our businesses, enabling us to evaluate operating performance based upon current economic conditions and decisions made by the managers of those businesses in the current period.
U.S. Networks
U.S. Networks generates revenues principally from advertising sales and affiliate fees paid for the right to distribute our programming content. U.S. Networks also earns revenue from the licensing of content to third parties and of brands for consumer products, such as videos, books, kitchenware and tools.
Advertising revenue generated by our domestic television networks depends on viewership ratings, as determined by Nielsen Media Research and other third-party research companies, and advertising rates paid by advertisers for delivery of advertisements to certain viewer demographics. Revenue from advertising is subject to seasonality, market-based variations and general economic conditions.  Advertising revenue is typically highest in the second and fourth quarters and can fluctuate relative to the popularity of specific programming, time of day an advertisement is run and seasonal demand of advertisers. 
Revenues from affiliates are negotiated with individual distributors and can typically result in multi-year carriage agreements that contain scheduled rate increases. Affiliate fees we receive are determined by the number of subscribers with access to the programming of our various networks.
Programming expenses, employee costs and marketing and advertising expenses are the primary operating costs of U.S. Networks. Marketing and advertising expenses are incurred to support brand-building initiatives at all of our networks.
Our lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses are focused on the internal development and acquisition of interactive media that is intended to diversify sources of revenue and enhance our competitive advantage as a leading provider of home, food, travel and lifestyle content. 
The lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses consist of multiple websites, including, but not limited to, our six network-branded websites, HGTV.com, Foodnetwork.com, Travelchannel.com, DIYNetwork.com, Cookingchanneltv.com and GACTV.com. In addition to serving as home websites for the television networks, the websites provide informational and instructional content on specific topics within their respective lifestyle content categories. Revenue generated by our lifestyle interactive businesses is derived 
5

 
primarily from the sale of display, banner and video advertising. The Company also operates uLive, a digital brand launched in 2014 that distributes video programming and expands our lifestyle content into new categories, such as parenting, beauty and wellness. uLive presents original video, as well as content aggregated from numerous partners, and generates revenue by delivering advertising to viewers of the programming. All of our interactive businesses benefit from archived television network programming, of which approximately 94.3 percent is owned by us. Our ownership of programming enables us to efficiently and economically repurpose it for use on websites and mobile platforms, including video‑on‑demand and streaming services.
The lifestyle-oriented websites accounted for approximately 5.0 percent of the U.S. Networks’ total operating revenues in 2015. The strategic focus of the lifestyle-oriented interactive businesses is to grow advertising revenues by increasing views and video plays and attracting more unique visitors to our websites through site enhancements and additional video. Our strategy also includes attracting a broader audience through placing our video programming on national video streaming sites, developing new sources of revenue that capitalize on traffic growth at our websites and capitalizing on the movement of advertising dollars to mobile platforms.
We also have investments in several entities in which we do not own a controlling interest (see Note 7 – Investments).
HGTV 
HGTV is available in approximately 93.4 million domestic television households and is simulcast in high definition (“HD”). HGTV programming content commands an audience interested specifically in home-related topics. HGTV is television's premier network dedicated solely to topics such as decorating, interior design, home remodeling, landscape design and real estate. HGTV strives to engage audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. HGTV appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. HGTV ranked second among women in the 25 to 54 age range and eighth among all adult viewers in the 25 to 54 age range for cable networks. 
Programming on HGTV includes House Hunters, House Hunters International, Fixer Upper, Flip or Flop, The Property Brothers and Ellen’s Design Challenge. The network also has developed successful programming events, including the HGTV Dream Home Giveaway, HGTV Smart Home Giveaway, HGTV Urban Oasis Giveaway and annual live coverage of the Tournament of Roses Parade.  Many of the programs on HGTV feature, or are hosted by, high-profile television personalities such as Chip and Joanna Gaines; Tarek and Christina El Moussa; Drew and Jonathan Scott; Ellen DeGeneres and cousins Anthony Carrino and John Colaneri. 
Food Network 
Food Network is available in approximately 95.0 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD. We currently own 68.7 percent of the Food Network and are the managing partner. The Tribune Media Company (“Tribune”) has a non-controlling interest of 31.3 percent in Food Network. 
Food Network programming content attracts audiences interested in food-related topics such as food preparation, dining out, entertaining, food manufacturing, nutrition and healthy eating. Food Network engages audiences by creating original programming that is entertaining, instructional and informative. Food Network appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. Food Network ranked within the top 10 cable networks for women in the 25 to 54 age range. 
Programming on Food Network includes primetime series Beat Bobby Flay, Burgers, Brew and ‘Que, Chopped, Cutthroat Kitchen, Diners, Drive-ins and Dives, Food Network Star and Guy’s Grocery Games, as well as daytime series Giada in Italy, The Kitchen, Pioneer Woman and Trisha’s Southern Kitchen. Food Network hosts include high-profile television personalities such as Valerie Bertinelli, Anne Burrell, Alex Guarnaschelli, Alton Brown, Bobby Flay, Giada De Laurentiis, Guy Fieri, Rachael Ray, Ree Drummond, Robert Irvine and Trisha Yearwood. 
Travel Channel 
Travel Channel is available in approximately 88.6 million domestic television households and is simulcast in HD.  We currently own 65.0 percent of Travel Channel. On January 6, 2016, we notified the owner of the non-controlling interest of our intention to execute our call option to purchase their interest, resulting in 100.0 percent ownership of Travel Channel (see Note 24 – Subsequent Events). 
Travel Channel programming content attracts travel enthusiasts and is a leading travel multi-media brand offering quality television, video and mobile entertainment and information. Travel Channel programming appeals to viewers who are more affluent than the average cable viewer and skews slightly toward adult men in the 18 to 49 age range. 
Programming on Travel Channel includes Hotel Impossible, Mysteries at the Museum, Bizarre Foods, Trip Flip, Booze Traveler, Expedition Unknown and Ghost Adventures.  Many of the programs on Travel Channel feature, or are hosted by, high-profile 
6

 
television personalities such as Andrew Zimmern, Samantha Brown, Don Wildman, Anthony Melchiorri, Bert Kreischer, Jack Maxwell, Josh Gates and Zak Bagans. 
DIY Network 
DIY Network is available in approximately 61.2 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD.  DIY Network programming provides entertaining and informational content across a broad range of do-it-yourself categories including home building, home improvement and renovations, gardening and landscaping.  DIY Network appeals more strongly to male viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. 
Programming on DIY Networks includes Rehab Addict, Vanilla Ice Project, Building Alaska, First Time Flippers, Tiny House Big Living and the various Crashers series. Many of the programs on DIY Network feature, or are hosted by, television personalities such as Nicole Curtis, Jason Cameron, Alison Victoria and Chris Lambton. 
Cooking Channel 
Cooking Channel is available in approximately 64.9 million domestic households and is simulcast in HD.  We currently own 68.7 percent of this network, which represents a controlling interest.  Tribune has a non-controlling interest of 31.3 percent in Cooking Channel. 
Cooking Channel programming caters to avid food lovers by focusing on food information and instructional cooking and delivers content focused on baking, ethnic cuisine, wine and spirits, healthy and vegetarian cooking and kids' foods.  The Cooking Channel appeals more strongly to female viewers with higher incomes in the 18 to 49 and 25 to 54 age ranges. 
Programming on Cooking Channel includes Carnival Eats, Unique Eats, Sweet Genius, Dinner at Tiffani’s, Food Fact or Fiction, Man Fire Food, Rev Run’s Sunday Suppers and Tia Mowry at Home.  Cooking Channel hosts include notable television personalities such as Haylie Duff, Tia Mowry, Rev Run and Justine Simmons and Tiffani Thiessen.
Great American Country 
Great American Country is available in approximately 58.1 million U.S. television households and is simulcast in HD. Great American Country provides its viewers with programming that celebrates the country lifestyle and includes the country music experience, music performance specials, live concerts and country music videos. 
Programming on Great American Country includes Going RV, Flea Market Flip, Log Cabin Living, Celebrity Motor Homes and the Top 20 Country Countdown. 
International Networks
International Networks generates revenues principally from advertising sales, affiliate fees and the licensing of programming to third parties.  Satellite transmission fees, programming expenses, employee costs and marketing and advertising expenses are the primary operating costs of International Networks.  
We currently broadcast 39 international channel feeds, reaching approximately 265 million cumulative subscribers under the HGTV, DIY, Food Network, AFC, Cooking Channel, Fine Living and Travel Channel brands, as well as the TVN network portfolio. Our broadcast networks are distributed in 29 languages, with channel feeds customized according to language in more than 175 countries and territories. In addition to the broadcast networks, we also license a portion of our programming to other broadcasters around the world. 
Internationally, we also have joint-venture partnerships with BBC Worldwide for UKTV and its suite of 10 general entertainment and lifestyle networks in the UK, Direct TV for Food Network Latin American (“FNLA”) in Latin America, and Shaw Media for HGTV, DIY Network and Food Network in Canada. Subsequent to year end, Corus Entertainment, Inc. entered into an agreement to acquire Shaw Media.
In 2010, the Company launched its first international pay-television channel through Food Network in the UK. The channel first launched on pay-television, then expanded its distribution in 2012 to free-to-air on Freeview, initially in primetime, and then as a full 24-hour broadcast channel in 2013. Currently, Food Network is the top lifestyle channel and the third most viewed non-scripted factual channel in the UK. Food Network is also available across EMEA, APAC and Latin America.
7

 
In 2014, the Company acquired AFC, a complementary channel brand to Food Network. AFC, which is based in Singapore, broadcasts 24 hours a day, seven days a week and reaches about 8.0 million subscribers in 11 markets.
Travel Channel International Ltd. (“TCI”) was acquired in 2013 along with its base of operations in London. TCI is broadcast in 21 languages across a wide network of affiliates throughout EMEA and APAC. In 2014, TCI also became available on Freeview in primetime in the UK.
In early 2014, we launched the Fine Living Network in Italy on the digital terrestrial television. Since its launch, over 40.0 percent of Italy’s television population has tuned into the channel. In late 2014, we launched HGTV in Singapore.  HGTV is the first channel dedicated to the home and lifestyle category across APAC.
During 2015 we also acquired TVN, which operates a portfolio of free-to-air and pay-TV lifestyle and entertainment networks, including TVN, TVN24, TVN Style, TTV, TVN Turbo, TVN24 Biznes i Świat.  Also included in TVN is TVN Media, an advertising sales house.
Competition
Cable, satellite and telecommunications network programming is a highly-competitive business in the U.S. and worldwide. Our television networks and interactive businesses generally compete for advertising revenue with other cable and broadcast television networks, online and mobile outlets, radio programming and print media. Our television networks and interactive business also compete for their target audiences with all forms of programming and other media provided to viewers, including broadcast networks, local over-the-air television stations, competitors’ pay and basic cable television networks and video-on-demand services, streaming services, online activities and other forms of news, information and entertainment. Additionally, our networks compete with other television networks for affiliate fees derived from distribution agreements with cable television and satellite operators, telecommunication service providers and other distributors.
Intellectual Property
Our intellectual property (“IP”) assets include copyrights in television content, trademarks and servicemarks in brands, names and logos, websites, and licenses from third parties.  To defend these assets, we rely upon a combination of common law, statutory and contractual legal protections.  There can be no assurance, however, of the degree to which these measures will be successful.  Moreover, effective IP protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories.  Policing unauthorized use of our products and services and related IP is difficult and costly.  Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of our IP from time to time, and the success of any such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of IP rights.  Irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on our operations.  In addition, piracy, which encompasses the theft of our signal and unauthorized use of our content in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues.
Regulatory Matters
The Company is subject to and affected by laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities as well as to the laws and regulations of international countries and bodies, such as the European Union (the “EU”). These laws and regulations are subject to change. Additionally, the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) regulates cable television and satellite operators and telecommunication providers, which could affect our networks indirectly.
Closed Captioning
All of our cable networks must provide closed-captioning programming for the hearing impaired.  The 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2011 also requires us to provide closed captioning on certain video programming that we offer on the internet.
CALM Act
FCC rules require multichannel video programming distributors to ensure that all commercials comply with specified volume standards.  Our affiliation agreements generally require us to certify compliance with such standards.
8

 
“Must-Carry” Requirements
The FCC’s implementation of the statutory “must-carry” obligations requires cable operators and multichannel video programming distributors to give broadcasters preferential access to channel space. In contrast, programming television networks, such as ours, have no guaranteed right of carriage on these systems. This may reduce the amount of channel space that is available for carriage of our television networks by these systems.
Regulation of the Internet and Mobile Applications
We operate numerous websites and make available mobile applications (“apps”) which we use to distribute information about our programs and to engage more deeply with our viewers.  The operation of these websites, video programming and apps are subject to a range of federal, state and local laws, such as privacy and consumer protection regulations.
Employees
As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 3,500 full-time equivalent employees globally.
 
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
A number of significant risk factors could materially affect our specific business operations and cause our performance to differ materially from any future results projected or implied by our prior statements. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our company. The risks and uncertainties our Company faces, however, are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described below.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.
In addition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods.
If any of the following risks or uncertainties develops into actual events, these events could have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common shares could decline.
Changes in public and consumer tastes and preferences could reduce demand for our services and reduce profitability of our businesses.
Each of our networks provides content and services whose success is primarily dependent upon acceptance by the public. We must consistently create and distribute offerings that appeal to the prevailing consumer tastes at any point in time. Audience preferences change frequently, and it is a challenge to anticipate what content will be successful at any point. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and the growing competition for consumer discretionary spending may also affect the audience for our content and services. If our networks do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, revenues may decline and adversely affect our profitability.
If we are unable to maintain distribution agreements with cable and satellite distributors and telecommunications service providers (“Distributors”) at acceptable rates and terms, our revenues and profitability could be negatively affected.
We enter into multi-year contracts for our national television networks with Distributors. Our long-term distribution arrangements enable us to reach a large percentage of cable households across the United States. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate them. If we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms or at rates similar to those in other affiliate contracts, we may lose distribution rights and/or affiliate fee revenues.
These distribution agreements may also include “most favored nation” (“MFN”) clauses. Such clauses typically provide that, in the event we enter into an agreement with another Distributor on more favorable terms, those terms must be offered to the Distributor holding the MFN right, subject to certain exceptions and conditions. The MFN clauses within our distribution agreements are generally complex. Parties may interpret them differently and reach a conflicting view of compliance of that held by the Company, which, if proven correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
9

 
The loss of a significant affiliate arrangement on basic programming tiers could reduce distribution of our networks, thereby adversely affecting affiliate fee revenue, subjecting certain of our intangible assets to possible impairments and potentially impacting our ability to sell advertising or the rates we charge for such advertising.
Three of our networks that are carried on digital tiers are dependent upon the willingness of consumers to pay for such tiers, as well as our ability to negotiate favorable carriage agreements on widely accepted digital tiers.
Further consolidation among cable and satellite operators and telecommunications service providers could adversely affect our revenues, profitability and financial condition of our businesses. Consolidation among Distributors has given the largest cable and satellite television systems considerable leverage in their relationship with programmers. The two largest cable and the two largest satellite television system operators provide service to approximately 69 percent of U.S. households receiving cable or satellite television service today. 
Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of Distributors available to carry our programming, subject our affiliate fee revenue to greater volume discounts and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators and telecommunications service providers which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.
Our networks face significant competitive pressures related to attracting consumers and advertisers.  Failure by us to maintain our competitive advantage may affect the profitability of our networks.
We face substantial competition from alternative providers of similar services. Our national television networks compete for viewers with other broadcast and national television networks and with home video products and internet usage, as well as with other programming providers for carriage of programming. Additionally, our national television networks compete for advertising revenues with a variety of other media alternatives, including other broadcast and national television networks, the internet, newspapers, radio stations and print media. Our websites compete for visitors and advertising dollars with other forms of media aimed at attracting similar audiences and, therefore, must provide popular content in order to maintain and increase site traffic. Competition may divert consumers from our services, which could reduce the profitability of our networks.
Changes in consumer behavior resulting from new technologies and distribution platforms may impact the performance of our networks.
We must adapt to advances in technologies and distribution platforms related to content transfer to ensure that our content remains desirable and widely available to our audiences. The ability to anticipate and take advantage of new and future sources of revenue from technological developments will affect our ability to continue to increase our revenue and expand our business. Additionally, we must adapt to the changing consumer behavior driven by advances in technology, such as video-on-demand, and devices, such as tablets and mobile, providing consumers the ability to view content from remote locations and enabling general preferences for user-generated and interactive content. Changes of these types may impact our traditional distribution methods for our content. If we cannot ensure that our distribution methods and content allow us to reach our target audiences, there could be a negative effect on our business.
Our business is subject to risks of adverse changes in laws and regulations.
Our programming services and the distributors of our programming, including cable and satellite operators, telecommunication providers and internet companies, are regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC, as well as by state and local governments. The U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect our operations. For example, legislators and regulators continue to consider rules that would effectively require cable television operators to offer all programming on an à la carte basis, which would allow viewers to subscribe to individual networks rather than a package of networks, and/or require programmers to sell channels to distributors on an à la carte basis. Certain cable television operators and other distributors have already introduced tiers, or more targeted network packages, to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. The unbundling of programming could reduce distribution of certain of our networks, thereby leading to reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses and affecting our ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars or distribution fees.
10

 
Changes in economic conditions in the United States, the regional economies in which we operate or in specific industry sectors could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses.
Approximately 61.3 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2015 were derived from marketing and advertising spending in the United States and approximately 6.0 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2015 were derived from marketing and advertising spending in Poland including revenues from our advertising representation business in Poland. Advertising and marketing spending is sensitive to economic conditions and tends to decline in recessionary periods. A global or regional economic decline could reduce advertising prices and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues.
The loss of key talent or inability to identify and locate new and engaging talent could disrupt our business and adversely affect the profitability of our businesses.
Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. We employ or contract with entertainment personalities who may have loyal audiences. These individuals are important to audience endorsement of our programs and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or retain their current audiences. If we fail to retain key individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current audience base, our operations could be adversely affected.
We are subject to risks related to our international operations.
We have operations and investments in a number of foreign jurisdictions. The inherent economic risks of doing business in international markets that are beyond our control include, among other things (i) changes in the economic environment, (ii) changes in local regulatory requirements, including restrictions on content, imposition of local content quotas and restrictions on foreign ownership, (iii) differing degrees of protection for intellectual property and varying attitudes towards the piracy of intellectual property, (iv) exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers, (v) foreign taxation, (vi) anti-corruption laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act that impose stringent requirements on how we conduct our foreign operations and changes in these laws and regulations, (vii) foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulation and changes in these laws, (viii) shifting consumer preferences regarding the viewing of video programming, (ix) corruption, (x) confiscation, (xi) currency inconvertibility, (xii) nationalization of assets and (xiii), in some markets, increased risk of economic and geopolitical instability. Additionally, the local currencies in which our international operations conduct their business could change in value relative to the U.S. dollar, exposing our results to exchange rate fluctuations.
Events or developments related to these and other risks associated with international trade could adversely affect our revenues from non-U.S. sources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects.
Furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by current economic conditions than the U.S. We also may incur substantial expense as a result of changes, including the imposition of new restrictions, in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business. Acts of terrorism, hostilities, or financial, political, economic or other uncertainties could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our results of operations.
 
Global economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our business.
 
Our business is significantly affected by prevailing economic conditions and by disruptions to financial markets. We derive substantial revenues from advertisers, and these expenditures are sensitive to general economic conditions and consumer buying patterns. Financial instability or a general decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries where our networks are distributed could adversely affect advertising rates and volume, resulting in a decrease in our advertising revenues.
 
Decreases in U.S. and consumer discretionary spending in other countries where our networks are distributed may affect cable television and other video service subscriptions, in particular with respect to digital service tiers on which certain of our programming networks are carried. This could lead to a decrease in the number of subscribers receiving our programming from multi-channel video programming distributors, which could have a negative impact on our viewing subscribers and affiliation fee revenues. Similarly, a decrease in viewing subscribers would also have a negative impact on the number of viewers actually watching the programs on our programming networks, which could also impact the rates we are able to charge advertisers.
 
Economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide and impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. Economic conditions can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. The general worsening of current global economic conditions could 
11

 
adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, and the worsening of economic conditions in certain parts of the world, specifically, could impact the expansion and success of our businesses in such areas.
We assumed significant debt in connection with our acquisition of TVN, and we may incur additional debt in the future. Such debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
In connection with our acquisition of TVN and the related financing, we incurred additional debt, including the assumption of existing TVN debt (see Note 4 – Acquisitions). We currently depend on cash on hand and cash flows from operations to make scheduled principal and cash interest payments on our debt. We expect to be able to meet the estimated principal and interest payments on our debt through a combination of cash on hand, expected cash flows from operations and the use of our revolving credit facility. Additionally, we may incur further debt in the future for other corporate purposes.
The potentially significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include:




 

·

limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, service line development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes;




 

·

instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances would have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding debt;




 

·

the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs and capital expenditures, that could improve our competitive position, results of operations or share price;




 

·

requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations;




 

·

exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates, as certain of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest;




 

·

increasing our vulnerability to downturns or adverse changes in general economic, industry or competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulations;




 

·

compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions;




 

·

the possibility that we could be put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors that do not have as much debt as we do and competitors that may be in a more favorable position to access additional capital resources; and




 

·

limitations on our ability to execute business development and acquisition activities to support our strategies.
 
Our operations outside the United States may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions.
 
Our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather than U.S. law. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the U.S., and these differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business and our rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. law.    
 
Moreover, enforcement of laws in some overseas jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. In addition, the business and political climate in some jurisdictions may encourage corruption, which could reduce our ability to compete successfully in those jurisdictions while remaining in compliance with local laws or United States anti-corruption laws applicable to our businesses. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law governed these operations.
We face cybersecurity and similar risks, which could result in the disclosure of confidential information, disruption of our programming services, damage to our brands and reputation, legal exposure and financial losses
Our online, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal systems, involve the storage and transmission of our and our users’ proprietary information, and we and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming. Although we monitor our security measures regularly, they may be breached due to employee error, computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently 
12

 
induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our or our users’ proprietary information, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services and significant legal and financial exposure, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.
If we are unable to successfully integrate key acquisitions, our business results could be negatively impacted.
We may continue to grow through acquisitions in certain markets. Acquisitions involve risks, including difficulties in integrating acquired operations, diversions of management resources, debt incurred in financing such acquisitions and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, the integration and operations of an acquired business could be adversely impacted. Similarly, declines in business performance and the related effect on the fair values of goodwill and other intangible assets could trigger impairment charges, which could materially affect our reported net earnings.
Financial market conditions may impede access to or increase the cost of financing our operations and investments.
The on-going changes in U.S. and global credit and equity markets may make it more difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on our performance as measured by credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing or make it more difficult for us to obtain future financing.
 
Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect our operating results and financial conditions. 
 
We have significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of our operations are conducted and certain of our debt obligations are denominated in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased. As a result, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and net asset balances. There is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain unchanged in any period or for any specific market. 
Events that reflect negatively on our brands could diminish our brand reputation.
Any event that could negatively impact our brands and brand reputation could have a material impact to our consolidated earnings. 
 
Variability in our earnings may result in disparate tax impacts. 
 
We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates.
Loss of satellite signal or transmission may affect profitability of our business.
Our revenues rely on our ability to stay on air to broadcast our content to a wide variety of audiences.  Any outages in delivery, whether due to satellite or fiber transmission disruption, could impede our ability to delivery audience impressions and result in additional liabilities and reduced revenue streams. 
 
The concentrated ownership of our Common Voting Shares limits the ability of the holders of our class A common shares to influence corporate matters. 
 
We have two classes of common stock: common voting shares and class A common shares. Holders of class A common shares are entitled to elect the greater of three or one-third of the members of the Board of Directors (the “Board”), but are not permitted to vote on any other matters except as required by Ohio law. Holders of common voting shares are entitled to elect the remainder of the Board and to vote on all other matters. Approximately 92 percent of the common voting shares are subject to the Amended and Restated Scripps Family Agreement (the “Scripps Family Agreement”). The provisions of the Scripps Family Agreement fully govern the transfer and voting of common voting shares subject to the agreement. As a result, the holders of the common voting shares subject to 
13

 
the Scripps Family Agreement currently have the ability to elect two-thirds of the Board and to direct the outcome of any matter that does not require a vote of the class A common shares. Additionally, some of the signatories to the Scripps Family Agreement are also directors of the Company, which could create conflicts of interest in certain situations. This concentrated control limits the ability of the holders of class A common shares to influence corporate matters and could potentially enable the Company to take actions that these shareholders would not view as beneficial. As a result, the market price of our class A common shares could be adversely affected.
ITEM 1B