Item 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    In addition to the other information in this
    Form 10-K,
    including MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS –
    FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL in Item 7 of each registrant, and
    other documents filed by Southern Company
    and/or its
    subsidiaries with the SEC from time to time, the following
    factors should be carefully considered in evaluating Southern
    Company and its subsidiaries. Such factors could affect actual
    results and cause results to differ materially from 



    
    I-12



Table of Contents




    those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by, or
    on behalf of, Southern Company
    and/or its
    subsidiaries.


 



    Risks
    Related to the Energy Industry 


 


    Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject to
    substantial governmental regulation. Compliance with current and
    future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary
    approvals, permits and certificates may result in substantial
    costs to Southern Company and its subsidiaries.


 


    Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional
    operating companies and Southern Power, are subject to
    substantial regulation from federal, state and local regulatory
    agencies. Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to
    comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous
    permits, approvals and certificates from the governmental
    agencies that regulate various aspects of their businesses,
    including customer rates, service regulations, retail service
    territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales,
    accounting policies and practices and the operation of
    fossil-fuel, hydroelectric and nuclear generating facilities.
    For example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the
    traditional operating companies and by Southern Power must be
    approved by the FERC. In addition, the respective state PSCs
    must approve the traditional operating companies’ rates for
    retail customers. While the retail rates approved by the
    respective state PSCs are designed to provide for recovery of
    costs and a return on invested capital, there can be no
    assurance that a state PSC will not deem certain costs to be
    imprudently incurred and not subject to recovery.


 


    Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary
    permits, approvals and certificates have been obtained for its
    existing operations and that their respective businesses are
    conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the
    impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of
    existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations
    applicable to Southern Company or any of its subsidiaries cannot
    now be predicted. Changes in regulation or the imposition of
    additional regulations could influence the operating environment
    of Southern Company and its subsidiaries and may result in
    substantial costs.


 



    General
    Risks Related to Operation of Southern Company’s Utility
    Subsidiaries


 


    The regional power market in which Southern Company and its
    utility subsidiaries compete may have changing transmission
    regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these
    assets and related revenues and expenses.


 


    The traditional operating companies currently own and operate
    transmission facilities as part of a vertically integrated
    utility. Transmission revenues are not separated from generation
    and distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. Since
    1999, when the FERC issued final rules on RTOs, there have been
    a number of proceedings at FERC designed to encourage further
    voluntary formation of RTOs or to mandate their formation. Under
    this new transmission regulatory structure, the traditional
    operating companies could transfer functional control (but not
    ownership) of their transmission facilities to an independent
    third party. While there are no active proceedings at FERC that
    would require Southern Company to participate in a RTO, current
    FERC efforts that may potentially change the regulatory
    and/or
    operational structure of transmission include rules related to
    the standardization of generation interconnection, as well as an
    inquiry into, among other things, market power by vertically
    integrated utilities. The financial condition, net income and
    cash flows of Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries
    could be adversely affected by future changes in the federal
    regulatory or operational structure of transmission.


 


    Certain events in the energy markets that are beyond the
    control of Southern Company and its subsidiaries have increased
    the level of public and regulatory scrutiny in the energy
    industry and in the capital markets. The reaction to these
    events may result in new laws or regulations related to the
    business operations or the accounting treatment of the existing
    operations of Southern Company and its subsidiaries which could
    have a negative impact on the net income or access to capital of
    Southern Company and its subsidiaries.


 


    As a result of the energy crisis in California during the summer
    of 2001, the Enron Corporation bankruptcy, investigations by
    governmental authorities into energy trading activities and the
    August 2003 power outage in the Northeast, companies in
    regulated and unregulated electric utility businesses have been
    under an increased amount of public and regulatory scrutiny with
    respect to, among other things, accounting practices, financial
    disclosures and relationships with independent auditors. This
    increased scrutiny has led to substantial changes in laws and
    regulations affecting Southern Company and its subsidiaries,
    including, among others, enhanced internal control and auditor
    independence requirements, financial statement certification
    requirements, more frequent SEC reviews of financial statements
    and accelerated and additional SEC filing requirements. New
    accounting and disclosure requirements have changed the way
    Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to record
    revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. Southern Company
    expects continued regulatory focus on accounting and financial
    reporting issues. Future



    
    I-13



Table of Contents




    disruptions in the industry such as those described above and
    any additional resulting regulations may have a negative impact
    on the net income or access to capital of Southern Company and
    its subsidiaries.


 


    Deregulation or restructuring in the electric industry may
    result in increased competition and unrecovered costs which
    could negatively impact the net income of Southern Company and
    the traditional operating companies and the value of their
    respective assets.


 


    Increased competition, which may result from restructuring
    efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on
    Southern Company and its traditional operating companies.
    Increased competition could result in increased pressure to
    lower the cost of electricity. Any adoption in the territories
    served by the traditional operating companies of retail
    competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could
    have a significant adverse financial impact on Southern Company
    and the traditional operating companies due to an impairment of
    assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins, an
    inability to recover reasonable costs or increased costs of
    capital. Southern Company and the traditional operating
    companies cannot predict if or when they may be subject to
    changes in legislation or regulation, nor can Southern Company
    and the traditional operating companies predict the impact of
    these changes.


 


    Additionally, the electric utility industry has experienced a
    substantial increase in competition at the wholesale level. As a
    result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy,
    competition in the wholesale electricity market has greatly
    increased due to a greater participation by traditional
    electricity suppliers, non-utility generators, IPPs, wholesale
    power marketers and brokers and due to the trading of energy
    futures contracts on various commodities exchanges. In addition,
    FERC rules on transmission service are designed to facilitate
    competition in the wholesale market on a nationwide basis by
    providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale
    power customers.


 


    Potential changes to the criteria used by the FERC for
    approval of market-based contracts may negatively impact the
    traditional operating companies’ and Southern Power’s
    ability to charge market-based rates.


 


    Each of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power
    have authorization from the FERC to sell power to nonaffiliates,
    including short-term opportunity sales, at market-based prices.
    Specific FERC approval must be obtained with respect to a
    market-based sale to an affiliate. In December 2004, the FERC
    initiated a proceeding to assess Southern Company’s
    generation dominance within its retail service territory. The
    ability to charge market-based rates in other markets is not an
    issue in that proceeding. Any new market-based rate sales by any
    subsidiary of Southern Company in Southern Company’s retail
    service territory entered into during a
    15-month
    refund period beginning February 27, 2005 could be subject
    to refund to the level of the default cost-based rates, pending
    the outcome of the proceeding. Such sales through May 27,
    2006, the end of the refund period were approximately
    $19.7 million for the Southern Company system. In the event
    that FERC’s default mitigation measures for entities that
    are found to have market power are ultimately applied, the
    traditional operating companies and Southern Power may be
    required to charge cost-based rates for certain wholesale sales
    in the Southern Company retail service territory, which may be
    lower than negotiated market-based rates.


 


    In addition, in May 2005 the FERC started an investigation to
    determine whether Southern Company satisfies the other three
    parts of FERC’s market-based rate analysis: transmission
    market power, barriers to entry and affiliate abuse or
    reciprocal dealing. The FERC established a new
    15-month
    refund period related to this expanded investigation. Any new
    market-based rate sales involving any Southern Company
    subsidiary could be subject to refund to the extent the FERC
    orders lower rates as a result of this new investigation. Such
    sales through October 19, 2006, the end of the refund
    period, were approximately $55.4 million for the Southern
    Company system, of which $15.5 million relates to sales
    inside the retail service territory discussed above.


 



    Risks
    Related to Environmental Regulation


 


    Southern Company’s and the traditional operating
    companies’ costs of compliance with environmental laws are
    significant. The costs of compliance with future environmental
    laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could
    negatively impact the net income and cash flows of Southern
    Company, the traditional operating companies or Southern
    Power.


 


    Southern Company and the traditional operating companies are
    subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental
    requirements which, among other things, regulate air emissions,
    water discharges and the management of hazardous and solid waste
    in order to adequately protect the environment. Compliance with
    these legal requirements requires Southern Company and the
    traditional operating companies to commit significant
    expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment,
    environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of
    their respective facilities. These expenditures are significant
    and Southern Company and the traditional operating companies
    expect that they will increase in the future. Through 2006,
    Southern Company had invested approximately $3.1 billion in
    capital projects



    
    I-14



Table of Contents




    to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of
    $661 million, $423 million and $300 million for
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Southern Company expects that
    capital expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new
    regulations will be an additional $1.66 billion,
    $1.65 billion and $1.27 billion for 2007, 2008 and
    2009, respectively. Because Southern Company’s compliance
    strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental laws
    and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory
    of emission allowances, and Southern Company’s fuel mix,
    the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time.


 


    Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various
    types, including property damage, personal injury, and citizen
    enforcement of environmental requirements, such as opacity and
    other air quality standards, has increased generally throughout
    the United States. In particular, personal injury claims for
    damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous materials have
    become more frequent.


 


    If Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or
    Southern Power fail to comply with environmental laws and
    regulations, even if caused by factors beyond their control,
    that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal
    penalties and fines. The EPA has filed civil actions against
    Alabama Power and Georgia Power alleging violations of the new
    source review provisions of the Clean Air Act. Southern Company
    is a party to suits alleging its emissions of carbon dioxide, a
    greenhouse gas, contribute to global warming. An adverse outcome
    in any one of these cases could require substantial capital
    expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could
    possibly require the payment of substantial penalties. This
    could affect future results of operations, cash flows, and
    possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered
    through regulated rates.


 


    Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or
    new laws and regulations related to global climate change, air
    quality or other environmental and health concerns may be
    adopted or become applicable to Southern Company, the
    traditional operating companies and Southern Power. Revised or
    additional laws and regulations could result in significant
    additional expense and operating restrictions on the facilities
    of the traditional operating companies or Southern Power or
    increased compliance costs which may not be fully recoverable
    from customers and would therefore reduce the net income of
    Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or
    Southern Power. The cost impact of such legislation would depend
    upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined
    at this time.


 



    Risks
    Related to Southern Company and its Business


 


    Southern Company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future
    financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock
    if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or
    repay funds to Southern Company.


 


    Southern Company is a holding company and, as such, Southern
    Company has no operations of its own. Substantially all of
    Southern Company’s consolidated assets are held by
    subsidiaries. Southern Company’s ability to meet its
    financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock
    at the current rate is primarily dependent on the net income and
    cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay upstream
    dividends or to repay funds to Southern Company. Prior to
    funding Southern Company, Southern Company’s subsidiaries
    have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including
    among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock
    dividends. Southern Company’s subsidiaries are separate
    legal entities and have no obligation to provide Southern
    Company with funds for its payment obligations.


 


    The financial performance of Southern Company and its
    subsidiaries may be adversely affected if its subsidiaries are
    unable to successfully operate their facilities.


 


    Southern Company’s financial performance depends on the
    successful operation of its subsidiaries’ electric
    generating, transmission and distribution facilities. Operating
    these facilities involves many risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment or
    processes;






     
        •  

    
    operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or
    other regulatory requirements;






     
        •  

    
    labor disputes;






     
        •  

    
    terrorist attacks;






     
        •  

    
    fuel or material supply interruptions;






     
        •  

    
    compliance with mandatory reliability standards if
    adopted; and






     
        •  

    
    catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions,
    floods, hurricanes, pandemic health events such as an avian
    influenza or other similar occurrences.





 


    A decrease or elimination of revenues from power produced by the
    electric generating facilities or an increase in the cost of
    operating the facilities would reduce the net income and cash
    flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of the
    affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of
    Southern Company.


 


    The revenues of Southern Company, the traditional operating
    companies and Southern Power depend in 



    
    I-15



Table of Contents




    part on sales under PPAs. The failure of a counterparty to
    one of these PPAs to perform its obligations, or the failure to
    renew the PPAs, could have a negative impact on the net income
    and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or
    Southern Power and of Southern Company.


 


    Most of Southern Power’s generating capacity has been sold
    to purchasers under PPAs having initial terms of five to
    15 years. In addition, the traditional operating companies
    enter into PPAs with non-affiliated parties. Revenues are
    dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of
    their obligations under these PPAs. Even though Southern Power
    and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit
    evaluation, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its
    obligations could have a negative impact on the net income and
    cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or
    Southern Power and of Southern Company. Although these credit
    evaluations take into account the possibility of default by a
    purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be
    greater than the credit evaluation predicts. Neither Southern
    Power nor the traditional operating companies can predict
    whether the PPAs will be renewed at the end of their respective
    terms or on what terms any renewals may be made. If a PPA is not
    renewed, a replacement PPA cannot be assured.


 


    Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and
    Southern Power may incur additional costs or delays in the
    construction of new plants or environmental facilities and may
    not be able to recover their investment. The facilities of
    Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and
    Southern Power require ongoing capital expenditures.


 


    Certain of the traditional operating companies and Southern
    Power are in the process of constructing new generating
    facilities and adding environmental controls equipment at
    existing generating facilities. Southern Company intends to
    continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new
    facilities, expanding existing facilities and adding
    environmental control equipment. The completion of these types
    of projects without delays or cost overruns is subject to
    substantial risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials and
    labor;






     
        •  

    
    work stoppages;






     
        •  

    
    permits, approvals and other regulatory matters;






     
        •  

    
    adverse weather conditions;






     
        •  

    
    unforeseen engineering problems;






     
        •  

    
    environmental and geological conditions;






     
        •  

    
    delays or increased costs to interconnect its facilities to
    transmission grids;






     
        •  

    
    unanticipated cost increases; and






     
        •  

    
    attention to other projects.





 


    Tightening labor markets in the Southeast and increasing costs
    of materials have resulted in increasing cost estimates for
    Southern Company’s subsidiaries’ construction
    projects. If a traditional operating company or Southern Power
    is unable to complete the development or construction of a
    facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a
    facility, it may not be able to recover its investment in that
    facility. In addition, construction delays and contractor
    performance shortfalls can result in the loss of revenues and
    may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial
    position of a traditional operating company or Southern Power
    and of Southern Company. Furthermore, if construction projects
    are not completed according to specification, a traditional
    operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company may
    incur liabilities and suffer reduced plant efficiency, higher
    operating costs and reduced net income.


 


    Once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital
    expenditures are required to maintain reliable levels of
    operation. Significant portions of the traditional operating
    companies’ existing facilities were constructed many years
    ago. Older generation equipment, even if maintained in
    accordance with good engineering practices, may require
    significant capital expenditures to maintain efficiency, to
    comply with changing environmental requirements or to provide
    reliable operations.


 


    Changes in technology may make Southern Company’s
    electric generating facilities owned by the traditional
    operating companies and Southern Power less competitive.


 


    A key element of the business model of Southern Company, the
    traditional operating companies and Southern Power is that
    generating power at central power plants achieves economies of
    scale and produces power at relatively low cost. There are other
    technologies that produce power, most notably fuel cells,
    microturbines, windmills and solar cells. It is possible that
    advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative
    methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with
    that of most central power station electric production. If this
    were to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of
    scale, the market share of Southern Company, the traditional
    operating companies and Southern Power could be eroded, and the
    value of their respective electric generating facilities could
    be reduced. Changes in technology could also alter the channels
    through which retail electric customers buy or utilize power,
    which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of
    Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or
    Southern Power.


 


    Operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks,
    including environmental, health, regulatory, terrorism and
    financial risks that could result in fines or the 



    
    I-16



Table of Contents




    closure of Southern Company’s nuclear units owned by
    Alabama Power or Georgia Power, and which may present potential
    exposures in excess of insurance coverage.


 


    Alabama Power owns two nuclear units and Georgia Power holds
    undivided interests in, and contracts for operation of, four
    nuclear units. These six units are operated by Southern Nuclear
    and represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 9.1%, of
    Southern Company’s generation capacity as of
    December 31, 2006. These nuclear facilities are subject to
    environmental, health and financial risks such as
    on-site
    storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such
    spent nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves
    for decommissioning, potential liabilities arising out of the
    operation of these facilities and the threat of a possible
    terrorist attack. Alabama Power and Georgia Power maintain
    decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to
    minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is
    possible that damages could exceed the amount of insurance
    coverage.


 


    The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose
    licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of
    nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance,
    the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit,
    or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the
    situation, until compliance is achieved. NRC orders or new
    regulations related to increased security measures and any
    future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require
    Alabama Power and Georgia Power to make substantial operating
    and capital expenditures at their nuclear plants. In addition,
    although Alabama Power, Georgia Power and Southern Company have
    no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their
    plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in substantial
    costs to Alabama Power or Georgia Power and Southern Company. A
    major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world could
    cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of
    any domestic nuclear unit.


 


    In addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public
    scrutiny of utilities could result in increased nuclear
    licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible
    to predict.


 


    The generation and energy marketing operations of Southern
    Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power
    are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their control,
    including changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may
    reduce Southern Company’s, the traditional operating
    companies’ and Southern Power’s revenues and increase
    costs.


 


    The generation and energy marketing operations of Southern
    Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power
    are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which
    could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the
    amount Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and
    Southern Power receive from the sale of power. The market prices
    for these commodities may fluctuate over relatively short
    periods of time. Southern Company, the traditional operating
    companies and Southern Power attempt to mitigate risks
    associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on
    to customers through the traditional operating companies’
    fuel cost recovery clauses or through PPAs. Among the factors
    that could influence power prices and fuel costs are:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel
    oil and other fuels used in the generation facilities of the
    traditional operating companies and Southern Power including
    associated transportation costs, and supplies of such
    commodities;






     
        •  

    
    demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of
    energy available from current or new competitors;






     
        •  

    
    liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market;






     
        •  

    
    weather conditions impacting demand for electricity;






     
        •  

    
    seasonality;






     
        •  

    
    transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies;






     
        •  

    
    availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources;






     
        •  

    
    forced or unscheduled plant outages for the Southern Company
    system, its competitors or third party providers;






     
        •  

    
    the financial condition of market participants;






     
        •  

    
    the economy in the service territory and in general, including
    the impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial
    demand for electricity;






     
        •  

    
    natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism and other
    catastrophic events; and






     
        •  

    
    federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation
    and legislation.





 


    Certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the
    traditional operating companies or Southern Power and Southern
    Company. For the traditional operating companies, such increases
    may not be fully recoverable through rates. Other of these
    factors could reduce the revenues of the traditional operating
    companies or Southern Power and Southern Company.


 


    As a result of increasing fuel costs, the traditional operating
    companies have accrued significant



    
    I-17



Table of Contents




    underrecovered fuel cost balances. In addition, Gulf Power and
    Mississippi Power have significant deficit balances in their
    storm cost recovery reserves as a result of Hurricanes Ivan,
    Dennis and Katrina. The traditional operating companies may
    experience similar deficit balances following future storms.
    While the traditional operating companies are generally
    authorized to recover underrecovered fuel costs through
    fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs through
    special rate provisions administered by the
    respective PSCs, recovery may be denied if costs are
    deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the
    authorization of such recovery could negatively impact the cash
    flows of the affected traditional operating companies and
    Southern Company.


 


    The use of derivative contracts by Southern Company and its
    subsidiaries in the normal course of business could result in
    financial losses that negatively impact the net income of
    Southern Company and its subsidiaries.


 


    Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional
    operating companies and Southern Power, use derivative
    instruments, such as swaps, options, futures and forwards, to
    manage their commodity and financial market risks and, to a
    lesser extent, engage in limited trading activities. Southern
    Company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as
    a result of volatility in the market values of these contracts
    or if a counterparty fails to perform. In the absence of
    actively quoted market prices and pricing information from
    external sources, the valuation of these financial instruments
    can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates. As a
    result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of
    alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the
    reported fair value of these contracts.


 


    The traditional operating companies and Southern Power may
    not be able to obtain adequate fuel supplies, which could limit
    their ability to operate their facilities.


 


    The traditional operating companies and Southern Power purchase
    fuel, including coal, natural gas, uranium and fuel oil, from a
    number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel,
    including disruptions as a result of, among other things,
    transportation delays, weather, labor relations, force majuere
    events or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel
    suppliers, could limit the ability of the traditional operating
    companies and Southern Power to operate their respective
    facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected
    traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern
    Company.


 


    The traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for
    much of their electric generating capacity. Each traditional
    operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however,
    there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these
    agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to the
    traditional operating companies. The suppliers under these
    agreements may experience financial or technical problems which
    inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to the
    traditional operating companies. In addition, the suppliers
    under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to the
    traditional operating companies under certain circumstances,
    such as in the event of a natural disaster. If the traditional
    operating companies are unable to obtain their coal requirements
    under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may
    be required to purchase their coal requirements at higher
    prices, which may not be fully recoverable through rates.


 


    In addition, Southern Power in particular, and the traditional
    operating companies to a lesser extent, are dependent on natural
    gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. Natural
    gas supplies can be subject to disruption in the event
    production or distribution is curtailed. For example, in
    connection with the 2005 hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico,
    production and distribution of natural gas was limited for a
    period of time, resulting in shortages and significant increases
    in the price of natural gas. In addition, world market
    conditions for fuels, including the policies of the Organization
    of Petroleum Exporting Countries, can impact the price and
    availability of natural gas.


 


    Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in
    increased costs for purchasing capacity in the open market or
    building additional generation capabilities.


 


    Through the traditional operating companies and Southern Power,
    Southern Company is currently obligated to supply power to
    retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term PPAs.
    At peak times, the demand for power required to meet this
    obligation could exceed Southern Company’s available
    generation capacity. Market or competitive forces may require
    that the traditional operating companies or Southern Power
    purchase capacity on the open market or build additional
    generation capabilities. Because regulators may not permit the
    traditional operating companies to pass all of these purchase or
    construction costs on to their customers, the traditional
    operating companies may not be able to recover any of these
    costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag associated with the
    time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed
    capacity and the traditional operating companies’ recovery
    in customers’ rates. Under Southern Power’s long-term
    fixed price PPAs, Southern Power would not have the ability to
    recover any of these costs. These situations could have negative
    impacts on net income and cash flows for the



    
    I-18



Table of Contents




    affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and
    Southern Company.


 


    The operating results of Southern Company, the traditional
    operating companies and Southern Power are affected by weather
    conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly
    basis.


 


    Electric power generation is generally a seasonal business. In
    many parts of the country, demand for power peaks during the hot
    summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In
    other areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result,
    the overall operating results of Southern Company, the
    traditional operating companies and Southern Power in the future
    may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition,
    Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and
    Southern Power have historically sold less power, and
    consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are
    milder. Unusually mild weather in the future could reduce the
    revenues, net income, available cash and borrowing ability of
    Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and
    Southern Power.


 


    Mirant and The Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of
    Mirant Corporation have filed a claim against Southern Company
    seeking substantial monetary damages in connection with
    transfers made by Mirant to Southern Company prior to the Mirant
    spin-off.


 


    In July 2003, Mirant filed for voluntary reorganization under
    Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. In January 2006,
    Mirant’s plan of reorganization became effective, and
    Mirant emerged from bankruptcy.


 


    In 2005, Mirant, as debtor in possession, and The Official
    Committee of Unsecured Creditors of Mirant Corporation filed a
    complaint against Southern Company in the U.S. Bankruptcy
    Court for the Northern District of Texas, which was amended in
    July 2005, February 2006 and May 2006. The third amended
    complaint (the complaint) alleges that Southern Company caused
    Mirant to engage in certain fraudulent transfers and to pay
    illegal dividends to Southern Company prior to the spin-off. The
    complaint also seeks to recharacterize certain advances from
    Southern Company to Mirant for investments in energy facilities
    from debt to equity. The complaint further alleges that Southern
    Company is liable to Mirant’s creditors for the full amount
    of Mirant’s liability and that Southern Company breached
    its fiduciary duties to Mirant and its creditors, caused Mirant
    to breach fiduciary duties to its creditors, and aided and
    abetted breaches of fiduciary duties by Mirant’s directors
    and officers. The complaint also seeks recoveries under theories
    of restitution, unjust enrichment, and alter ego. The complaint
    seeks monetary damages in excess of $2 billion plus
    interest, punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, and costs.
    Finally, the complaint includes an objection to Southern
    Company’s pending claims against Mirant in the Bankruptcy
    Court (which relate to reimbursement under the separation
    agreements of payments such as income taxes, interest, legal
    fees, and other guarantees described in Note 7 to the
    financial statements of Southern Company in Item 8 herein)
    and seeks equitable subordination of Southern Company’s
    claims to the claims of all other creditors. Southern Company
    served an answer to the complaint in June 2006.


 


    On January 10, 2006, the U.S. District Court for the
    Northern District of Texas granted Southern Company’s
    motion to withdraw this action from the Bankruptcy Court and, on
    February 15, 2006, granted Southern Company’s motion
    to transfer the case to the U.S. District Court for the
    Northern District of Georgia. On May 19, 2006, Southern
    Company filed a motion for summary judgment seeking entry of
    judgment against the plaintiff as to all counts of the
    complaint. On December 11, 2006, the U.S. District
    Court for the Northern District of Georgia granted in part and
    denied in part the motion. As a result, certain breach of
    fiduciary duty claims are barred; all other claims in the
    complaint may proceed. Southern Company believes there is no
    meritorious basis for the claims in the complaint and is
    vigorously defending itself in this action. However, the final
    outcome of this matter cannot now be determined.


 


    IRS challenges to Southern Company’s income tax
    deductions taken in connection with four international leveraged
    lease transactions could result in the payment of substantial
    additional interest and penalties and could materially impact
    Southern Company’s cash flow and net income.


 


    Southern Company participates in four international leveraged
    lease transactions and receives federal income tax deductions
    for depreciation and amortization, as well as interest on
    related debt. In connection with its audit of Southern
    Company’s tax returns for 1996 through 2001, the IRS
    proposed to disallow Southern Company’s tax losses related
    to one international leveraged lease (a
    lease-in-lease-out,
    or LILO) transaction. In February 2005, Southern Company reached
    a negotiated settlement with the IRS relating to this matter,
    which is now final.


 


    In connection with its audit of 2000 and 2001, the IRS also
    challenged Southern Company’s deductions related to three
    other international lease
    (sale-in-lease-out,
    or SILO) transactions. In the third quarter 2006, Southern
    Company paid the full amount of the disputed tax and the
    applicable interest on the SILO issue for tax years
    2000-2001
    and filed a claim for refund which has been denied by the IRS.
    The disputed tax amount is $79 million and the related
    interest is approximately $24 million for these tax years.
    This payment, and the subsequent IRS disallowance of the refund
    claim, closed the issue with



    
    I-19



Table of Contents




    the IRS and Southern Company plans to proceed with litigation.
    The IRS has also raised the SILO issues for tax years 2002 and
    2003. The estimated amount of disputed tax and interest for
    these years is approximately $83 million and
    $15 million, respectively. The tax and interest for these
    tax years was paid to the IRS in the fourth quarter 2006.
    Southern Company has accounted for both payments in 2006 as
    deposits, as management believes no additional tax or interest
    liabilities have been incurred.


 


    Although the payment of the tax liability did not affect
    Southern Company’s results of operations under accounting
    standards in effect through December 31, 2006, it did
    impact cash flow. For tax years 2000 through 2006, Southern
    Company has claimed $284 million in tax benefits related to
    these SILO transactions challenged by the IRS. Southern Company
    believes these transactions are valid leases for U.S. tax
    purposes and thus the related deductions are allowable. Southern
    Company will continue to defend this position through
    administrative appeals or litigation. The ultimate outcome of
    these matters cannot now be determined.


 


    In July 2006, the FASB released new interpretations for the
    accounting for both leveraged leases and uncertain tax positions
    that were adopted January 1, 2007. For the LILO transaction
    settled with the IRS in February 2005, the leveraged leases
    accounting interpretation requires that Southern Company
    recognize a cumulative effect reduction to beginning 2007
    retained earnings of approximately $17 million at adoption
    and change the timing of income recognized under the lease.


 


    For the SILO transactions which are the subject of pending
    litigation, Southern Company is continuing to evaluate the
    impact of the new interpretations but estimates that the
    reduction to retained earnings in 2007 could be approximately
    $115 million to $135 million. The impact on Southern
    Company’s net income of these accounting interpretations
    would also be dependent on the outcome of the pending litigation
    or changes in assumptions related to uncertain tax positions but
    could be significant and potentially material.


 



    Risks
    Related to Market and Economic Volatility


 


    The business of Southern Company, the traditional operating
    companies and Southern Power is dependent on their ability to
    successfully access capital markets. The inability of Southern
    Company, any traditional operating company or Southern Power to
    access capital may limit its ability to execute its business
    plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions that Southern
    Company, the traditional operating companies or Southern Power
    may otherwise rely on for future growth.


 


    Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and
    Southern Power rely on access to both short-term money markets
    and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of
    liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by the cash
    flow from their respective operations. If Southern Company, any
    traditional operating company or Southern Power is not able to
    access capital at competitive rates, its ability to implement
    its business plan or pursue improvements and make acquisitions
    that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies or
    Southern Power may otherwise rely on for future growth will be
    limited. Each of Southern Company, the traditional operating
    companies and Southern Power believes that it will maintain
    sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current
    credit ratings. However, certain market disruptions or a
    downgrade of the credit rating of Southern Company, any
    traditional operating company or Southern Power may increase its
    cost of borrowing or adversely affect its ability to raise
    capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing
    arrangements. Such disruptions could include:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    an economic downturn;






     
        •  

    
    the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company;






     
        •  

    
    capital market conditions generally;






     
        •  

    
    market prices for electricity and gas;






     
        •  

    
    terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on Southern
    Company’s facilities or unrelated energy companies;






     
        •  

    
    war or threat of war; or






     
        •  

    
    the overall health of the utility industry.





 


    Southern Company, the traditional operating companies and
    Southern Power are subject to risks associated with a changing
    economic environment, including their ability to obtain
    insurance, the financial stability of their respective customers
    and their ability to raise capital.


 


    The threat of terrorism and the related military action by the
    United States continue to affect the nation’s economy and
    financial markets. The insurance industry has also been
    disrupted by these events as well as recent hurricane activity
    on the Gulf Coast. The availability of insurance covering risks
    Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, Southern
    Power and their respective competitors typically insure against
    may decrease, and the insurance that Southern Company, the
    traditional operating companies and Southern Power are able to
    obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more
    restrictive policy terms. Any economic downturn or disruption of
    financial markets could constrain the capital available to
    Southern Company’s, the traditional operating
    companies’ and Southern Power’s industry and could
    reduce access to funding for the respective operations of
    Southern



    
    I-20



Table of Contents




    Company, the traditional operating companies and Southern Power,
    as well as the financial stability of their respective customers
    and counterparties. These factors could adversely affect
    Southern Company’s subsidiaries’ ability to achieve
    energy sales growth, thereby decreasing Southern Company’s
    level of future net income.


 


    Certain of the traditional operating companies have
    substantial investments in the Gulf Coast region which can be
    subject to major storm activity. The ability of the traditional
    operating companies to recover costs and replenish reserves in
    the event of a major storm, other natural disaster, terrorist
    attack or other catastrophic event generally will require
    regulatory action. Additionally, storm damage may affect the
    availability and cost of insurance to these traditional
    operating companies.


 


    Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for
    property damage to cover the cost of damages from major storms
    to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of
    uninsured damages to its generating facilities and other
    property. In September 2004, Hurricane Ivan hit the Gulf coast
    of Florida and Alabama, causing significant damage to the
    service areas of Alabama Power and Gulf Power. In July and
    August 2005, Hurricanes Dennis and Katrina, respectively, hit
    the Gulf coast of the United States and caused significant
    damage in the service areas of Gulf Power, Alabama Power and
    Mississippi Power. In each case, costs to the respective
    traditional operating companies exceeded their respective storm
    cost reserves and insurance coverage and were subsequently
    approved for recovery by their respective state PSCs. In the
    event a traditional operating company experiences a natural
    disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event, recovery
    of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage is subject
    to the approval of its state PSC. While the traditional
    operating companies generally are entitled to recover prudently
    incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any
    denial by the applicable state PSC or delay in recovery of any
    portion of such costs could have a material negative impact on a
    traditional operating company’s results of operations
    and/or cash
    flows.


 



    Item 1B