Item 1A. Risk Factors.        

            The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements
made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. These factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition, operating results and cash flows, and you should carefully consider them. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. You should not consider this list to be a
complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. Past performance should not be considered an indication of future performance.

Risks Relating to Debt and the Financial Markets  



 We have a substantial debt burden that could affect our future operations.  



            As of December 31, 2005, our consolidated mortgages and other indebtedness, net of the related premium and discount, totaled $14.0 billion, of which
approximately $1.4 billion matures during 2006, including recurring principal amortization. We are subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash
flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service. Our debt service costs generally will not be reduced when developments, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of
major tenants, could cause a reduction in income from a Property. Should such events occur, our operations may be adversely affected. If a Property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and
income from the Property is insufficient to pay that indebtedness, the Property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value. 



 We depend on external financings for our growth and ongoing debt service requirements.  



            We depend, primarily, on external financings, principally debt financings, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet ongoing maturities of
our outstanding debt. Our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of banks to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets in general. We cannot assure you that we will
be able to obtain the financing we need for future growth or to meet our debt service as obligations mature, or that the financing available to us will be on acceptable terms. 



 Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms.  



            Our outstanding senior unsecured notes and preferred stock are periodically rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The credit ratings are based on
our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and the economic outlook in
general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. Since we depend primarily on debt financing to fund our growth, adverse
changes in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our future growth. 



 Rising interest rates could adversely affect our debt service costs.  



            As of December 31, 2005, approximately $2.2 billion of our total consolidated debt, adjusted to reflect outstanding derivative instruments, was
subject to floating interest rates. In a rising interest rate environment, these debt service costs will increase. Increased debt service costs would adversely affect our cash flow. The impact of
changes in market rates of interest on the fair value of our debt and, in turn, our future earnings and cash flows appears elsewhere in this report. 

10




 


 Our hedging interest rate protection arrangements may not effectively limit our interest rate risk.  



            We manage our exposure to interest rate risk by a combination of interest rate protection agreements to effectively fix or cap a portion of our variable rate
debt, or in the case of a fair value hedge, effectively convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. In addition, we refinance fixed rate debt at times when we believe rates and terms are
appropriate. Our efforts to manage these exposures may not be successful. 

            Our
use of interest rate hedging arrangements to manage risk associated with interest rate volatility may expose us to additional risks, including a risk that a counterparty to a
hedging arrangement may fail to honor its obligations. Developing an effective interest rate risk strategy is complex and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with interest
rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations or financial condition. Our termination of these hedging
agreements typically involve costs, such as transaction fees or breakage costs. 



 Rising interest rates could also make our equity securities less attractive.  



            One of the factors that may influence the price of our equity securities in public markets is the annual distribution rate we pay as compared with the yields on
alternative investments. Any significant increase in interest rates could lead holders of our equity securities to seek higher yields through other investments, which could adversely affect the market
price of our equity securities. 

Factors Affecting Real Estate Investments and Operations  



 We face risks associated with the acquisition, development and expansion of properties.  



            We regularly acquire and develop new properties and expand and redevelop existing Properties, and these activities are subject to various risks. We may not be
successful in pursuing acquisition, development or redevelopment/expansion opportunities, and newly acquired, developed or redeveloped/expanded properties may not perform as well as expected. We are
subject to other risks in connection with any acquisition, development and redevelopment/expansion activities, including the following: 



•construction
costs of a project may be higher than projected, potentially making the project unfeasible or unprofitable; •we
may not be able to obtain financing or to refinance construction loans on favorable terms, if at all; •we
may be unable to obtain zoning, occupancy or other governmental approvals; •occupancy
rates and rents may not meet our projections and the project may not be profitable; and •we
may need the consent of third parties such as anchor tenants, mortgage lenders and joint venture partners, and those consents may be withheld. 


            If
a development or redevelopment/expansion project is unsuccessful, either because it is not meeting our expectations when operational or was not completed according to the project
planning, we could lose our investment in the project. Further, if we guarantee the property's financing, our loss could exceed our investment in the project. 



 We are subject to risks related to owning retail real estate.  



            We are subject to risks incidental to the ownership and operation of retail real estate. These risks include, among others: 



•the
risks normally associated with changes in the general economic climate; •trends
in the retail industry; •creditworthiness
of tenants; •competition
for tenants and customers; •consumer
confidence; •impact
of terrorist activities; •changes
in tax laws; •interest
and foreign currency exchange rates; •the
availability of financing; and •potential
liability under environmental and other laws. 

11




 






 Real estate investments are relatively illiquid.  



            Our Properties represent a substantial portion of our total consolidated assets. These investments are relatively illiquid. As a result, our ability to sell one
or more of our Properties or investments in real estate in response to any changes in economic or other conditions is limited. If we want to sell a Property, we cannot assure you that we will be able
to dispose of it in the desired time period or that the sales price of a Property will exceed the cost of our investment. 

Environmental Risks  



 As owners of real estate, we can face liabilities for environmental contamination.  



            Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require us, as a current or previous owner or operator of real
property, to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at a Property or at impacted neighboring properties. These laws often impose liability regardless of
whether the property owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. These laws and regulations may require the abatement or removal of asbestos
containing materials in the event of damage, demolition or renovation, reconstruction or expansion of a Property and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Those laws and
regulations also govern the installation, maintenance and removal of underground storage tanks used to store waste oils or other petroleum products. Many of our Properties contain, or at one time
contained, asbestos containing materials or underground storage tanks (primarily related to auto service center establishments or emergency electrical generation equipment). The costs of
investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial and could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition but is not estimable. The presence
of contamination, or the failure to remediate contamination, may also adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or redevelop a Property or to borrow using a Property as collateral. 



 Our efforts to identify environmental liabilities may not be successful.  



            Although we believe that the Portfolio is in substantial compliance with Federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations regarding
hazardous or toxic substances, this belief is based on limited testing. Nearly all of the Properties have been subjected to Phase I or similar environmental audits. These environmental audits have not
revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, we cannot assure you that: 



•existing
environmental studies with respect to the Portfolio reveal all potential environmental liabilities; •any
previous owner, occupant or tenant of a Property did not create any material environmental condition not known to us; •the
current environmental condition of the Portfolio will not be affected by tenants and occupants, by the condition of nearby properties, or by other unrelated third
parties; or •future
uses or conditions (including, without limitation, changes in applicable environmental laws and regulations or the interpretation thereof) will not result in
environmental liabilities. 



Retail Operations Risks  



 We are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment.  



            Our concentration in the real estate market means that we are subject to the risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the levels of consumer
spending, seasonality, the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, tenant bankruptcies, changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence and terrorist activities. Any one
or more of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. 



 We may not be able to lease newly developed Properties and renew leases and relet space at existing Properties.  



            We may not be able to lease new Properties to an appropriate mix of tenants or for rents that are consistent with our projections. Also, when leases for our
existing Properties expire, the premises may not be relet or the terms of reletting, including the cost of allowances and concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than the current lease terms. To
the extent that our leasing plans are not achieved, our cash generated before debt repayments and capital expenditures could be adversely affected. 

12




 


 Certain Properties depend on anchor tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of a key anchor tenant.  



            Regional malls are typically anchored by department stores and other large tenants. The value of certain of our Properties could be adversely affected if
department stores or other large tenants fail to comply with their contractual obligations, seek concessions in order to continue operations, or cease their operations. Department store and larger
store, or "big box", consolidations typically result in the closure of existing stores or duplicate store locations. We do not control the disposition of those department stores or larger stores that
we do not own. We also may not control the vacant space that is not re-leased in those stores we do own. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the
event of such closures. The modification could be unfavorable to us as the lessor and decrease rents or expense recovery charges. Additionally, major tenant
closures may result in decreased customer traffic which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. If the sales of stores operating in our Properties were to decline significantly due to closing
of anchors, economic conditions, or other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of default by a tenant or anchor store, we may experience
delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties. 



 We face potential adverse effects from tenants' bankruptcies.  



            Bankruptcy filings by retailers occur frequently in the course of our operations. We are continually re-leasing vacant spaces resulting from tenant
terminations. The bankruptcy of a tenant, particularly an anchor tenant, may make it more difficult to lease the remainder of the affected Properties. Future tenant bankruptcies could adversely affect
our Properties or impact our ability to successfully execute our re-leasing strategy. 


Risks Relating to Joint Venture Properties  



 We have limited control with respect to certain Properties partially owned or managed by third parties, which may adversely affect our ability to sell or refinance the Properties at the most
advantageous time for us.  



            As of December 31, 2005, we owned interests in 146 income-producing properties with other parties. Of those, 20 Properties are included in our consolidated
financial statements. We account for the other 126 properties under the equity method of accounting (joint venture properties). We serve as general partner or property manager for 59 of these 146
properties; however, certain major decisions, such as selling or refinancing these properties, require the consent of the other owners. The other owners also have other participating rights that we
consider substantive for purposes of determining control over the properties' assets. The remaining joint venture properties are managed by third parties. These limitations may adversely affect our
ability to sell, refinance, or otherwise operate these properties. 



 We guarantee debt or otherwise provide support for a number of joint venture Properties.  



            Joint venture debt is the liability of the joint venture and is typically secured by a mortgage on the joint venture Property. As of December 31, 2005, we
have guaranteed or have provided letters of credit to support $41.6 million
of our total $3.2 billion share of joint venture mortgage and other indebtedness. A default by a joint venture under its debt obligations may expose us to liability under a guaranty or letter
of credit. 

Other Factors Affecting Our Business  



 Our Common Area Maintenance (CAM) contributions may not allow us to recover the majority of our operating expenses from tenants.  



            CAM costs typically include allocable energy costs, repairs, maintenance and capital improvements to common areas, janitorial services, administrative, property
and liability insurance costs, and security costs. We historically have used leases with variable CAM provisions that adjust to reflect inflationary increases. However, we are making a concerted
effort to shift from variable to fixed CAM contributions for our cost recoveries which will fix our tenants' CAM contributions to us. As a result, our CAM contributions may not allow us to recover all
operating costs and, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in our efforts to recover a substantial portion of these costs in the future. 

13




 


 We face a wide range of competition that could affect our ability to operate profitably.  



            Our Properties compete with other retail properties for tenants on the basis of the rent charged and location. The principal competition may come from existing or
future developments in the same market areas and from discount shopping centers, outlet malls, catalogues, discount shopping clubs and electronic commerce. The presence of competitive properties also
affects our ability to lease space and the level of rents we can obtain. Renovations and expansions at competing malls could also negatively affect our Properties. 

            We
also compete with other retail property developers to acquire prime development sites. In addition, we compete with other retail property companies for attractive tenants and
qualified management. 



 We expect to continue to pursue international expansion opportunities that may subject us to different or greater risk from those associated with our domestic operations.  



            We hold interests in joint venture properties in Europe, Japan and Mexico. We have also established arrangements to develop joint venture properties in China and
Korea, and expect to pursue additional expansion opportunities outside the United States. International development and ownership activities carry risks that are different from those we face with our
domestic Properties and operations. These risks include: 



•adverse
effects of changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies; •changes
in foreign political environments, regionally, nationally, and locally; •challenges
of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws including corporate governance, operations, taxes, and litigation; •differing
lending practices; •differences
in cultures; •changes
in applicable laws and regulations in the United States that affect foreign operations; •difficulties
in managing international operations; and •obstacles
to the repatriation of earnings and cash. 


            Although
our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented less than 6% of the GLA of all of our properties at
December 31, 2005), to the extent that we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 



 Some of our potential losses may not be covered by insurance.  



            We maintain commercial general liability "all risk" property coverage including fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance on our Properties. One of
our subsidiaries indemnifies our general liability carrier for a specific layer of losses. A similar policy written through our subsidiary also provides a portion of our initial coverage for property
insurance and certain windstorm risks at the Properties located in Florida. Even insured losses could result in a serious disruption to our business and delay our receipt of revenue. 

            There
are some types of losses, including lease and other contract claims that generally are not insured. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we could
lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a Property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the Property. If this happens, we may still remain obligated for any mortgage debt
or other financial obligations related to the Property. 

            The
events of September 11, 2001 significantly affected our insurance programs. Although insurance rates remain high, since the President signed into law the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act (TRIA) in November of 2002, the price of terrorism insurance has steadily decreased, while the available capacity has been substantially increased. We have purchased terrorism insurance
covering all Properties. The program provides limits up to $1 billion per occurrence for Certified (Foreign) acts of terrorism and $500 million per occurrence for
Non-Certified (Domestic) acts of terrorism. The coverage is written on an "all risk" policy form. In December of 2005, the President signed into law the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension
Act (TRIEA) of 2005, thereby extending the federal terrorism insurance backstop through 2007. TRIEA narrows terms and conditions afforded by TRIA for 2006 and 2007 by: 1) excluding lines of
coverage for commercial automobile, surety, burglary and theft, farm owners' multi-peril and professional liability; 2) raising the certifiable event trigger mechanism from $5 million to
$50 million during 2006 and to $100 million during 2007; and 3) increasing the deductibles and co-pays assigned to insurance companies. Upon the 

14




 


expiration
of TRIEA in 2007, we could pay higher premiums for comparable terrorism coverage and/or obtain or be otherwise able to secure less coverage than we have currently. 



 Terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties.  



            Our higher profile Properties or markets they operate in could be potential targets for terrorism attacks, due to the large quantities of people at the Property
or in the surrounding areas. Threatened or actual terrorist attacks in these high profile markets could directly or indirectly impact our Properties by resulting in lower property values, a decline in
revenue, or a decline in customer traffic and, in turn, a decline in our tenants' sales. 



 Inflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.  



            Although inflation has not materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a more pronounced negative impact on our mortgage
and debt interest and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents. Also, inflation may adversely affect tenant leases with stated rent increases,
which could be lower than the increase in inflation at any given time. Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants' sales and, in turn, our overage
rents, where applicable. 

Risks Relating to Federal Income Taxes  



 Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have adverse tax consequences to us and our stockholders.  



            We cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex
Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. If we fail to qualify as a REIT and any available relief provisions do not apply: 



•we
will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; •we
will be subject to corporate level income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; and •unless
entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during
which qualification was lost. 


            As
a result, net income and funds available for distribution to our stockholders will be reduced for those years in which we fail to qualify as a REIT. Also, we would no longer be
required to distribute money to our stockholders. Although we currently intend to operate so as to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations might cause us to
revoke our REIT election. 

            On
October 22, 2004 President Bush signed the American Jobs Creation Act which included several provisions of the REIT Improvement Act, which builds in some flexibility to the
REIT rules. This Act provides for monetary penalties in lieu of REIT disqualification. This better matches the severity of the penalty to the REIT's error and therefore reduces the possibility of
disqualification. 

Item 1B