Item 1a, Risk Factors, in this Form 10-K for updates to certain risk factors related to the sale.We plan to use the proceeds of the sale to pay off any short-term borrowing obligations, to make selective acquisitions that enhance our portfolio of brands and to sustain our share repurchase program.  Cost ReductionsFrom the announcement of our Growth and Value Plan we have been committed to on-going cost savings by year-end of greater than $100 million. We have surpassed that goal by approaching $175 million in savings by the end of 2012 through a focused effort on our cost structure, including:•select headcount reductions of approximately 670 employees within MHF and 530 employees within MHE,•the migration of numerous accounting work-streams, human resource processes and selected information-technology support services to world-class partners that specialize in these operations, and•redesigning the employee benefit plans including a freeze of our U.S. employee retirement plan.These cost goals were focused across the entire Company, including MHE. Approximately two-thirds of these cost reductions benefited MHE. Cost savings at MHF were partially offset by costs that were previously allocated to MHE, such as costs for centralized departments, that could not be classified as discontinued operations due to the nature of the expense. We will continue to look to extend outsourcing efforts to enhance cost synergies and realign administrative support for a leaner overall cost structure.Increased Shareholder ReturnDuring the two years ended December 31, 2012, we have returned $3.1 billion to our shareholders through a combination of share repurchases, our quarterly dividend and a special dividend.We completed share repurchases of $1.8 billion and distributed regularly quarterly dividends totaling approximately $600 million during the two years ended December 31, 2012. On December 6, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a special dividend in the amount of $2.50 per share on our common stock, payable on December 27, 2012 to shareholders on record on December 18, 2012. This returned an additional approximately $700 million to our shareholders. Also, on January 30, 2013, the Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly common stock dividend from $0.255 per share to $0.28 per share.Investing / Divesting Targeted AssetsDuring 2012, we completed several acquisitions that we believe will position us for long-term growth across all our segments.  •S&P Dow Jones Indices - our transaction with CME Group, Inc. and CME Group Index Services LLC to form a new company, S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC; •S&P Capital IQ - Credit Market Analysis Limited, a provider of independent data concerning the over-the-counter markets; QuantHouse, an independent global provider of end-to-end systematic low-latency market data solutions; and R² Technologies, a provider of advanced risk and scenario-based analytics;•Commodities & Commercial - Kingsman SA, a privately-held, Switzerland-based provider of price information and analytics for the global sugar and biofuels markets; •Standard & Poor's Ratings - Coalition Development Ltd., a privately-held U.K. analytics company. Refer to "Acquisitions and Partnerships" below for further discussion.We completed the sale of our Broadcasting Group, previously included in our Commodities & Commercial segment, on December 30, 2011 and, accordingly, for the year ended December 31, 2011 and prior periods, the results of operations of the Broadcasting Group have been reclassified to reflect the business as a discontinued operation and assets and liabilities of the business have been removed from our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011.6Table of ContentsThe Growth and Value Plan has required us to incur non-recurring costs necessary to enable separation, reduce our cost structure, accelerate growth and increase shareholder value. The table below summarizes these costs including restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2012:(in millions)    Continuing DiscontinuedProfessional fees$117 $17Restructuring charges68 39Transaction costs for our S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC joint venture15 —Charges related to our lease commitments8 3Miscellaneous charges18 2 $226 $61Total costs incurred since the Growth and Value Plan was announced in September of 2011 have been $297 million. These one-time expenses are largely professional fees, as we need the support of various consultants, business process and information technology firms, and financial advisors. Our BusinessesAs a result of our transaction with CME Group, Inc. and CME Group Index Services LLC to form a new company, S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and how we are managing this company, combined with the formation of MHF, we have separated our previously reported S&P Capital IQ / S&P Indices segment into two separate reportable segments. Our operations now consist of four reportable segments: Standard & Poor’s Ratings (“S&P Ratings”), S&P Capital IQ, S&P Dow Jones Indices ("S&P DJ Indices") and Commodities & Commercial (“C&C”). Our previously reported MHE segment is reported as a discontinued operation as discussed previously under the heading, "Separation of MHE".S&P RatingsS&P Ratings is a provider of credit ratings, offering investors and market participants information and independent ratings benchmarks. Credit ratings are one of several tools that investors can use when making decisions about purchasing bonds and other fixed income investments. They are opinions about credit risk and our ratings express our opinion about the ability and willingness of an issuer, such as a corporation or state or city government, to meet its financial obligations in full and on time. Our credit ratings can also speak to the credit quality of an individual debt issue, such as a corporate or municipal bond, and the relative likelihood that the issue may default.As the capital markets continue to evolve, S&P Ratings is well-positioned to capitalize on opportunities driven by continuing regulatory changes through its global network, well-established position in corporate markets and strong investor reputation.With offices in over 23 countries around the world, S&P Ratings is an important part of the world's financial infrastructure and has played a leading role for over 150 years in providing investors with information and independent benchmarks for their investment and financial decisions as well as access to the capital markets. The key constituents S&P Ratings serves are investors; corporations; governments; municipalities; commercial and investment banks; insurance companies; asset managers; and other debt issuers.S&P Ratings differentiates its revenue between transaction and non-transaction. Transaction revenue primarily includes fees associated with:•ratings related to new issuance of corporate and government debt instruments, and structured finance debt instruments;•bank loan ratings; and•corporate credit estimates, which are intended, based on an abbreviated analysis, to provide an indication of our opinion regarding creditworthiness of a company which does not currently have an S&P Ratings credit rating.Non-transaction revenue primarily includes fees for surveillance of a credit rating, annual fees for customer relationship-based pricing programs and fees for entity credit ratings.S&P Capital IQS&P Capital IQ is a global provider of digital and traditional financial research and analytical tools for capital market participants. It deploys the latest technology-driven strategies to deliver to customers an integrated portfolio of cross-asset analytics, desktop services, and investment recommendations in the rapidly growing financial information, data and analytics market. The key 7Table of Contentsconstituents S&P Capital IQ serves are asset managers; investment banks; investors; brokers; financial advisors; investment sponsors; and companies’ back-office functions, including compliance, operations, risk, clearance, and settlement.S&P Capital IQ's portfolio of products brings together integrated data sets, indices, research, and analytic insights in an integrated desktop solution to serve multiple investor segments across the financial community. In addition, the segment has products that integrate its content for delivery to the financial market via feeds, as well as through on-demand and customizable delivery tools. Specific products include:•Capital IQ - a product suite that provides data, analytics and third-party research for global financial professionals;•Global Credit Portal - a web-based solution that provides real-time credit research, market information and risk analytics, which includes RatingsDirect®;•Global Data Solutions - combines high-quality, multi-asset class and market data to help professional investors, traders, and analysts meet the new analytical, risk management, regulatory and front-to-back office operation requirements, which includes RatingsXpress®; and•investment research products.S&P DJ IndicesS&P DJ Indices is a global index provider that maintains a wide variety of investable and benchmark indices to meet an array of investor needs. S&P DJ Indices generates subscription revenue but primarily derives revenue from non-subscription products based on the S&P and Dow Jones Indices, specifically through fees on exchange traded funds, mutual funds and insurance assets. Additionally, fees are generated through both over-the-counter derivative issuances as well as exchange traded derivatives.S&P DJ Indices includes our transaction with CME Group, Inc. and CME Group Index Services LLC to form a new company, S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC. The combination of these businesses created the world's largest provider of market indices.S&P DJ Indices generate revenue through investment vehicles such as:•exchange traded funds, which are based on the S&P and Dow Jones Indices and generate revenue through fees based on assets and underlying funds;•index-related licensing fees, which are generally either annual fees based on assets under management or flat fees for over-the-counter derivatives and retail-structured products;•data subscriptions, which support index fund management, portfolio analytics and research; and•listed derivatives, which generate royalties based on trading volumes of derivatives contracts. Commodities & CommercialC&C consists of business-to-business companies specializing in the commodities and commercial markets that deliver their customers access to high-value information, data, analytic services and pricing benchmarks. C&C includes such brands as Platts, J.D. Power and Associates, McGraw-Hill Construction and Aviation Week. The C&C business is driven by the need for high-value information and transparency in a variety of industries. Our commodities business serves producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals and agriculture markets. Our commercial business serves professionals and executives within automotive, construction, aerospace and defense and marketing / research services markets. C&C delivers premier content that is deeply embedded in customer workflows and decision making processes.Commodities revenue is generated primarily through the following sources:•subscriptions to its real-time news and price information; end-of-day market data; newsletters and reports; and geospatial data and maps;•and trading services related products. Commercial revenue is generated primarily from digital and print subscriptions for a variety of products, proprietary research and consulting, ad claims and industry conferences.8Table of ContentsOur StrategyWe strive to be the foremost provider of essential information such as benchmarks, intelligence and analytics in the global capital, commodities and commercial markets. We seek to leverage the strength of our globally recognized brands to promote sustainable growth by bringing transparency and independent insights to those markets. Our strategy seeks to understand the key trends affecting our businesses and address them through the achievement of our enterprise objectives.Four key trends are increasing the need for content and analytics in the markets we serve:•The globalization of the capital markets: the global demand for capital and commodities markets trading and liquidity is expanding rapidly in both developed and growth markets;•The need for data-driven decision making tools: developments in technology, communications and data processing have increased the demand for time-critical, multi-asset class data and solutions;•Systemic regulatory change: new global legislation (e.g. Dodd-Frank, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Basel III) is creating new and complex operating and capital models for banks and market participants; and•Increased volatility and risk: amplified uncertainty and market volatility around short-term events are driving the need for new methodologies to measure risk, return and profitability.We are focused on delivering against these enterprise objectives:•Extend Market Leadership: extend our position as a global leader in our market segments•Build Scalable Capabilities: further institutionalize key capabilities such as technology and risk management•Foster Talent: attract and retain top talent•Create Shareholder Value: deliver high top-line and bottom-line growth and positive returns to shareholdersOur enterprise strategy, which will support the achievement of these core objectives, includes the following components:•Organic Growth: support a portfolio of leading market brands that delivers high top-line and bottom-line growth•Global Expansion: expand our global footprint to capture opportunities in both mature and growth markets•Acquisitions and Partnerships: supplement organic growth with acquisitions and partnerships•Scalable Capabilities: create and leverage efficiency and effectiveness through common platforms, processes and standards •Talent Retention and Acquisition: leverage our position as a market leader to become an employer of choice in our chosen markets and geographiesOrganic GrowthOur businesses share a set of competitive advantages, including leading global brands, scalable technology and multi-channel distribution capabilities. We will leverage these capabilities to extend and expand our product offerings across high-value segments of the information value chain, such as benchmarks, pricing and valuation, analytics and tools, research and desktop / enterprise solutions. Additionally, we will seek out cross-business growth initiatives and synergies, in areas such as adjacent asset classes and parts of the value-chain. This will result in the creation of innovative new solutions that help investors face the evolving challenges of today's volatile and changing market landscape.Global Expansion Global growth remains a high priority for our Company as we continue to expand our footprint to capture opportunities in mature and growth markets. Our scale and leadership position within our core markets will enable us to identify and capitalize on growth trends and further extend our position in fast-developing growth markets. We are committed to enhancing our local data capabilities in growth markets for both local and global distribution.Acquisitions and PartnershipsWe will continue to drive acquisitions and partnerships that supplement organic growth and strengthen our market position in our target asset classes, high-value segments of the information value chain, and high-priority geographic markets. Our acquisition and partnership activity in 2012 included the following transactions across all our segments:9Table of ContentsS&P DJ Indices•On June 29, 2012, we closed our transaction with CME Group, Inc. (“CME Group”) and CME Group Index Services LLC, a joint venture between CME Group and Dow Jones & Company, Inc., to form a new company, S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC. S&P Capital IQ•On June 29, 2012, we acquired Credit Market Analysis Limited (“CMA”) from the CME Group. CMA provides independent data concerning the over-the-counter markets. CMA's data and technology will enhance our capability to provide pricing and related over-the-counter information.   •On April 3, 2012, we completed the acquisition of QuantHouse, an independent global provider of end-to-end systematic low-latency market data solutions. The acquisition allows us to offer real-time monitors, derived data sets and analytics as well as the ability to package and resell this data as part of a core solution. •On February 8, 2012, we completed the acquisition of R² Technologies (“R²”). R² provides advanced risk and scenario-based analytics to traders, portfolio and risk managers for pricing, hedging and capital management across asset classes. C&C•On November 1, 2012, we completed the acquisition of Kingsman SA (“Kingsman”), a privately-held, Switzerland-based provider of price information and analytics for the global sugar and biofuels markets. The acquisition of Kingsman will expand our presence in sugar and biofuels information markets and has the potential to provide growth in the global agricultural information markets.  S&P Ratings•On July 4, 2012, CRISIL, our majority owned Indian credit rating agency, completed the acquisition of Coalition Development Ltd. (“Coalition”), a privately-held U.K. analytics company, and its subsidiaries. Coalition provides high-end analytics to leading global investment banks and other financial services firms. Coalition will be integrated into CRISIL's Global Research & Analytics business. Scalable CapabilitiesWe will maximize the capabilities of our entire portfolio of assets through an operating model that allows us to leverage infrastructure, and more quickly and effectively combine assets to create new solutions. We will further institutionalize enterprise-wide functions, including: technology and data operations; marketing, branding and communications; and risk management and compliance. This will allow us to create high-value, differentiated solutions and serve as a platform for growth.  Talent Retention and AcquisitionConsistent with our position as one of the leading content and analytics providers, we have a professional workforce of analysts, researchers and technologists, including the world's largest credit analytics teams, with over 1,400 analysts at S&P Ratings. We will promote a culture that is results-oriented and serves customers in a responsible and innovative way. We strive to recruit and retain the top talent required to deliver on our vision to be a leading provider of benchmarks, intelligence and analytics in the global capital, commodities and commercial markets.There can be no assurance that we will achieve success in implementing any one or more of these strategies as a variety of factors could unfavorably impact operating results, including prolonged difficulties in the global credit markets and a change in the regulatory environment affecting our businesses.Further projections and discussion on our outlook for our segments can be found within “Results of Operations”.Segment and Geographic DataThe relative contribution of our operating segments to operating revenue, operating profit, long-lived assets and geographic area for the three years ended December 31, 2012 is included in Note 12 – Segment and Geographic Information to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Form 10-K.Our PersonnelAs of December 31, 2012, we have 21,687 employees located worldwide, of which 9,942 were employed in the United States. Of these 21,687 employees, approximately 5,000 were MHE employees.10Table of ContentsAvailable InformationThe Company's investor kit includes the current Annual Report, Proxy Statement, Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K, and the current earnings release. For online access to the Digital Investor Kit, go to www.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relations. Requests for printed copies, free of charge, can be e-mailed to investor_relations@mcgraw-hill.com or mailed to Investor Relations, The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., 1221 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10020-1095. Interested parties can also call Investor Relations toll-free at 866-436-8502 (domestic callers) or 212-512-2192 (international callers).Access to more than 10 years of the Company's filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission is available through the Company's Investor Relations Web site. Go to www.mcgraw-hill.com/investor_relations and click on the SEC Filings link. In addition, these filings are available to the public on the Commission's Web site through their EDGAR filing system at www.sec.gov. Interested parties may also read and copy materials that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at the SEC's public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Room 1024, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference room. Item 1a. Risk FactorsWe are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results.We operate in the capital, commodities and commercial markets. The capital markets include asset managers, banks, exchanges, issuers and financial advisors; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, and agriculture; and the commercial markets include professionals and corporate executives within automotive, construction, aerospace and defense, and marketing / research information services. Certain risk factors are applicable to individual markets while other risk factors are applicable company-wide.Market RisksIntroduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability•We operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. In order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services.  ◦These investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. •We could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which we operate.  •We rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. We believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems.Exposure to litigation could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations•We are involved in legal actions and claims arising from our business practices, as discussed under Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Form 10-K and in Note 13 – Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, in this Form 10-K, and face the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any actions or claims that may be brought in the future, or the change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. Changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets could have a material impact on our results of operations•Unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which S&P Ratings provides credit ratings.11Table of Contents•Unfavorable financial or economic conditions could also adversely impacts S&P DJ Indices, which receives a portion of its revenue from fees based on derivatives trading volumes and index-based ETF assets under management.•Increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered.  •Any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products.Increased domestic and foreign regulation may adversely impact our businesses•Our results could be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation or regulatory scrutiny.•The financial services industry is subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the United States and abroad. The businesses conducted by S&P Ratings are in certain cases regulated under the U.S. Credit Rating Agency Reform Act of 2006, the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business.  ◦In the past several years, the U.S. Congress, the SEC and the European Commission, through regulators including the International Organization of Securities Commissions and the European Securities and Markets Authority, as well as regulators in other countries in which S&P Ratings operates have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. ▪We do not believe that the laws, regulations and rules that have been adopted as part of this process will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  ◦Other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, rotation of credit rating agencies and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. The impact on us of the adoption of any such laws, regulations or rules remains uncertain, but could increase the costs and legal risks relating to S&P Rating's rating activities.◦Additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in this Form 10-K.•Our commodities business is subject to the potential for increasing regulatory review in the United States and abroad. ◦In the fall of 2011, the G20 Cannes Final Summit Declaration called upon the International Organization of Securities Commissions ("IOSCO"), International Energy Forum, International Energy Agency and the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to prepare recommendations to improve the functioning and oversight of price reporting companies by mid-2012.◦In a meeting with representatives of IOSCO in January 2012, principals at IOSCO advised Platts management that among the recommendations the regulatory group is considering is establishment of formal oversight of price reporting organizations and their processes, or a self-regulatory oversight regime.  ◦In addition, new rules that are expected to be adopted by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission in 2013 affecting transactions in oil derivatives may hinder Platts in relation to its administration of the Platts electronic window (eWindow) as a means of determining price assessments in oil. Similar new rules and regulations in Europe are currently under consideration, albeit on a slower time frame.◦On October 5, 2012, IOSCO issued its final report to the G-20, including Principles for Oil Price Reporting Agencies, which sets out principles IOSCO states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by IOSCO members. On January 9, 2013, IOSCO held a meeting with the Price Reporting Organizations to discuss implementation of the Principles for Oil Price Reporting Agencies.  At the meeting, Platts was able to obtain clarification from IOSCO on its expectations for voluntary implementation of the Principles by Platts and the other PROs and, with that clarification, Platts believes that the Principles will not have a significant negative impact on its ongoing business operations.  ◦We do not believe that any new regulatory or self-regulatory oversight regime would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.12Table of ContentsOperating RisksA significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability•Our major expenses include employee compensation and capital investments.  ◦We offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. Compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require.  ◦We make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives. Although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments.Our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position•Our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print and digital. Our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. Our operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. Risk of doing business abroad•As we continue to expand our operations overseas, we face the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. Adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results.Increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue •The markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment and advisory services, and index-based products are competitive. S&P Ratings, S&P Capital IQ and S&P DJ Indices compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its ratings, research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation.  •While our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers, we also face competition from non-traditional providers such as exchanges, asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses.•In addition, in some of the countries in which S&P Ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers.  Consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth•Our businesses within S&P Capital IQ and S&P DJ Indices have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services industry. The current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base.Changes to our financial processing systems and the transition of certain of our support functions to selected outsource providers may adversely impact our business•We are in the process of changing certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide systems solution. There can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. The failure to implement these changes successfully may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and could lead to business disruption.•In addition, we have and plan to outsource certain support functions to third-party service providers to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers to which we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we 13Table of Contentsmay not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and, depending on the function involved, we may experience business disruption, processing inefficiencies, or harm employee morale.Risks associated with the sale of McGraw-Hill Education•The sale will result in two separate independent companies each of which is a smaller, less diversified company than we currently were with a narrower business focus than we previously had. In addition, diversification of revenues, costs, and cash flows may diminish. As such, it is possible that the results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements of the two separate businesses may be subject to increased volatility.  •Completion of the sale requires significant time, effort and expense. Any delays in the anticipated completion of the transaction may increase the expenses which we incur to complete the transaction.•This transaction requires us to retain and develop our senior management and a highly skilled workforce. Any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop current leadership positions or to retain a skilled workforce could affect our institutional knowledge base and our competitive advantage. In addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees and higher employee turnover.Item 1b