Item 1A.    Risk FactorsRisks Related to the Acquisition of Office DepotCompletion of the merger is subject to conditions and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the merger will not be completed.On February 4, 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Office Depot, a global supplier of office products, services and solutions for the workplace. On December 7, 2015, the Federal Trade Commission and Canadian Commissioner of Competition each filed lawsuits against us and Office Depot, seeking to block the proposed merger. On February 2, 2016, each company agreed to waive, until May 16, 2016, its respective rights to terminate the merger agreement due to a failure to complete the merger by February 4, 2016 or a legal restraint under antitrust laws. Our obligations to complete the merger are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including without limitation the expiration or earlier termination of any waiting period (and any extension thereof), and receipt of any approvals, consents or clearances under the HSR Act and other specified antitrust laws. The failure to satisfy all of the required conditions, including as a result of the antitrust lawsuits, could delay the completion of the merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring.  Any delay in completing the merger could cause us to not realize some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve if the merger is successfully completed within its expected timeframe.  If we are unable to complete the proposed acquisition, we will have incurred substantial expenses and diverted significant management time and resources from our ongoing business. In addition, we would be required to pay Office Depot a termination fee of $250 million under certain circumstances, including if the Merger Agreement is terminated as a result of the antitrust closing conditions (as set forth in the Merger Agreement) not being satisfied on or before May 16, 2016.  6  There can be no assurance that the conditions to the closing of the merger will be satisfied or waived or that the merger will be completed. Combining the two companies may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized.We are operating and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently of Office Depot. The success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses. It is possible that the pendency of the merger and/or the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, diversion of management attention, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger. We will incur transaction fees, including legal, regulatory and other costs associated with closing the transaction, as well as expenses related to formulating and implementing integration plans, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. We continue to assess the magnitude of these costs, and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the merger and the integration of the two companies’ businesses. Although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset integration-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. If we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. The actual cost savings of the merger could be less than anticipated.As part of the integration process we may also attempt to divest certain assets of the combined company, which may not be possible on favorable terms, or at all, or if successful, may change the profile of the combined company. The European Commission approved the merger on the condition that Staples divest Office Depot’s European contract business and all of Office Depot’s operations in Sweden. Staples and Office Depot have announced that they will also divest Office Depot’s retail, online and catalog operations in Europe in connection with closing the transaction.  In addition, Staples and Office Depot have announced an agreement to sell more than $550 million of office products revenue and related assets to Essendant in connection with closing the transaction.  We may be subject to additional remedies, such as restrictions on our operations and the divestiture of additional assets, in connection with seeking antitrust clearance for the merger.We will incur significant indebtedness in connection with the merger, which could reduce our flexibility to operate our business and increase our interest expense.In connection with the planned acquisition, we have obtained financing commitments from Bank of America, N.A. and Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated ("Bank of America Merrill Lynch") and Barclays Bank PLC ("Barclays") and other banks and investors for a 5-year $3 billion asset-based revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”) and for a 6-year $2.5 billion term loan (the “Term Loan”). In February 2016, we drew the proceeds of the Term Loan and placed them in escrow with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. The proceeds of the Term Loan will be released from escrow to the Company if certain conditions are satisfied, including consummation of the merger, or repaid to the lenders together with accrued interest and fees if the conditions are not met by September 10, 2016 (subject to extension to November 10, 2016 under certain antitrust-related circumstances). We also extended the commitment period for the ABL Facility. Pursuant to the amended and restated debt commitment letter, the extended commitments will expire on May 10, 2016 unless, prior to 5:00 p.m. on such date, the Federal Trade Commission agrees, or a court of competent jurisdiction determines, that the merger is permitted to proceed in accordance with the merger agreement, in which case the commitments will be extended to September 10, 2016.This indebtedness could have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, and increasing interest expense. We will also incur various costs and expenses associated with our indebtedness. The amount of cash required to pay interest on our increased indebtedness levels following completion of the merger, and thus the demands on our cash resources, will be greater than the amount of cash flows required to service our indebtedness prior to the transaction.  The increased levels of indebtedness following completion of the merger could also reduce funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and may create competitive disadvantages relative to other companies with lower debt levels. If we do not achieve the expected benefits and cost savings from the merger, or if the financial performance of the combined company does not meet current expectations, then our ability to service our indebtedness may be adversely impacted.In addition, our credit ratings affect the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. Our ratings reflect each rating organization’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations.  In connection with the debt financing, we have sought ratings of our indebtedness from certain nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. On April 6, 2015, Standard & Poor’s Rating Services announced that it had assigned Staples a BBB  7rating on the term facility with a recovery rating of 1, and that it expects to lower Staples’ corporate credit rating from BBB- to BB+ with a stable outlook upon closing of the merger. On April 14, 2015, Moody’s Investor Service announced that it had assigned a Baa2 rating to the term facility, and noted that all ratings of Staples remain on review for downgrade. There can be no assurance that we will receive or maintain a particular credit rating.Moreover, we may be required to raise substantial additional financing to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements. Our ability to arrange additional financing or refinancing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional financing or refinancing on terms acceptable to us or at all.The agreements that govern the indebtedness incurred in connection with the merger contain various covenants that impose restrictions that may affect our ability to operate our businesses.The agreements that govern the Term Loan, and that will govern the ABL Facility if we enter into it in connection with the merger, contain (or, in the case of the ABL Facility, are expected to contain) various affirmative and negative covenants that, subject to certain significant exceptions, restrict our ability to, among other things, incur indebtedness or guarantees; incur liens; make investments, loans and acquisitions; consolidate or merge; sell assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; pay dividends on capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire capital stock; change lines of business; amend, prepay, redeem or purchase certain debt; engage in transactions with affiliates; and enter into agreements containing negative pledge clauses or clauses that limit subsidiary dividends and distributions. In addition, these agreements contain (or are expected to contain, as applicable) financial covenants that will require us to maintain certain financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could accelerate our repayment obligations. In addition, the terms of the definitive agreements that govern the Term Loan, and that will govern the ABL Facility if we enter into it, restrict us from paying dividends in certain circumstances and otherwise in an amount in excess of $0.15 per share per quarter, subject to certain exceptions.Sales of shares of our common stock before and after the completion of the proposed Office Depot merger may cause the market price of our common stock to fall.As of February 21, 2015, we estimated that we would issue up to approximately 128 million shares of our common stock in connection with the proposed Office Depot merger, subject to adjustment based on the number of outstanding shares and equity awards of Office Depot at the time the merger is completed. The anticipated dilutive effect of the issuance of these new shares could negatively impact the market price for our common stock.   In addition, Office Depot stockholders may decide not to hold the shares of our common stock they receive in the proposed merger. Other Office Depot stockholders, such as funds with limitations on the amount of stock they are permitted to hold in individual issuers, may be required to sell the shares of our common stock that they receive in the proposed merger. Such sales of our common stock could result in higher than average trading volume following the closing of the transaction and may cause the market price for our common stock to decline.Risks Related to the Business    If we fail to meet the changing needs of our customers our business and financial performance could be adversely affected.We are currently engaged in a multi-year effort to evolve our business to meet the changing needs of our customers.  One of our top priorities is to significantly expand our product and service offerings beyond traditional core office supplies, a category that is declining. Over the past few years we have had success driving growth in adjacent product categories, such as facilities supplies and breakroom supplies and service offerings, such as our copy and print services.  We are also increasing coordination between our online business and our retail stores. Our success is dependent on providing our customers the selection of products, as well as services, at competitive prices that meet customers' changing needs and purchasing habits. If we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers' purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products or missed opportunities for products and services we do not offer. Failure to provide the products and services preferred by our customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, results of operations and ability to attract and retain customers. 8    We face uncertainties transforming our business, and our inability to successfully implement our strategies could adversely affect our business and financial performance.As part of our continuing efforts to transform our business, in 2014 we announced a plan to reduce costs by $500 million on an annualized basis by the end of 2015.  We also announced a plan to close at least 225 of our retail stores in North America by the end of 2015, under which we closed 242 stores through the end of 2015 and which we extended to encompass an additional 50 closures in 2016.  As a result of these initiatives, we recorded pre-tax charges of $245 million in fiscal 2014 and $170 million in fiscal 2015, and we expect to incur charges of approximately $40 million - $85 million in 2016 related to the additional store closures.  Additional charges may be required as a result of implementing our plans or if we adopt new strategies for the future. The success of our plans and strategies is subject to both the risks affecting our business generally and the inherent difficulty associated with implementing our new strategies, and is also dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our management and other associates and our success with third parties. To the extent we pursue acquisitions or other operational and strategic opportunities, our success will depend on selecting the appropriate targets or partners, completing integration efforts quickly and effectively and realizing any expected synergies and cost savings. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our strategic initiatives or that the implementation of changes will result in the benefits or costs savings at the levels that we anticipate or at all, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In the past we have recognized significant goodwill impairment charges and may be required to recognize additional goodwill impairment charges in the future.  As a result of challenging industry and operating pressures, we recorded significant goodwill impairment charges in fiscal 2014 related to our Australia and China reporting units.  At January 30, 2016, we had $2.7 billion of goodwill on our balance sheet.  Certain factors, including consumer and business spending levels, industry and macroeconomic conditions, the price of our stock and the future profitability of our businesses might have a negative impact on the carrying value of our goodwill. The process of testing goodwill for impairment involves numerous judgments, assumptions and estimates made by management which inherently reflect a high degree of uncertainty. If the business climate deteriorates, if our plans change or if we fail to manage our restructuring activities successfully, then actual results may not be consistent with these judgments, assumptions and estimates, and additional goodwill impairment charges may be required in future periods. This could have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive market and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully. We compete with a variety of online and traditional retailers, dealers and distributors. Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors could affect prices or demand for our products and services. If we are unable to appropriately respond to these competitive pressures, or offer the appropriate mix of products and services at competitive prices, our financial performance and market share could be adversely affected. As we rapidly expand our assortment of products and services, we compete directly with an increasing number of competitors including mass merchants such as Walmart, Target and Tesco, warehouse clubs such as Costco, computer and electronics retail stores such as Best Buy, specialty technology stores such as Apple, copy and print businesses such as FedEx Office, online retailers such as Amazon.com, and a wide range of other retailers, including grocery stores, drug stores and discount retailers. In addition, our retail stores continue to compete against traditional office supplies retail stores. Our commercial business competes against a growing and diverse set of competitors, including other office supplies distributors, wholesalers, networks of regional suppliers, managed print service companies, contract stationers, electronic commerce distributors, regional and local dealers, direct manufacturers of the products we distribute, and companies focused on adjacent categories such as maintenance, repair and operation providers. Many of our competitors have increased their presence in our historic core product areas in recent years, for example by expanding their assortment of office products and services, opening new stores near our existing stores, and offering direct delivery of office products, and we expect this trend to continue going forward. Some of our current and potential competitors are larger than we are, may have more experience in selling certain products or delivering services or may have substantially greater financial resources. Global economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 9As a world-class provider of products and services that serve the needs of business customers and consumers in 25 countries, our operating results and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on business and consumer spending. Increases in the levels of unemployment, particularly white collar unemployment, energy and commodity costs, health care costs, higher interest rates and taxes, tighter credit markets, reduced consumer credit availability, fluctuation in the financial markets, lower consumer confidence, lack of small business formation and other factors could result in a decline in business and consumer spending. Our business and financial performance may continue to be adversely affected, and our ability to generate cash flow may be negatively impacted, by current and future economic conditions if there is a renewed decline in business and consumer spending or if such spending remains stagnant.Our international operations expose us to risks inherent in foreign operations. We currently operate in 24 countries outside the United States. In certain international market segments, we may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. Cultural differences abroad and local practices of conducting business may conflict with our own business practices and ethics standards. Ensuring compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and our own policies may require that we implement new operational systems and financial controls, conduct audits or internal investigations, train our associates and third parties on our existing compliance methods, and take other actions, all of which may be expensive, divert management's time and impact our operations. There are also different employee/employer relationships and in some cases the existence of workers' councils that may delay or impact the implementation of some of these operational systems. In addition, differences in business practices in our international markets may cause customers to be less receptive to our business model than we expect. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Other factors that may also have an adverse impact on our international operations include limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds, foreign currency exchange restrictions, complex import and export schemes, increased local competition, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences, unfavorable foreign trade policies, unstable political or economic conditions, and geopolitical events, including war and terrorism.Compromises of our information systems or unauthorized access to confidential information or personal information may materially harm our business or damage our reputation.Through our sales and marketing activities and our business operations, we collect and store confidential information and certain personal information from our customers, end users of our services, vendors, business partners and associates. For example, we handle, collect and store personal information in connection with our customers purchasing products or services, enrolling in our promotional or rewards programs, registering on our web site or otherwise communicating or interacting with us. We also accept payments using a variety of methods, including debit and credit cards, gift cards, electronic transfer of funds, and others. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services or make certain payments on our behalf. In addition, in the normal course of business, we gather and retain personal information about our associates and generate and have access to confidential business information. We may share confidential and personal information with vendors or other third parties in connection with processing of transactions, operating certain aspects of our business or for marketing purposes. Although we have taken steps designed to safeguard such information, there can be no assurance that such information will be protected against loss or unauthorized access, acquisition, use or disclosure. For example, computer hackers may penetrate our or our vendors' network security and, if successful, misappropriate such information or interfere with our ability to access such information. A Staples associate, contractor or other third-party with whom we do business may misuse confidential or personal information to which they have access; attempt to circumvent our security measures; or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Additionally, methods to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information change frequently and may be difficult to detect, which can impact our ability to respond appropriately. We could be subject to liability for failure to comply with privacy and information security laws, for failing to protect personal information, for failing to respond appropriately, or for misusing personal information, such as use of such information for an unauthorized marketing purpose. Loss, interference with our ability to access, unauthorized access to, or misuse of confidential or personal information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We have investigated, with the assistance of outside experts, a data security incident involving unauthorized access into the computer systems of PNI Digital Media Ltd ("PNI"), a subsidiary we acquired in July 2014. PNI, which is based in Vancouver, British Columbia, provides a software platform that enables retailers to sell personalized products such as photo prints, photo books, calendars, business cards, stationery and other similar products. PNI’s customers include a number of major third party retailers, as well as our affiliates. The investigation determined that an unauthorized party entered PNI’s systems and was able to deploy on some of PNI’s servers supporting its customers, malware designed to capture data that end users input on the photosites.  10Some of PNI's affected customers have notified certain of their users of a potential compromise of the users' payment card information and/or other personal information. PNI took prompt steps to contain the incident, including disabling the retailer photosites, or online payment transactions, for a period while the incident was being investigated, and to further enhance the security of its retailer customers' data. To date the Company has incurred incremental expenses of $18 million related to the incident. Additional losses and expenses relating to the incident are probable; however, at this stage, we do not have sufficient information to reasonably estimate such losses and expenses. The types of losses and expenses that may result from the incident include, without limitation: claims by PNI’s retailer customers, including indemnification claims for losses and damages  incurred by them; claims by end-users of PNI’s services, including class action lawsuits that have been filed, and further class action lawsuits that may be filed, in Canada and the United States; investigations and claims by various regulatory authorities in Canada and the United States; the costs of completing our investigation of the incident; remediation costs; and legal fees. We will continue to evaluate information as it becomes known and will record an estimate for losses or expenses at the time or times when it is both probable that any loss has been incurred and the amount of such loss is reasonably estimable.  Such losses may be material to our results of operations and financial condition. We maintain network-security insurance coverage, which we expect would help mitigate the financial impact of the incident. The incident has resulted in a loss of business for PNI and may result in further reputational and other harm to us going forward. On December 19, 2014, we announced that the investigation into our previously announced data security incident had determined that malware deployed by criminals to some point of sale systems at 115 of our more than 1,400 U.S. retail stores may have allowed access to transaction data at those affected stores. As a result, cardholder names, payment card numbers, expiration dates, and card verification codes for approximately 1.16 million payment cards may have been affected. Upon detection, we immediately took action to eradicate the malware and commenced an investigation into the incident, working closely with payment card companies and law enforcement and with the assistance of outside data security experts. We also have taken steps to further enhance the security of our point of sale systems, including the use of new encryption tools. We continue to evaluate cybersecurity policies and practices to mitigate the risk of future incidents. Expenses incurred to date related to this incident have not been material.  It is reasonably possible that we may incur additional expenses or losses in connection with the incident; however, at this time we are unable to reasonably estimate any such additional expenses or losses. In addition, we maintain network-security insurance coverage, which we expect would help mitigate any material financial impact.Our effective tax rate may fluctuate. We are a multi-national, multi-channel provider of products and services. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than our tax rates have been in the past due to numerous factors, including the sources of our income, any agreements we may have with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, changes in the laws and the tax filing positions we take in various jurisdictions. In addition, our effective tax rate may fluctuate quarterly, and the resulting tax rate may be negative or unusually high as a result of significant charges in a quarter that are not tax deductible, such as goodwill and long-lived asset impairment. We base our estimate of our effective tax rate at any given point in time upon a calculated mix of the tax rates applicable to our company and to estimates of the amount of business likely to be done in any given jurisdiction. The loss of one or more agreements with taxing jurisdictions, a change in the mix of our business from year to year and from country to country, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, or changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could lead to lower earnings. Sales from our delivery operations and stores outside the U.S. are denominated in the currency of the country in which these operations or stores are located and changes in foreign exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Additionally, merchandising agreements may also be denominated in the currency of the country where the vendor resides. Although we attempt to mitigate such risks by sometimes entering into foreign exchange hedges or utilizing risk management strategies, such hedges and strategies themselves present some risk and thus may not be entirely successful in mitigating the risk.We may be unable to attract, train, engage and retain qualified associates. Our customers across all channels value courteous and knowledgeable associates. Accordingly, our performance depends on attracting, training, engaging and retaining a large number of qualified associates. We face intense competition for qualified associates, particularly in tight labor markets in emerging markets or in specialized areas of technical expertise. Many of our associates, particularly in retail stores, are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a  11sufficient number of qualified persons in the workforce, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and the cost of compliance with labor and wage laws and regulations. We have experienced reductions in force in connection with our restructuring activity, which may lead to lower associate morale, gaps in experience and knowledge, and a higher likelihood that remaining associates terminate their employment. If we are unable to attract, train, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified associates, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected.Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Historically, sales and profitability are generally stronger in the second half of our fiscal year than the first half of our fiscal year due in part to back-to-school, holiday and back-to-business seasons.  Factors that could also cause these quarterly fluctuations include: the mix of products sold; pricing actions of competitors; the level of advertising and promotional expenses; the expense and outcome of legal proceedings; severe weather; consumer confidence; and the other risk factors described in this section. Most of our operating expenses, such as occupancy costs and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall may have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. Our indebtedness could adversely affect us by reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. As of January 30, 2016, our consolidated outstanding debt was $1.0 billion and we also had $1.1 billion of additional borrowing capacity under our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and other lines of credit.  On February 2, 2016, in connection with our pending acquisition of Office Depot, we entered into a term loan agreement for $2.5 billion, the proceeds of which are currently held in escrow pending the closing of the acquisition, and an extension to a financing commitment for a $3 billion asset-based revolving credit facility. Our acquisition-related financing, or other substantial indebtedness we may incur in the future could reduce our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and economic pressures. Our level of indebtedness may also place us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors. If we default or breach our obligations, we could be required to pay a higher rate of interest or lenders could require us to accelerate our repayment obligations. If we were to experience a credit rating downgrade in future periods, we may incur higher interest costs on future financings and it may limit our ability to participate in the commercial paper market. Our expanded offering of proprietary branded products may not improve our financial performance and may expose us to intellectual property liability, product liability, import/export liability, government investigations and claims, and other risks associated with global sourcing. Our product offering includes Staples, Quill and other proprietary branded products and services, which represented approximately 28% of our sales in fiscal 2015 and which typically generate higher margins than national brand products and services. Our proprietary branded products compete with other manufacturers' branded items that we offer. An increase in our proprietary branded products and services also exposes us to added risks that could increase the cost of doing business, such as  third party intellectual property infringement, false advertising, and product liability claims against us with respect to such products and services; and import and export compliance issues. Furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to importing and exporting merchandise, there can be no assurance that contractors, agents, vendors, manufacturers or other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our operations or operating results. We also have greater exposure and responsibility to the consumer for replacements as a result of product defects. If any of our customers are harmed by our proprietary branded products or services, they may bring product liability and other claims against us or we may have to issue voluntary or mandatory recalls. The more proprietary branded products and services we offer, the more these risks increase. A loss of consumer acceptance of these products could also adversely affect our sales and gross margin rates. Any of these circumstances could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance.Problems in our information systems and technologies may disrupt our operations. We rely heavily on various information systems and technology to sell and deliver our products and services and operate our business, including systems to track inventory, to process and record transactions, to generate financial reports and to communicate with our associates, vendors and customers. As we continue to accelerate our growth online, our ability to attract  12and retain customers, compete and operate effectively is dependent on a consistent, secure and easy to use technology infrastructure with uninterrupted availability and reliable back-up systems. Any disruption to the internet or our technology infrastructure, including a disruption or incident affecting our web sites and information systems, including without limitation a denial of service attack, may cause a decline in our customer satisfaction, jeopardize accurate financial reporting, impact our sales volumes or result in increased costs. Hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly disrupt our operations or compromise our information security. Although we continue to invest in our technology, if we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively manage or upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and develop effective system availability, disaster recovery plans and protection solutions, our business could be disrupted thus subjecting us to liability and potentially harming our reputation.In addition, we periodically make modifications and upgrades to our information systems and technology. Some of our information systems are outsourced to third parties. Modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. Although we make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper internal control practices and procedures, we cannot assure that failures will not occur. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing our systems, including accurately capturing data, system disruptions and outsourcing to third parties. Information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations.     Our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with third-parties. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of third-party vendors and as we expand our assortment we rely on third parties to fulfill our customer orders and deliver products directly to our customers.  In general, we do not have long-term contracts with our vendors or third parties committing them to provide products to us on acceptable terms. For example, we derive benefits from vendor allowances and promotional incentives which may not be offered in the future. We also cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of many of the products that we offer for sale. Some of the products we offer are supplied to us on an exclusive basis and may be difficult to replace in a timely manner. Additionally, third parties may not live up to the delivery promises they have made to our customers. Disruptions in the availability of products or services purchased through third parties, or quality issues that cause us to initiate voluntary or mandatory recalls for products we sell on an exclusive basis, may result in customer dissatisfaction, damage our reputation and adversely affect our sales.Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. Our ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, trade restrictions, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, inflation and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. We also rely upon many independent service providers for services that are important to many aspects of our business. If our service providers fail or are unable to perform as expected and we are unable to replace them quickly, our business could be harmed at least temporarily until we are able to do so and potentially, in some cases, permanently. These and other issues could adversely affect our reputation, business and financial performance.Various legal proceedings may adversely affect our business and financial performance. We are involved in various private legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, intellectual property, commercial, tort and other litigation. We are subject to potentially increasing challenges by private litigants regarding compliance with local, state and national labor regulations, whether meritorious or not.  In addition, companies have increasingly been subject to employment related class action litigation, and we have experienced “wage and hour” class action lawsuits.  We expect that these trends will continue to affect us. We are also subject to claims that the technology we use or the products we sell infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether meritorious or not, involve significant managerial resources and can become costly. Generally, we have indemnification protections in our agreements which our vendors or licensors often have honored; however, there are no assurances that such vendors or licensors will continue to do so in the future. We estimate exposure and establish reserves for our estimated significant liabilities, however, litigation is inherently unpredictable and the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies could be unexpected. Some verdicts or decisions may not be reasonable or based on law or prior precedent, in which case we will vigorously contest and appeal such decisions. Other outcomes may require us to pay substantial amounts of money or take actions that adversely affect our operations. In addition, defending against these claims may involve significant time and expense. Given the large size of our operations and workforce, the visibility of our brand and our position as an industry leader, we may regularly be involved in legal proceedings that could adversely affect our business and financial performance.Failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance.  13Our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the False Claims Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”), securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations), privacy and information security regulations, unclaimed property laws, and many others. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to legal and regulatory requirements, increased enforcement and our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels. In addition, as a result of operating in multiple countries, we must comply with multiple foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country and may conflict with corresponding U.S. laws and regulations. We may also be subject to investigations or audits by governmental authorities and regulatory agencies, which can occur in the ordinary course of business or which can result from increased scrutiny from a particular agency towards an industry, country or practice. If we fail to comply with laws, rules and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, we may be subject to government enforcement action, class action litigation or other litigation, damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, and increased cost of regulatory compliance, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. Item 1B