Item 1A.                Risk
Factors

Our market is highly competitive and we may not
continue to compete successfully.

The office products market
is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of local, regional, national
and international retailers, dealers and distributors for customers, employees,
locations, products, services and other important aspects of our business. In
most of our geographic markets, we compete with other high-volume office supply
chains such as Office Depot and OfficeMax that are similar in concept to us in
terms of pricing strategy and product selection, as well as mass merchants such
as Wal-Mart, warehouse clubs such as Costco, computer and electronics
superstores such as Best Buy, copy and print businesses such as FedEx Kinko’s,
ink cartridge specialty stores, and other discount retailers. In addition, both
our retail stores and delivery operations compete with numerous mail order
firms, contract stationer businesses, electronic commerce distributors, local
dealers and direct manufacturers such as Dell. Many of our competitors have
increased their presence in our markets in recent years. Some of our current
and potential competitors are larger than we are and have substantially greater
financial resources that may be devoted to sourcing, promoting and selling
their products. Increased competition or improved performance by our
competitors could reduce our market share, profit margin and projected
operating results, and could adversely affect our business and financial
performance in other ways.


 10 






We may be unable to continue to open new stores and
enter new markets successfully.

An important part of our
business plan is to increase our number of stores and enter new geographic
markets. We currently plan to open at least 110 new stores in fiscal 2007. For
our growth strategy to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable
store sites, hire and train associates and adapt management and operational
systems to meet the needs of our expanded operations. These tasks may be
difficult to accomplish successfully. If we are unable to open new stores as
quickly as planned, our future sales and profits may be adversely affected. Even
if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same
sales or profit levels as our existing stores. Also, our expansion strategy
includes opening new stores in markets where we already have a presence so we
can take advantage of economies of scale in marketing, distribution and
supervision costs. However, these new stores may result in the loss of sales in
existing stores in nearby areas, which could adversely affect our business and
financial performance.

Our growth may continue to strain operations, which
could adversely affect our business and financial performance.

Our business has grown
dramatically over the past several years and continues to grow through organic
growth and strategic acquisitions. Accordingly, sales of our products and
services, the number of stores that we operate, the number of countries in
which we conduct business and the number of associates have grown and likely
will continue to grow. This growth places significant demands on management and
operational systems. If we are not successful in continuing to support our
operational and financial systems, expanding our management team and increasing
and effectively managing our associate base, this growth is likely to result in
operational inefficiencies and ineffective management of the business and
associates, which will in turn adversely affect our business and financial
performance. In addition, as we grow, our business is subject to a wider array
of complex state, federal and international regulations, and may be
increasingly the target of private actions alleging violations of such
regulations. This increases the cost of doing business and the risk that our
business practices could unknowingly result in liabilities that may adversely
affect our business and financial performance.

Our operating results may be impacted by changes in
the economy that impact business and consumer spending.

Our operating results are
directly impacted by the health of the North American, European, South American
and Asian economies. Our business and financial performance may be adversely
affected by current and future economic conditions, including unemployment
levels, energy costs, interest rates, recession, inflation, the impact of
natural disasters and terrorist activities, and other matters that influence
business and consumer spending.

Our business and financial performance is dependent upon
our ability to attract and retain qualified associates.

Our performance is
dependent on attracting and retaining a large and growing number of quality
associates. We face intense competition for qualified associates, and many of
our associates are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high
rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs generally while
controlling our labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including
the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force,
unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and
other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable
to attract and retain qualified associates or our labor costs increase
significantly, our business and financial performance may be adversely
affected.

Our stock price may fluctuate based on market
expectations.

The public trading of our
stock is based in large part on market expectations that our business will
continue to grow and that we will achieve certain levels of net income. If the
securities analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or lower
their projections for future growth and financial performance, the market price
of our stock is likely to drop significantly. In addition, if our quarterly
financial performance does not meet the expectations of securities analysts,
our stock price would likely decline. The decrease in the stock price may be
disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance.

Our quarterly operating results are subject to
significant fluctuation.

Our operating results have
fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will
continue to do so in the future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates
similar to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short of
either a prior fiscal period or investors’ expectations. Factors that could
cause these quarterly fluctuations include: the extent to which sales in new
stores result in the loss of sales in existing stores; the mix of 


 11 






products
sold; pricing actions of competitors; the level of advertising and promotional
expenses; extreme weather-related disruptions; and seasonality, primarily
because the sales and profitability of our stores are typically slightly lower
in the first and second quarter of the fiscal year than in other quarters. Most
of our operating expenses, such as rent expense, advertising expense and
employee salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are
difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular
quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately
reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales
shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the
quarter.

Our expanding international operations expose us to
the unique risks inherent in foreign operations.

As of February 3,
2007, we had operations in 19 countries in Europe, South America and Asia and a
significant presence in Canada. As evidenced by our recent entry into the South
American and Asian markets, we may also seek to expand further into other
international markets. Our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those
faced by our U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations,
such as local customs and regulatory constraints, foreign trade policies,
competitive conditions, foreign currency fluctuations and unstable political
and economic conditions. Further, our recent acquisitions in Europe and South
America and our investments in Asia have increased our exposure to these
foreign operating risks, which could have an adverse impact on our
international income and worldwide profitability.

Our business may be adversely affected by the actions
of and risks associated with our third party vendors.

The products we sell are
sourced from a wide variety of third party vendors. We cannot control the
supply, design, function or cost of many of the products that we offer for sale
and are dependent on the availability and pricing of key products, including,
without limitation, paper, ink, toner and technology products. Disruptions in
the availability of raw materials used in production of these products may
adversely affect our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction. In addition,
global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our
financial performance. Our ability to find qualified vendors and access
products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge,
especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Political
instability, the financial instability of suppliers, merchandise quality
issues, trade restrictions, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transport
capacity and costs, inflation and other factors relating to foreign trade are
beyond our control. These and other issues affecting our vendors could
adversely affect our business and financial performance.

Our expanded
offering of proprietary branded products may not improve our financial
performance and may expose us to product liability claims.

Our product offering
includes Staples, Quill and other proprietary branded products which
represented approximately 20% of our total sales in fiscal 2006. While we have
focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third
party manufacturers for these products. Such third party manufacturers may
prove to be unreliable, or the quality of our globally sourced products may not
meet our expectations. Furthermore, economic and political conditions in areas
of the world where we source such products may adversely affect the
availability and cost of such products. In addition, our proprietary branded
products compete with other manufacturers’ branded items that we offer. As we
continue to increase the number and types of proprietary branded products that
we sell, we may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors, who may
decide to reduce their product offerings through Staples and increase their
product offerings through our competitors. Finally, if any of our customers are
harmed by our proprietary branded products, they may bring product liability
and other claims against us.  Any of
these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and financial
performance.

Our debt level and
operating lease commitments could impact our ability to obtain future financing
and continue our growth strategy.

Our consolidated debt and
operating lease obligations may have the effect generally of restricting our
flexibility in responding to changing market conditions and could make us more
vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. In addition, our level
of indebtedness may have other important consequences, including: restricting
our growth; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;
limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital
expenditures, debt service requirements, future acquisitions or other corporate
purposes; and limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of
our business. In such a situation, additional funds may not be available on
satisfactory terms when needed, or at all, whether in the next twelve months or
thereafter.


 12 






Fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely
affect our business and results of operations.

We are a multi-national,
multi-channel provider of office products and services. As a result, our
effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the
various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our
effective tax rate may be lower or higher than our tax rates have been in the
past due to numerous factors, including the sources of our income, any
agreements we may have with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, and
the tax filing positions we take in various jurisdictions. We base our estimate
of an effective tax rate at any given point in time upon a calculated mix of
the tax rates applicable to our company and to estimates of the amount of
business likely to be done in any given jurisdiction. The loss of one or more
agreements with taxing jurisdictions, a change in the mix of our business from
year to year and from country to country, changes in rules related to
accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws in any of the multiple
jurisdictions in which we operate or adverse outcomes from tax audits that we
may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result
in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate, which change could have a
material adverse effect on our business and results of our operations.

Compromises of our information security may adversely
affect our business.

Through our sales and
marketing activities, we collect and store certain personal information that
our customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional
programs, register on our website, or otherwise communicate and interact with
us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal
course of business. We may share information about such persons with vendors
that assist with certain aspects of our business. Despite instituted safeguards
for the protection of such information, we cannot be certain that all of our
systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack. Computer hackers may
attempt to penetrate our or our vendors’ network security and, if successful,
misappropriate confidential customer or business information. In addition, a
Company employee, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may
attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information
or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Loss of customer or
business information could disrupt our operations and expose us to claims from
customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and results of operations.

The California wage and hour class action lawsuit may
adversely affect our business and financial performance.

Various class action
lawsuits have been brought against us for alleged violations of what is known
as California’s “wage and hour” law. The plaintiffs have alleged that we
improperly classified store managers as exempt under the California wage and
hour law, making such managers ineligible for overtime wages. The plaintiffs
are seeking to require us to pay overtime wages to the putative class for the
period from October 21, 1995 to the present. The court has granted class
certification to the plaintiffs. The court’s ruling is procedural only and does
not address the merits of the plaintiffs’ allegations. The trial date for the
case has been scheduled for November 2007. We believe we have meritorious
defenses in the litigation and expect to prevail. If, however, there is an
adverse judgment from which there is no successful appeal, damages could range
from $10 million to $150 million, excluding interest and attorneys’ fees.

Item 1B