Item 1A.    Risk FactorsGlobal economic conditions could adversely affect our business and financial performance. As the world's leading office products company operating in 26 countries, our operating results and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on business and consumer spending. Increases in the levels of unemployment, particularly white collar unemployment, energy and commodity costs, health care costs, higher interest rates and taxes, a return to tighter credit markets, reduced consumer credit availability, turmoil in the financial markets (including recent events in the European Union), lower consumer confidence, lack of small business formation and other factors could result in a decline in business and consumer spending. Although there has been modest improvement in some of these measures, the political and economic environment in Europe has not improved, and the level of business and consumer spending across the globe is not where it was prior to the global recession.  Our business and financial performance may continue to be adversely affected, and our ability to generate cash flow may be negatively impacted, by current and future economic conditions if there is a renewed decline in business and consumer spending or if such spending remains stagnant.We face uncertainties in connection with the implementation of our strategies to transform our business, and our inability to successfully implement our strategies could adversely affect our business and financial performance.In September 2012, we announced plans to transform our business, including accelerating growth in online businesses by expanding our product assortment, integrating our retail and online offering, improving store productivity in North America, restructuring operations in order to reduce complexity and improve profitability of our European operations, and initiating a multi-year cost savings plan in order to help fund these investments. The success of our transformation is subject to both the risks affecting our business generally and the inherent difficulty associated with implementing our new strategies and is dependent on the skills, experience, and efforts of our management and other associates and our success with third parties.  If we are unable to successfully implement our plans, we risk taking additional charges in the future, including potential impairment of assets and charges for additional restructuring activities that may be required.  To the extent we pursue acquisitions or other operational and strategic opportunities, our success will depend on selecting the appropriate targets or partners, completing integration efforts quickly and effectively and realizing any expected synergies and cost savings. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these strategic initiatives or that the implementation of changes will result in the benefits or costs savings at the levels that we anticipate or at all, which may result in an adverse impact on our business and financial results. We have recognized substantial goodwill impairment charges in the current fiscal year and may be required to recognize additional goodwill impairment charges in the future. During the third quarter of 2012, we recorded a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge of $771.5 million related to our Europe Retail and Europe Catalog reporting units as a result of industry trends and the ongoing economic weakness in Europe, and the related strategic decision to reallocate resources to other Staples business units with greater growth potential.  At February 2, 2013, we had $3.22 billion of remaining goodwill on our balance sheet, and we could experience material goodwill impairment charges in the future.  Certain factors, including consumer spending levels, industry and macroeconomic conditions, the price of our stock and the future profitability of our businesses, might have a negative impact on the carrying value of our goodwill.  The process of testing goodwill for impairment involves numerous judgments, assumptions and estimates made by management which inherently reflect a high degree of uncertainty.  In addition, our goodwill impairment analysis includes a comparison of the aggregate estimated fair value of all reporting units to our total market capitalization.  If the business climate deteriorates, if our plans change or if we fail to manage our restructuring activities successfully, then actual results may not be consistent with these judgments, assumptions and estimates, and our goodwill may become impaired in future periods.  This would in turn have an adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations.  Our market is highly competitive and we may not be able to continue to compete successfully. The office supply and services market is highly competitive. We compete with a variety of local, regional, national and international retailers and online and traditional retailers, dealers and distributors for customers, associates, locations, products, services, and other important aspects of our business. In most of our geographic markets, we compete with other high-volume office supply providers such as Office Depot, OfficeMax and Lyreco, as well as mass merchants such as Wal-Mart, Target and Tesco, warehouse clubs such as Costco, computer and electronics retail stores such as Best Buy, specialty technology stores such as Apple, copy and print businesses such as FedEx Office, online retailers such as Amazon.com, and other discount retailers. We also compete with numerous mail order firms, contract stationer businesses, electronic commerce distributors, regional and local dealers and direct manufacturers. Some of our current and potential competitors are larger than we are, may have more experience in selling certain products or delivering services or may have substantially greater financial resources. Also, many of our competitors 7have increased their presence in our markets in recent years by expanding their assortment of office products and services, opening new stores near our existing stores, and offering direct delivery of office products.  Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors could affect prices or demand for our products and services. If we are unable appropriately respond to these competitive pressures, or offer the appropriate mix of products and services at competitive prices, our financial performance and market share could be adversely affected.  If the products and services that we offer fail to meet our customer needs, our performance could be adversely affected.We believe that the strategic plan we announced in September 2012 will help us to accelerate our growth and achieve our vision: every product your business needs to succeed.  One of our top priorities is to significantly expand our product offering beyond core office supplies.  Over the past few years we have had success driving growth in adjacent product categories, such as facilities and breakroom supplies.  These positive results have reinforced our strategy and we are now continuing to broaden our offering, focusing on categories including technology products, medical supplies, safety supplies, packaging and shipping supplies, and office decor.  Our success is contingent on providing our customers the selection of products, as well as services, at competitive prices that meet customers' changing needs and purchasing habits.  If we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers' purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products or missed opportunities for products and services we do not offer.   Failure to provide the products and services preferred by our customers could have a material adverse affect on our revenue, results of operations and ability to attract and retain customers.We may be unable to continue to enter new markets successfully. An important part of our business plan is to increase our presence in new markets, which includes accelerating growth in our online businesses and providing new products and service offerings. We may have limited experience in newer markets, and any such offerings may present new and difficult challenges. For example, when entering a new geographic or product market, customers may not be familiar with our brand or our competitors may have a larger, more established market presence. Our sales or profit levels in newer activities thus may not be successful enough to recoup our investments in them and may reduce our overall profitability. In addition, for our strategy to be successful, we must hire and train qualified associates and adapt management and operational systems to meet the needs of our expanded operations. If we are unable to enter new markets as efficiently as we planned, our future sales and profits may be adversely affected. Our international operations expose us to risks inherent in foreign operations. We currently operate in 25 countries outside the United States. In certain international market segments, we may not benefit from any first-to-market advantages or otherwise succeed. Cultural differences abroad and local practices of conducting business may conflict with our own business practices and ethics standards. Ensuring compliance with foreign and U.S. laws and our own policies may require that we implement new operational systems and financial controls, conduct audits or internal investigations, train our associates and third parties on our existing compliance methods, and take other actions, all of which may be expensive, divert management's time and impact our operations. There are also different employee/employer relationships and in some cases the existence of workers' councils that may delay or impact the implementation of some of these operational systems. In addition, differences in business practices in our international markets may cause customers to be less receptive to our business model than we expect. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Other factors that may also have an adverse impact on our international operations include limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds, foreign currency exchange restrictions, complex import and export schemes, increased local competition, our lack of familiarity with local customer preferences, unfavorable foreign trade policies, unstable political or economic conditions, and geopolitical events, including war and terrorism.Our effective tax rate may fluctuate. We are a multi-national, multi-channel provider of office products and services. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than our tax rates have been in the past due to numerous factors, including the sources of our income, any agreements we may have with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, changes in the laws and the tax filing positions we take in various jurisdictions. In addition, our effective tax rate may fluctuate quarterly, and the resulting tax rate may be negative or unusually high as a result of significant charges in a quarter that are not tax deductible, such as those charges associated with goodwill and long-lived asset impairment and our restructuring activities that we recorded in 2012. We base our estimate of an effective tax rate at any given point in time upon a calculated mix of the tax rates applicable to our company and to estimates of 8the amount of business likely to be done in any given jurisdiction. The loss of one or more agreements with taxing jurisdictions, a change in the mix of our business from year to year and from country to country, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, or changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations.Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could lead to lower earnings. As we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations has increased.  Sales from our delivery operations and stores outside the U.S. are denominated in the currency of the country in which these operations or stores are located and changes in foreign exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these businesses into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. Additionally, merchandising agreements may also be denominated in the currency of the country where the vendor resides. Although we attempt to mitigate such risks by sometimes entering into foreign exchange hedges or utilizing risk management strategies, such hedges and strategies themselves present some risk and thus may not be entirely successful in mitigating the risk.We may be unable to attract, train, engage and retain qualified associates. Our customers value courteous and knowledgeable associates, and an important part of our “Easy” brand strategy is a positive customer service experience. Accordingly, our performance depends on attracting, training, engaging and retaining a large number of qualified associates. We face intense competition for qualified associates, particularly in tight labor markets in emerging markets. Many of our associates, particularly in retail stores, are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling our labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the workforce, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and the cost of compliance with labor and wage laws and regulations. If we are unable to attract, train, engage and retain a sufficient number of qualified associates, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected.Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Historically, sales and profitability are generally stronger in the second half of our fiscal year than the first half of our fiscal year due in part to back-to-school, holiday and back-to-business seasons.  Factors that could also cause these quarterly fluctuations include: the mix of products sold; pricing actions of competitors; the level of advertising and promotional expenses; the expense and outcome of legal proceedings; severe weather; consumer confidence; and the other risk factors described in this section. Most of our operating expenses, such as occupancy costs and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations, we may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. Our indebtedness could adversely affect us by reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions.On October 1, 2012, we repaid all of our $325 million 7.375% senior notes.  In February 2013, we concluded a tender offer of our 9.75% notes due in January 2014, which resulted in the repurchase of $632.8 million of these notes and left $867.2 million notes outstanding.   Also, in January 2013, we issued $500 million 2.75% senior notes due January 2018 and $500 million 4.375% senior notes due January 2023.  As of February 2, 2013, our consolidated outstanding debt was $1.99 billion.  As of February 2, 2013, we also had $1.21 billion of additional borrowing capacity under our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and other lines of credit.   We are not restricted from incurring substantial additional indebtedness in the future.  Incurring substantial indebtedness in the future could reduce our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes and could make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and economic pressures.  Our level of indebtedness may also place us at a competitive disadvantage against less leveraged competitors. If we default or breach our obligations, we could be required to pay a higher rate of interest or lenders could require us to accelerate our repayment obligations.  9Our expanded offering of proprietary branded products may not improve our financial performance and may expose us to intellectual property liability, product liability, import/export liability, government investigations and claims, and other risks associated with global sourcing. Our product offering includes Staples, Quill and other proprietary branded products and services, which represented approximately 28% of our sales in fiscal 2012 and which typically provide for higher margins. Our proprietary branded products compete with other manufacturers' branded items that we offer. An increase in our proprietary branded products and services also exposes us to added risks that could increase the cost of doing business, such as  third party intellectual property infringement, false advertising, and product liability claims against us with respect to such products and services; and import and export compliance issues. Furthermore, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to importing merchandise from abroad, there can be no assurance that contractors, agents, vendors, manufacturers or other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely affect our operations or operating results. We also have greater exposure and responsibility to the consumer for replacements as a result of product defects. If any of our customers are harmed by our proprietary branded products or services, they may bring product liability and other claims against us or we may have to issue voluntary or mandatory recalls. The more proprietary branded products and services we offer, the more these risks increase. A loss of consumer acceptance of these products could also adversely affect our sales and gross margin rates. Any of these circumstances could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance.Problems in our information systems and technologies may disrupt our operations. We rely heavily on various information systems and technology to sell and deliver our products and services and operate our business, including systems to track inventory, to process and record transactions, to generate financial reports and to communicate with our associates, vendors and customers. Our ability to attract and retain customers, compete and operate effectively depends in part on a consistent, secure and easy to use technology infrastructure with reliable back-up systems. Any disruption to the Internet or our technology infrastructure, including a disruption affecting our web sites and information systems, may cause a decline in our customer satisfaction, jeopardize accurate financial reporting, impact our sales volumes or result in increased costs. We may also outsource our information technology to third parties. Although we continue to invest in our technology, if we are unable to continually add software and hardware, effectively manage or upgrade our systems and network infrastructure, and develop effective system availability, disaster recovery plans and protection solutions, our business could be disrupted thus subjecting us to liability and potentially harming our reputation.In addition, we will periodically make modifications and upgrades to our information systems and technology. Some of these modifications and upgrades will be outsourced to third parties. Modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or acquiring new systems with new functionality. Although we make a diligent effort to ensure that all providers of outsourced services observe proper internal control practices and procedures, we cannot assure that failures will not occur. We are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing our systems, including accurately capturing data, system disruptions and outsourcing to third parties. Information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Compromises of our information systems or unauthorized access to confidential information or our customers' or associates' personal information may materially harm our business or damage our reputation. Through our sales and marketing activities and our business operations, we collect and store confidential information and certain personal information from our customers and associates. For example, we handle, collect and store personal information in connection with our customers purchasing products or services, enrolling in our promotional or rewards programs, registering on our web site or otherwise communicating or interacting with us. We also process payment card information and check information. In addition, in the normal course of business, we gather and retain personal information about our associates and generate and have access to confidential business information. We may share confidential and personal information with vendors or other third parties in connection with processing of transactions, operating certain aspects of our business or for marketing purposes. Although we have taken steps designed to safeguard such information, there can be no assurance that such information will be protected against unauthorized access, use or disclosure. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our or our vendors' network security and, if successful, misappropriate such information. A Staples associate, contractor or other third-party with whom we do business may also misuse confidential or personal information to which they have access; attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information; or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. We could be subject to liability for failure to comply with privacy and information security laws, for failing to protect personal information, or for misusing personal information, such as use of such information for an unauthorized marketing purpose. Loss, unauthorized 10access to, or misuse of confidential or personal information could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees and other persons, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with third-party vendors and service providers. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of third-party vendors. In general, we do not have long-term contracts with these vendors committing them to provide products to us on acceptable terms. For example, we derive benefits from vendor allowances and promotional incentives which may not be offered in the future. We also cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of many of the products that we offer for sale and are dependent on the availability and pricing of key products, including paper, ink, toner and technology. Some of the products we offer are supplied to us on an exclusive basis and may be difficult to replace in a timely manner. Additionally, we may not be able to source products that we want to offer for sale on acceptable terms, or at all. Disruptions in the availability of raw materials used in the production of these products, or quality issues that cause us to initiate voluntary or mandatory recalls for proprietary products we sell, may result in customer dissatisfaction, damage our reputation and adversely affect our sales.Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. Our ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, trade restrictions, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, inflation and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. We also rely upon many independent service providers for services that are important to many aspects of our business. If our vendors or service providers fail or are unable to perform as expected and we are unable to replace them quickly, our business could be harmed at least temporarily until we are able to do so and potentially, in some cases, permanently. These and other issues affecting our vendors and service providers could adversely affect our reputation, business and financial performance.Various legal proceedings may adversely affect our business and financial performance. We are involved in various private legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, intellectual property, commercial, tort and other litigation. As our workforce expands, we are subject to potentially increasing challenges by private litigants regarding compliance with local, state and national labor regulations, whether meritorious or not.  In addition, companies have increasingly been subject to employment related class action litigation, and we have experienced an increase in “wage and hour” class action lawsuits.  We expect that these trends will continue to affect us. As our operations grow, we are also subject to claims that the technology we use or the products we sell infringe intellectual property rights of third parties. Such claims, whether meritorious or not, involve significant managerial resources and can become costly. Generally, we have indemnification protections in our agreements which our vendors or licensors often have honored; however, there are no assurances that such vendors or licensors will continue to do so in the future. We estimate exposure and establish reserves for our estimated significant liabilities, however, litigation is inherently unpredictable and the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies could be unexpected and require us to pay substantial amounts of money or take actions that adversely affect our operations. In addition, defending against these claims may involve significant time and expense. Given the large size of our operations and workforce, the visibility of our brand and our position as an industry leader, we may regularly be involved in legal proceedings that could adversely affect our business and financial performance.Failure to comply with laws, rules and regulations could negatively affect our business operations and financial performance.      Our business is subject to federal, state, local and international laws, rules and regulations, such as state and local wage and hour laws, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the False Claims Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”), securities laws, import and export laws (including customs regulations), unclaimed property laws, and many others. The complexity of the regulatory environment in which we operate and the related cost of compliance are both increasing due to legal and regulatory requirements, increased enforcement and our ongoing expansion into new markets and new channels. In addition, as a result of operating in multiple countries, we must comply with multiple foreign laws and regulations that may differ substantially from country to country and may conflict with corresponding U.S. laws and regulations. We may also be subject to investigations or audits by governmental authorities and regulatory agencies, which can occur in the ordinary course of business or which can result from increased scrutiny from a particular agency towards an industry, country or practice. If we fail to comply with laws, rules and regulations or the manner in which they are interpreted or applied, we may be subject to government enforcement action, class action litigation or other litigation, damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, damages, fines and penalties, and increased cost of regulatory compliance, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. 11Item 1B