Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which is frequently difficult, expensive and time-consuming to comply.The regulated waste management and secure information destruction industries are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the collection, transportation, packaging, labeling, handling, documentation, reporting, treatment and disposal of regulated waste and the proper handling and protection of personal and confidential information. Our business requires us to obtain many permits, authorizations, approvals, certificates, and other types of governmental permission from and to comply with various regulations in every jurisdiction in which we operate. Federal, state and local regulations change often, and new regulations are frequently adopted. Changes in the regulations could require us to obtain new permits or to change the way in which we operate our business. We might be unable to obtain the new permits that we require, and the cost of compliance with new or changed regulations could be significant. Many of the permits that we require, especially those to build and operate processing plants and transfer facilities, are difficult and time-consuming to obtain. They may also contain conditions 13Table of Contentsor restrictions that limit our ability to operate efficiently, and they may not be issued as quickly as we need them (or at all). If we cannot obtain the permits that we need when we need them, or if they contain unfavorable conditions, it could substantially impair our operations and reduce our revenues and/or profitability.The level of governmental enforcement of environmental regulations has an uncertain effect on our business and could reduce the demand for our services.We believe that strict enforcement of laws and regulations relating to regulated waste collection and treatment and the proper handling and protection of personal and confidential information by governmental authorities can have a positive effect on our business. These laws and regulations increase the demand for our services. Relaxation of enforcement or other changes in governmental regulation of regulated waste and personal and confidential information could increase the number of competitors we face or reduce the need for our services.The amount of our indebtedness could adversely affect our business.As of December 31, 2015, we had a total of $3.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including long-term debt and short-term debt. We also have the ability to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness, including up to an additional $685.8 million under our revolving credit facility. Our annual cash obligations to service our indebtedness are approximately $375 million. In addition, the aggregate amount of dividends payable on our depositary shares is approximately $40.4 million on an annual basis. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to repay or to refinance our debt as it comes due or to pay dividends on our depositary shares, this would have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock and depositary shares. Our leverage could have adverse consequences on our business, including the following:•we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our available cash to payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness;•our ability to access credit markets on terms we deem acceptable may be impaired; and•our leverage may limit our flexibility to adjust to changing market conditions.Servicing debt and funding other obligations requires a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control.Our ability to make payments on and refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations and capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash flow and secure financing in the future. Our ability to generate future cash flow depends, among other things, upon:•future operating performance;•general economic conditions;•competition; and•legislative and regulatory factors affecting our operations and business.Some of these factors are beyond our control. There is no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate 14Table of Contentssufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.Restrictions in our private placement notes, the Term Loan Credit Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions and value of our securities.The terms of our private placement notes require that we comply with certain covenants and will include events of default and other terms similar to those in certain of our existing private placement notes. Each of the Term Loan Credit Facility and Revolving Credit Facility also contains customary affirmative covenants, including, among others, covenants pertaining to the delivery of financial statements; notices of default and certain other material events; payment of obligations; preservation of corporate existence, rights, privileges, permits, licenses, franchises and intellectual property; maintenance of property and insurance and compliance with laws, as well as customary negative covenants for facilities of this type, including, among others, limitations on the incurrence of liens, investments and indebtedness; mergers and certain other fundamental changes; dispositions of assets; restricted payments; changes in our line of business; transactions with affiliates and burdensome agreements. Each facility contains a financial covenant requiring maintenance of a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio of 3.00 to 1.00 as of the end of any quarter and a financial covenant requiring maintenance of a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of between 3.75 and 4.35 to 1.00, depending on factors determined in accordance with the terms of the applicable facility. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the private placement notes, the Term Loan Credit Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial, and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. A failure to comply with these provisions could result in a default or an event of default. Upon an event of default, unless waived, the lenders could elect to terminate its commitments, cease making further loans, require cash collateralization of letters of credit, cause its loans to become due and payable in full and force us and our subsidiaries into bankruptcy or liquidation. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and the holders of our units could experience a partial or total loss of their investment.We will incur significant acquisition-related integration costs in connection with the Shred-it acquisition.We have developed and are in the process of executing a plan to integrate the operations of Shred-it to achieve anticipates synergies of between $20 million to $30 million in connection with the acquisition by fiscal year 2018. We also expect to incur costs to implement such cost savings measures. We anticipate that we will incur certain non-recurring charges in connection with this integration, including costs and charges associated with integrating operations, processes and systems. We cannot identify the timing, nature and amount of all such charges. The significant acquisition-related integration costs could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such charges are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid. Although we believe that the elimination of duplicative costs such as selling, general and administrative expenses, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses such as the optimization of logistics, truck and plant utilization, cross-utilization of fleet, improvements in route density and facility optimization, will offset incremental acquisition-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. We expect it will take approximately two years from the closing of the Shred-it acquisition to implement the 15Table of Contentscost savings measures to achieve our anticipated annual cost savings from synergies. We have identified some, but not all, of the actions necessary to achieve our anticipated cost and operational savings. Accordingly, the cost and operational savings may not be achievable in our anticipated amount or timeframe or at all. We may not realize the synergies and growth opportunities that are anticipated from the Shred-it acquisition or other acquisitions.The benefits we expect to achieve as a result of the Shred-it acquisition or other acquisitions that we complete will depend, in part, on our ability to realize targeted synergies and anticipated growth opportunities. Our success in realizing these synergies and growth opportunities, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of other business and operations with our pre-existing business and operations. Even if we are able to integrate these businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the synergies and growth opportunities we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all. While we anticipate that certain expenses will be incurred, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. Accordingly, the benefits from the Shred-it acquisition or other acquisitions may be offset by unexpected costs incurred or delays in integrating the companies, which could cause our financial estimates to be inaccurate.If we are unable to acquire regulated waste, secure information destruction and other businesses, our revenue and profit growth may be slowed.Historically, our growth strategy has been based in part on our ability to acquire and integrate other businesses. We do not know whether in the future we will be able to:•identify suitable businesses to buy;•complete the purchase of those businesses on terms acceptable to us; and•avoid or overcome any concerns expressed by regulators.We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of regulated waste and secure information destruction companies and other businesses. This competition may result in fewer opportunities to purchase companies that are for sale. It may also result in higher purchase prices for the businesses that we want to purchase.We also do not know whether our growth strategy will continue to be effective. Our business is significantly larger than before, and new acquisitions may not have the incremental benefits that we have obtained in the past.The implementation of our acquisition strategy could be affected in certain instances by the concerns of federal and state regulators, which could result in our not being able to realize the full synergies or profitability of particular acquisitions.We may become subject to inquiries and investigations by federal or state antitrust regulators from time to time in the course of completing acquisitions of other regulated waste and secure information destruction businesses. In order to obtain regulatory clearance for a particular acquisition, we could be required to modify certain operating practices of the acquired business or to divest ourselves of one or more assets of the acquired business. Changes in the terms of our acquisitions required by regulators or agreed to by us in order to settle regulatory investigations could impede our acquisition strategy or reduce the anticipated synergies or profitability of our acquisitions. The likelihood and outcome of inquiries and investigations from federal or state regulators in the course of completing acquisitions cannot be predicted.16Table of ContentsAggressive pricing by existing competitors and the entrance of new competitors could drive down our profits and slow our growth.The industries in which we participate are very competitive because of low barriers to entry, among other reasons. This competition has required us in the past to reduce our prices, especially to large account customers, and may require us to reduce our prices in the future. Substantial price reductions could significantly reduce our earnings.We face direct competition from a large number of small, local competitors. Because it requires very little financial investment or technical know-how to compete in the collection and transportation of regulated wastes or the secure destruction of personal and confidential information, there are many regional and local companies in these industries. We face competition from these businesses, and competition from them is likely to exist in new locations to which we may expand in the future. In addition, large national companies with substantial resources operate in the markets we serve. For example, in the United States, Waste Management, Inc., and Clean Harbors, and Iron Mountain all offer competing services.Our competitors could take actions that would hurt our growth strategy, including the support of regulations that could delay or prevent us from obtaining or keeping permits. They might also give financial support to citizens’ groups that oppose our plans to locate a processing or transfer facility at a particular location.Risks from our international operations could impair our ability to expand in certain international markets and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We plan to continue to grow both domestically and internationally. We have established operations in the United States and 21 other countries. Foreign operations carry special risks including:•exchange rate fluctuations;•government controls;•import and export license requirements;•political or economic instability;•trade restrictions;•changes in tariffs and taxes;•permitting and regulatory standards;•differences in local laws, regulations, practices, and business customs;•restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States or movement of funds to other countries;•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and•increases and volatility in labor costs.Any of the foregoing or other factors associated with doing business abroad could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We face risks associated with project work and services that are provided on a non-recurring basis.While the majority of our business is based on long-term contracts for regularly scheduled service, we do have a portion of revenue which is derived from short-term projects or services that 17Table of Contentswe provide on a non-recurring basis. Product recall and retrieval events, one-time purge events for secure information destruction, and certain hazardous waste services that we provide on a project or non-recurring basis are not predictable in terms of frequency, size or duration. Our customers’ need for these services could be influenced by regulatory changes, fluctuations in commodity market performance, natural disasters and acts of God, or other factors beyond our control. Variability in the demand for these services could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Fluctuations in the commodity market related to the demand and price for recycled paper may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.We sell nearly all of the shredded paper from our secure information destruction business to paper companies and recycled paper brokers. Sorted office paper is marketed as a commodity and is subject to significant demand and price fluctuations beyond our control. Historically, economic and market shifts, fluctuations in capacity and changes in foreign currency exchange rates have created cyclical changes in prices, sales volume and margins for pulp and paper products. The length and magnitude of industry cycles have varied over time and by product, but generally reflect changes in macroeconomic conditions and levels of industry capacity. The overall levels of demand for the pulp and paper products, and consequently its sales and profitability, reflect fluctuations in levels of end-user demand, which depend in part on general macroeconomic conditions in North America and worldwide, as well as the threat of digitization. As a result, the market demand for recycled paper can be volatile due to factors beyond our control. Lack of demand for our shredded paper material could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our earnings could decline resulting in charges to impair intangible assets, such as goodwill.As a result of our various acquisitions, our balance sheet at December 31, 2015 contains goodwill of $3.8 billion and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $1.8 billion. In accordance with the FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we evaluate on an ongoing basis whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment to the value of indefinite-lived intangible assets such as goodwill. As circumstances after an acquisition can change, we may not realize the value of these intangible assets. If we were to determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to incur non-cash charges for the impaired portion of goodwill or other unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the impairment charge occurs.The loss of our senior executives could affect our ability to manage our business profitably.We depend on a small number of senior executives. Our future success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to keep these executives and to hire other highly qualified employees at all levels. We compete with other potential employers for employees, and we may not be successful in hiring and keeping the executives and other employees that we need. We do not have written employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and officers and other key employees could leave us with little or no prior notice, either individually or as part of a group. Our loss of, or inability to hire, key employees could impair our ability to manage our business and direct its growth.We face risks relating to our size and scale.We have over 800 facilities in 22 countries and more than 25,000 employees worldwide. The sheer size of our operations exposes us to the risk that systems and practices will not be implemented uniformly throughout our Company and that information will not be shared across the locations and countries in a timely and appropriate manner. Any misalignment in strategic initiatives 18Table of Contentsand/or difficulties or delays in transmission of information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The handling and treatment of regulated waste carries with it the risk of personal injury to employees and others.Our business requires us to handle materials that may be infectious or hazardous to life and property in other ways. While we try to handle such materials with care and in accordance with accepted and safe methods, the possibility of accidents, leaks, spills, and acts of God always exists. Examples of possible exposure to such materials include:•truck accidents;•damaged or leaking containers;•improper storage of regulated waste by customers;•improper placement by customers of materials into the waste stream that we are not authorized or able to process, such as certain body parts and tissues; or•malfunctioning treatment plant equipment.Human beings, animals or property could be injured, sickened or damaged by exposure to regulated waste. This in turn could result in lawsuits in which we are found liable for such injuries, and substantial damages could be awarded against us.While we carry liability insurance intended to cover these contingencies, particular instances may occur that are not insured against or that are inadequately insured against. An uninsured or underinsured loss could be substantial and could impair our profitability and reduce our liquidity.The handling of regulated waste exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities, which may not be covered by insurance.As a company engaged in regulated waste management, we face risks of liability for environmental contamination. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("CERCLA") and similar state laws impose strict liability on current or former owners and operators of facilities that release hazardous substances into the environment as well as on the businesses that generate those substances and the businesses that transport them to the facilities. Responsible parties may be liable for substantial investigation and clean-up costs even if they operated their businesses properly and complied with applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several, which means that if we were found to be a business with responsibility for a particular CERCLA site, we could be required to pay the entire cost of the investigation and clean-up even though we were not the party responsible for the release of the hazardous substance and even though other companies might also be liable.Our pollution liability insurance excludes liabilities under CERCLA. Thus, if we were to incur liability under CERCLA and if we could not identify other parties responsible under the law whom we are able to compel to contribute to our expenses, the cost to us could be substantial and could impair our profitability and reduce our liquidity. Our customer service agreements make clear that the customer is responsible for making sure that only appropriate materials are disposed of. If there were a claim against us that a customer might be legally liable for, we might not be successful in recovering our damages from the customer.The handling of secure information for destruction exposes us to potential data security risks that could result in monetary damages against us and could otherwise damage our reputation, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.19Table of ContentsThe protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to our business. The regulatory environment in the United States and Canada surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. Certain legislation, including the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, and the Economic Espionage Act in the United States and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act in Canada, require documents to be securely destroyed to avoid identity theft and inadvertent leakage of confidential and sensitive information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. In addition, an increasing number of countries have introduced and/or increased enforcement of comprehensive privacy laws, or are expected to do so. The continued emphasis on information security as well as increasing concerns about government surveillance may lead customers to request us to take additional measures to enhance security and/or assume higher liability under our contracts. As a result of legislative initiatives and customer demands, we may have to modify our operations to further improve data security. Any such modifications may result in increased expenses and operational complexity, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.Attacks on our information technology systems could damage our reputation, harm our businesses and adversely affect our results of operations.Our reputation for the secure handling of customer and other sensitive information is critical to the success of our business. We rely heavily on various proprietary and third party information systems. Although we have implemented safeguards and taken steps to prevent potential security breaches, our information technology and network infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error, malfeasance, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, power outages, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other disruptions. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to prevent these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. A successful breach of the security of our information systems could lead to theft or misuse of our customers’ proprietary or confidential information and result in third party claims against us and reputational harm, all of which could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition or results of operations. Our management depends on relevant and reliable information for decision making purposes, including key performance indicators and financial reporting. A lack of relevant and reliable information could preclude us from optimizing our overall performance. Any significant loss of data, failure to maintain reliable data, disruptions affecting our information systems, or delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to continue to operate our businesses without significant interruption in the event of a disaster or other disruption depends in part on the ability of our information systems to operate in accordance with our disaster recovery and business continuity plans. If our information systems fail and our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans are not adequate to address such failures, or if our business interruption insurance does not sufficiently compensate us for any losses that we may incur, our revenues and profits could be reduced and the reputation of our brands and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, remediation of such problems could result in significant, unplanned capital investments.Item 1B