Item 1A. Risk FactorsWe are subject to extensive governmental regulation, which is frequently difficult, expensive and time-consuming to comply with.The regulated waste management industry is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the collection, transportation, packaging, labeling, handling, documentation, reporting, treatment and disposal of regulated waste. Our business requires us to obtain many permits, authorizations, approvals, certificates, and other types of governmental permission from every jurisdiction in which we operate. We believe that we currently comply in all material respects with all applicable permitting requirements. Federal, state and local regulations change often, and new regulations are frequently adopted. Changes in the regulations could require us to obtain new permits or to change the way in which we operate under existing permits. We might be unable to obtain the new permits that we require, and the cost of compliance with new or changed regulations could be significant.Many of the permits that we require, especially those to build and operate processing plants and transfer facilities, are difficult and time-consuming to obtain. They may also contain conditions or restrictions that limit our ability to operate efficiently, and they may not be issued as quickly as we need them (or at all). If we cannot obtain the permits that we need when we need them, or if they contain unfavorable conditions, it could substantially impair our operations and reduce our revenues and/or profitability.The level of governmental enforcement of environmental regulations has an uncertain effect on our business and could reduce the demand for our services.We believe that strict enforcement of laws and regulations relating to regulated waste collection and treatment by governmental authorities can have a positive effect on our business. These laws and regulations increase the demand for our services. Relaxation of enforcement or other changes in governmental regulation of regulated waste could increase the number of competitors we face or reduce the need for our services.If we are unable to acquire regulated waste and other businesses, our revenue and profit growth may be slowed.Historically, our growth strategy has been based in part on our ability to acquire regulated waste and other businesses. We do not know whether in the future we will be able to:•identify suitable businesses to buy;•complete the purchase of those businesses on terms acceptable to us;•improve the operations of the businesses that we do buy and successfully integrate their operations into our own; or•avoid or overcome any concerns expressed by regulators.We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of regulated waste companies and other businesses. This competition may result in fewer opportunities to purchase companies that are for sale. It may also result in higher purchase prices for the businesses that we want to purchase.11Table of ContentsWe also do not know whether our growth strategy will continue to be effective. Our business is significantly larger than before, and new acquisitions may not have the incremental benefits that we have obtained in the past.The implementation of our acquisition strategy could be affected in certain instances by the concerns of federal and state regulators, which could result in our not being able to realize the full synergies or profitability of particular acquisitions.We may become subject to inquiries and investigations by federal or state antitrust regulators from time to time in the course of completing acquisitions of other regulated waste businesses. In order to obtain regulatory clearance for a particular acquisition, we could be required to modify certain operating practices of the acquired business or to divest ourselves of one or more assets of the acquired business. Changes in the terms of our acquisitions required by regulators or agreed to by us in order to settle regulatory investigations could impede our acquisition strategy or reduce the anticipated synergies or profitability of our acquisitions. The likelihood and outcome of inquiries and investigations from federal or state regulators in the course of completing acquisitions cannot be predicted.Aggressive pricing by existing competitors and the entrance of new competitors could drive down our profits and slow our growth.The regulated waste industry is very competitive because of low barriers to entry, among other reasons. This competition has required us in the past to reduce our prices, especially to large account customers, and may require us to reduce our prices in the future. Substantial price reductions could significantly reduce our earnings.We face direct competition from a large number of small, local competitors. Because it requires very little financial investment or technical know-how to compete in the collection and transportation of regulated waste, there are many regional and local companies in the industry. We face competition from these businesses, and competition from them is likely to exist in new locations to which we may expand in the future. In addition, large national companies with substantial resources may decide to enter the markets in which we serve. For example, in the United States, Waste Management, Inc., and Clean Harbors, both major regulated waste companies, offer regulated waste management services to hospitals and other large and small quantity generators of regulated waste.Our competitors could take actions that would hurt our growth strategy, including the support of regulations that could delay or prevent us from obtaining or keeping permits. They might also give financial support to citizens’ groups that oppose our plans to locate a processing or transfer facility at a particular location.The loss of our senior executives could affect our ability to manage our business profitably.We depend on a small number of senior executives. Our future success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to keep these executives and to hire other highly qualified employees at all levels. We compete with other potential employers for employees, and we may not be successful in hiring and keeping the executives and other employees that we need. We do not have written employment agreements with any of our executive officers, and officers and other key employees could leave us with little or no prior notice, either individually or as part of a group. Our loss of, or inability to hire, key employees could impair our ability to manage our business and direct its growth.Restrictions in our senior unsecured credit facility may limit our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt, make acquisitions and make other investments.Our senior unsecured credit facility and the note purchase agreements for our private placement notes contain covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders or other payments unless we satisfy certain financial tests and comply with various financial ratios.12Table of ContentsThey also contain covenants that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, acquire other businesses and make capital expenditures, and imposes various other restrictions. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise.Our expansion into foreign countries exposes us to unfamiliar regulations and may expose us to new obstacles to growth.We plan to continue to grow both domestically and internationally. We have established operations in the United States, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Portugal, Romania, Republic of Korea, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Foreign operations carry special risks. Although our business in foreign countries has not yet been materially affected, our business in the countries in which we currently operate and those in which we may operate in the future could be limited or disrupted by:•exchange rate fluctuations;•government controls;•import and export license requirements;•political or economic instability;•trade restrictions;•changes in tariffs and taxes;•our unfamiliarity with local laws, regulations, practices, and customs;•restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States or movement of funds to other countries; and•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.Foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and regulatory standards different from those in the United States. If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals, or if we cannot obtain them when or on terms we expect, our growth and profitability from international operations could be limited. Fluctuations in currency exchange could have similar effects.Our earnings could decline resulting in charges to impair intangible assets, such as goodwill.As a result of our various acquisitions, our balance sheet at December 31, 2014 contains goodwill of $2.4 billion and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization of $909.6 million (including indefinite lived intangibles of $253.7 million). In accordance with the FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we evaluate on an ongoing basis whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment of the value of indefinite-lived intangible assets such as goodwill. As circumstances after an acquisition can change, we may not realize the value of these intangible assets. If we were to determine that a significant impairment has occurred, we would be required to incur non-cash charges for the impaired portion of goodwill and other unamortized intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the impairment charge occurs.The handling and treatment of regulated waste carries with it the risk of personal injury to employees and others.Our business requires us to handle materials that may be infectious or hazardous to life and property in other ways. While we try to handle such materials with care and in accordance with accepted and safe methods, the possibility of accidents, leaks, spills, and acts of God always exists. Examples of possible exposure to such materials include:•truck accidents;•damaged or leaking containers;•improper storage of regulated waste by customers;•improper placement by customers of materials into the waste stream that we are not authorized or able to process, such as certain body parts and tissues; or13Table of Contents•malfunctioning treatment plant equipment.Human beings, animals or property could be injured, sickened or damaged by exposure to regulated waste. This in turn could result in lawsuits in which we are found liable for such injuries, and substantial damages could be awarded against us.While we carry liability insurance intended to cover these contingencies, particular instances may occur that are not insured against or that are inadequately insured against. An uninsured or underinsured loss could be substantial and could impair our profitability and reduce our liquidity.The handling of regulated waste exposes us to the risk of environmental liabilities, which may not be covered by insurance.As a company engaged in regulated waste management, we face risks of liability for environmental contamination. The federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 ("CERCLA") and similar state laws impose strict liability on current or former owners and operators of facilities that release hazardous substances into the environment as well as on the businesses that generate those substances and the businesses that transport them to the facilities. Responsible parties may be liable for substantial investigation and clean-up costs even if they operated their businesses properly and complied with applicable federal and state laws and regulations. Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several, which means that if we were found to be a business with responsibility for a particular CERCLA site, we could be required to pay the entire cost of the investigation and clean-up even though we were not the party responsible for the release of the hazardous substance and even though other companies might also be liable.Our pollution liability insurance excludes liabilities under CERCLA. Thus, if we were to incur liability under CERCLA and if we could not identify other parties responsible under the law whom we are able to compel to contribute to our expenses, the cost to us could be substantial and could impair our profitability and reduce our liquidity. Our customer service agreements make clear that the customer is responsible for making sure that only appropriate materials are disposed of. If there were a claim against us that a customer might be legally liable for, we might not be successful in recovering our damages from the customer.Item 1B