Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    We are
    subject to extensive governmental regulation which it is
    frequently difficult, expensive and time-consuming to comply
    with.


 


    The medical waste management industry is subject to extensive
    federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the
    collection, transportation, packaging, labeling, handling,
    documentation, reporting, treatment and disposal of regulated
    medical waste. Our business requires us to obtain many permits,
    authorizations, approvals, certificates or other types of
    governmental permission from every jurisdiction where we
    operate. We believe that we currently comply in all material
    respects with all applicable permitting requirements. State and
    local regulations change often, however, and new regulations are
    frequently adopted. Changes in the regulations could require us
    to obtain new permits or to change the way in which we operate
    under existing permits. We might be unable to obtain the new
    permits that we require, and the cost of compliance with new or
    changed regulations could be significant.


 


    Many of the permits that we require, especially those to build
    and operate treatment plants and transfer facilities, are
    difficult and time-consuming to obtain. They may also contain
    conditions or restrictions that limit our ability to operate
    efficiently, and they may not be issued as quickly as we need
    them (or at all). If we cannot obtain the permits that we need
    when we need them, or if they contain unfavorable conditions, it
    could substantially impair our operations and reduce our
    revenues.


 



    The
    handling and treatment of hazardous medical waste carries with
    it the risk of personal injury to employees and
    others.


 


    Our business requires us to handle materials that may be
    infectious or hazardous to life and property in other ways.
    While we try to handle such materials with care and in
    accordance with accepted and safe methods, the possibility of
    accidents, leaks, spills, and acts of God always exists.
    Examples of possible exposure to such materials include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    truck accidents;



 


     
        • 

    
    damaged or leaking containers;



 


     
        • 

    
    improper storage of medical waste by customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    improper placement by customers of materials into the waste
    stream that we are not authorized or able to process, such as
    certain body parts and tissues; or



 


     
        • 

    
    malfunctioning treatment plant equipment.





 


    Human beings, animals or property could be injured, sickened or
    damaged by exposure to medical waste. This in turn could result
    in lawsuits in which we are found liable for such injuries, and
    substantial damages could be awarded against us.


 


    While we carry liability insurance intended to cover these
    contingencies, particular instances may occur that are not
    insured against or that are inadequately insured against. An
    uninsured or underinsured loss could be substantial and could
    impair our profitability and reduce our liquidity.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    The
    handling of medical waste exposes us to the risk of
    environmental liabilities, which may not be covered by
    insurance.


 


    As a company engaged in medical waste management, we face risks
    of liability for environmental contamination. The federal
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
    Act of 1980, or CERCLA, and similar state laws impose strict
    liability on current or former owners and operators of
    facilities that release hazardous substances into the
    environment as well as on the businesses that generate those
    substances and the businesses that transport them to the
    facilities. Responsible parties may be liable for substantial
    investigation and
    clean-up
    costs even if they operated their businesses properly and
    complied with applicable federal and state laws and regulations.
    Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several, which means
    that if we were found to be a business with responsibility for a
    particular CERCLA site, we could be required to pay the entire
    cost of the investigation and
    clean-up
    even though we were not the party responsible for the release of
    the hazardous substance and even though other companies might
    also be liable.


 


    Our pollution liability insurance excludes liabilities under
    CERCLA. Thus, if we were to incur liability under CERCLA and if
    we could not identify other parties responsible under the law
    whom we are able to compel to contribute to our expenses, the
    cost to us could be substantial and could impair our
    profitability and reduce our liquidity. Our customer service
    agreements make clear that the customer is responsible for
    making sure that only appropriate materials are disposed of. If
    there were a claim against us that a customer might be legally
    liable for, we might not be successful in recovering our damages
    from the customer.


 



    The
    level of governmental enforcement of environmental regulations
    has an uncertain effect on our business and could reduce the
    demand for our services.


 


    We believe that the government’s strict enforcement of laws
    and regulations relating to medical waste collection and
    treatment has been good for our business. These laws and
    regulations increase the demand for our services. A relaxation
    of standards or other changes in governmental regulation of
    medical waste could increase the number of competitors or reduce
    the need for our services.


 



    If we
    are unable to acquire other medical waste businesses, our
    revenue and profit growth may be slowed.


 


    Historically our growth strategy has been based in substantial
    part on our ability to acquire other medical waste businesses.
    We do not know whether in the future we will be able to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    identify suitable businesses to buy;



 


     
        • 

    
    complete the purchase of those businesses on terms acceptable to
    us;



 


     
        • 

    
    improve the operations of the businesses that we do buy and
    successfully integrate their operations into our own; or



 


     
        • 

    
    avoid or overcome any concerns expressed by regulators.





 


    We compete with other potential buyers for the acquisition of
    other medical waste companies. This competition may result in
    fewer opportunities to purchase companies that are for sale. It
    may also result in higher purchase prices for the businesses
    that we want to purchase.


 


    We also do not know whether our growth strategy will continue to
    be effective. Our business is significantly larger than before,
    and new acquisitions may not have the desired benefits that we
    have obtained in the past.


 



    The
    implementation of our acquisition strategy could be affected in
    certain instances by the concerns of state regulators, which
    could result in our not being able to realize the full synergies
    or profitability of particular acquisitions.


 


    We may become subject to inquiries and investigations by state
    antitrust regulators from time to time in the course of
    completing acquisitions of other medical waste businesses. In
    order to obtain regulatory



    
    13



Table of Contents




    clearance for a particular acquisition, we could be required to
    modify certain operating practices of the acquired business or
    to divest ourselves of one or more assets of the acquired
    business. Changes in the terms of our acquisitions required by
    regulators or agreed to by us in order to settle regulatory
    investigations could impede our acquisition strategy or reduce
    the anticipated synergies or profitability of our acquisitions.
    The likelihood and outcome of inquiries and investigations from
    state regulators in the course of completing acquisitions cannot
    be predicted.


 



    Aggressive
    pricing by existing competitors and the entrance of new
    competitors could drive down our profits and slow our
    growth.


 


    The medical waste industry is very competitive because of low
    barriers to entry, among other reasons. This competition has
    required us in the past to reduce our prices, especially to
    large account customers, and may require us to reduce our prices
    in the future. Substantial price reductions could significantly
    reduce our earnings.


 


    We face direct competition from a large number of small, local
    competitors. Because it requires very little money or technical
    know-how to compete with us in the collection and transportation
    of medical waste, there are many regional and local companies in
    the industry. We face competition from these businesses, and
    competition from them is likely to exist in the new locations to
    which we may expand in the future. In addition, large national
    companies with substantial resources may decide to enter the
    medical waste industry. For example, Waste Management, Inc., a
    major solid waste treatment company, announced in February 2005
    that it intended to begin offering medical waste management
    services to hospitals and possibly other large quantity
    generators of medical waste.


 


    Our competitors could take actions that would hurt our growth
    strategy, including the support of regulations that could delay
    or prevent us from obtaining or keeping permits. They might also
    give financial support to citizens’ groups that oppose our
    plans to locate a treatment or transfer facility at a particular
    location.


 



    Restrictions
    in our senior unsecured credit facility may limit our ability to
    pay dividends, incur additional debt, make acquisitions and make
    other investments.


 


    Our senior unsecured credit facility contains covenants that
    restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders or
    other payments unless we satisfy certain financial tests and
    comply with various financial ratios.


 


    It also contains covenants that limit our ability to incur
    additional indebtedness, acquire other businesses and make
    capital expenditures, and imposes various other restrictions.
    These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business
    and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential
    business opportunities as they arise.


 



    The
    loss of our senior executives could affect our ability to manage
    our business profitably.


 


    We depend on a small number of senior executives. Our future
    success will depend upon, among other things, our ability to
    keep these executives and to hire other highly qualified
    employees at all levels. We compete with other potential
    employers for employees, and we may not be successful in hiring
    and keeping the executives and other employees that we need. We
    do not have written employment agreements with any of our
    executive officers, and officers and other key employees could
    leave us with little or no prior notice, either individually or
    as part of a group. Our loss of or inability to hire key
    employees could impair our ability to manage our business and
    direct its growth.


 



    Our
    expansion into foreign countries exposes us to unfamiliar
    regulations and may expose us to new obstacles to
    growth.


 


    We plan to grow both in the United States and in foreign
    countries. We have established substantial operations in Canada,
    Mexico and the United Kingdom. Foreign operations carry special
    risks. Although our



    
    14



Table of Contents




    business in foreign countries has not yet been affected, our
    business in the countries in which we currently operate and
    those in which we may operate in the future could be limited or
    disrupted by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    government controls;



 


     
        • 

    
    import and export license requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    political or economic insecurity;



 


     
        • 

    
    trade restrictions;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in tariffs and taxes;



 


     
        • 

    
    exchange rate fluctuations;



 


     
        • 

    
    our unfamiliarity with local laws, regulations, practices and
    customs;



 


     
        • 

    
    restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United
    States;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties in staffing and managing international operations.





 


    Foreign governments and agencies often establish permit and
    regulatory standards different from those in the United States.
    If we cannot obtain foreign regulatory approvals, or if we
    cannot obtain them when we expect, our growth and profitability
    from international operations could be limited. Fluctuations in
    currency exchange could have similar effects.


 



    Litigation
    is always unpredictable and adverse judgments against us could
    require us to pay substantial amounts.


 


    We are parties to private antitrust litigation described
    elsewhere in this report (see Part I,
    Item 3 — Legal Proceedings). We do not
    believe that any of the lawsuits against us has merit, and we
    are vigorously defending the litigation. Litigation, however, is
    by its nature unpredictable, and the outcome of these lawsuits
    cannot be assessed with any degree of certainty. Our insurance
    may or may not cover some or any of the claims in these
    lawsuits, and to the extent that it does not, we, and not an
    insurance company, would have to bear the financial burden of
    any adverse judgment. The potential thus exists for
    unanticipated adverse judgments against us which may be
    substantial in amount and which could materially impair our cash
    reserves and financial condition.


 



    Our
    earnings could decline if we write-off intangible assets, such
    as goodwill.


 


    As a result of purchase accounting for our various acquisitions,
    our balance sheet at December 31, 2005 contains goodwill, net of
    accumulated amortization, of $685.2 million and other
    intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of
    $63.1 million (including indefinite lived intangibles of
    $18.5 million). In accordance with FAS 142, we
    evaluate on an ongoing basis, using the fair value of reporting
    units, whether facts and circumstances indicate any impairment
    of the value of indefinite-lived intangible assets such as
    goodwill. As circumstances after an acquisition can change, the
    value of these intangible assets may not be realized by us. If
    we were to determine that a significant impairment has occurred,
    we would be required to incur non-cash write-offs of the
    impaired portion of goodwill and other unamortized intangible
    assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    results of operations in the period in which the write-off
    occurs.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B