ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

 





When evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. These risk factors could materially adversely affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. We may also be materially harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of the following occurs, our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially negatively impacted. In addition, the trading prices of our securities and those of our subsidiaries could substantially decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the Annual Report, including, without limitation, the information set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In this section, when we state that a risk or uncertainty may, could or will have a “material adverse effect” on us or may, could or will “materially adversely affect” us, we mean that the risk or uncertainty may, could or will, as the case may be, have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition, prospects and/or the trading prices of our securities or those of our subsidiaries.

 

Sempra Energy’s cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries and the ability to utilize the cash flows from those subsidiaries.

 

Sempra Energy’s ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends almost entirely on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. In the long term, cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own expenditures, preferred stock dividends (if any), and long-term debt obligations. In addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that are not obligated to pay dividends and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including, without limitation, as a result of legislation, regulation, court order, contractual restrictions or in times of financial distress.

 

A significant portion of our worldwide cash reserves are generated by, and therefore held in, foreign jurisdictions. Some jurisdictions restrict the amount of cash that can be transferred to the United States or impose taxes on such transfers of cash, which reduces the cash available to us. In addition, we may be required to pay U.S. income taxes on earnings that are not repatriated if legislation being discussed on this matter is passed. To the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our United States operations, we may incur significant U.S. and foreign taxes to repatriate these funds.

 

Conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally may materially adversely affect us.

 

Our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations.

 

Limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, as well as our ability to meet contractual and other commitments. In difficult credit market environments, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support new business activities. This could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of servicing debt, both of which could significantly reduce our short-term and long-term profitability.

 

The availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. If the credit ratings of SoCalGas or SDG&E were to be reduced, their cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, and any reduction in Sempra Energy’s credit ratings could materially adversely affect the cash flows and results of operations of Sempra Energy and its regulated utility subsidiaries located outside of California. If the credit ratings of Sempra Energy or any of its subsidiaries were to decline, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase due to the additional risk of our debt and because certain counterparties may require collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions. Such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Sempra Energy has substantial investments in Mexico and South America which expose us to foreign currency, inflation, legal, tax, economic, geo-political and management oversight risk.

 

We have foreign operations in Mexico and South America. Our foreign operations pose complex management, foreign currency, legal, tax and economic risks, which we may not be able to fully mitigate with our actions. These risks differ from and potentially may be greater than those associated with our domestic businesses. All of our international businesses are sensitive to geo-political uncertainties, and our non-utility international businesses are sensitive to changes in the priorities and budgets of international customers, all of which may be driven by changes in threat environments and potentially volatile worldwide economic conditions, and various regional and local economic and political factors, risks and uncertainties, as well as U.S. foreign policy. Foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our primary currency exposures are to the Mexican, Peruvian and Chilean currencies. Our primary objective in reducing foreign currency risk is to preserve the economic value of our foreign investments and to reduce earnings volatility that would otherwise occur due to exchange rate fluctuations. We may attempt to offset material cross-currency transactions and earnings exposure through various means, including financial instruments and short-term investments. Because we generally do not hedge our net investments in foreign countries, we are susceptible to volatility in other comprehensive income caused by exchange rate fluctuations, primarily related to our South American subsidiaries, whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. We discuss our foreign currency exposure at our Mexican subsidiaries in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under “Results of Operations – Changes in Revenues, Costs and Earnings – Income Taxes – Foreign Currency Exchange Rate and Inflation Impact on Income Taxes and Related Economic Hedging Activity” and “Factors Influencing Future Performance – Market Risk – Foreign Currency Rate Risk” in the Annual Report.

 

 

Risks Related to All Sempra Energy Subsidiaries

 

Severe weather conditions, natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, major equipment failures or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects.

 

Like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by severe weather conditions, natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis and fires, catastrophic accidents, major equipment failures or acts of terrorism. Because we are in the business of using, storing, transporting and disposing of highly flammable and explosive materials, as well as radioactive materials, and operating highly energized equipment, the risks such incidents may pose to our facilities and infrastructure, as well as the risks to the surrounding communities, are substantially greater than the risks such incidents may pose to a typical business. The facilities and infrastructure that we own and in which we have interests that may be subject to such incidents include, but are not limited to:

 





§ natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines, storage and compression facilities

 

 


§ LNG terminals and storage

 

 

 



§ chartered LNG tankers

 

 


§ nuclear fuel and nuclear waste storage facilities

 

 



§ electric transmission and distribution

 

 


§ nuclear power facilities

 

 



§ power generation plants

 

 

  



Such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, property damage, injuries or loss of life, significant decreases in revenues and earnings, and/or significant additional costs to us. Any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects.

 

Depending on the nature and location of the facilities and infrastructure affected, any such incident also could cause catastrophic fires; natural gas odorant; propane or ethane leaks; radioactive releases; explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties; personal injuries, health impacts or fatalities; or present a nuisance to impacted communities. Any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. In some cases, we may be liable for damages even though we are not at fault, and in cases where the concept of inverse condemnation applies, we may be liable for damages without being found to be at fault or to have been negligent. Insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities due to the existence of limitations, exclusions, high deductibles, failure to comply with procedural requirements, and other factors, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects.

 

Severe weather conditions may also impact our businesses, including our international operations. On January 17, 2014, the Governor of California declared a state of emergency because of severe drought conditions in the state. The drought conditions in California and the western United States increase the risk of catastrophic wildfires in SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ service territories, which could place third party property and our electric and natural gas infrastructure in jeopardy. The drought conditions also reduce the amount of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities in the Northwest United States, which could adversely impact the availability of a reliable energy supply into the California electric grid managed by the California ISO. If alternate supplies of electric generation are not available to replace the lower level of power available from hydro-electric generation facilities, this could result in temporary power shortages in SDG&E’s service territory.

 

Another example of weather impacting operations is a strong El Niño weather pattern in the Pacific Ocean, which has caused severe rainstorms in Southern California during the winter in late 2015 and early 2016, and could continue beyond that timeframe. Significant rainstorms and associated high winds, such as those caused by a strong El Niño weather pattern, could damage our electric and natural gas infrastructure, resulting in increased expenses, including higher maintenance and repair costs, and interruptions in electricity and natural gas delivery services. As a result, these events can have significant financial consequences, including regulatory penalties and disallowances if the California Utilities or our utilities in Mexico, South America, Alabama and Mississippi encounter difficulties in restoring service to their customers on a timely basis. Further, the cost of storm restoration efforts may not be fully recoverable through the regulatory process. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.

 

Our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be materially adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation.

 

In recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on the federal, state and local levels. These changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. These changes are ongoing, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. Moreover, existing regulations, laws and tariffs may be revised or reinterpreted, and new regulations, laws and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. Special tariffs may also be imposed on components used in our businesses that could increase costs.

 

Our businesses are subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the regulations, laws and tariffs that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. Compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations in the U.S. and other countries in which we operate could materially adversely affect our tax expense and/or tax balances. Changes in regulations, laws and tariffs and how they are implemented and interpreted may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

Our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the California Utilities and other Sempra Energy businesses. These rules are commonly referred to as “affiliate rules,” which primarily impact commodity and commodity-related transactions. These businesses could be materially adversely affected by changes in these rules or to their interpretations, or by additional CPUC or FERC rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas to, or to trade with, the California Utilities and with each other. Affiliate rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the CPUC before entering into any such transactions with the California Utilities. Any such restrictions on or approval requirements for transactions among affiliates could materially adversely affect the LNG terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

Our businesses require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits, licenses or approvals could cause our sales to materially decline and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

All of our existing and planned development projects require multiple approvals. The acquisition, construction, ownership and operation of LNG terminals; natural gas pipelines and distribution and storage facilities; electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities; and propane and ethane systems require numerous permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates and other approvals from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. Once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed or modified in litigation. In addition, permits, licenses, franchise agreements, certificates, and other approvals may be modified, rescinded or fail to be extended by one or more of the governmental agencies and authorities that oversee our businesses. SoCalGas’ franchise agreements for the City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County, where the Aliso Canyon facility is located, are due to expire in 2016 and 2017, respectively. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or failure to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs. Further, accidents beyond our control may cause us to violate the terms of conditional use permits, causing delays in projects. Any such delay or failure to obtain or maintain necessary permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals could cause our sales to materially decline, and/or our costs to materially increase, and otherwise materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

Our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations.

 

Our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations and mandates relating to environmental protection, including, air quality, water quality and usage, wastewater discharge, solid waste management, hazardous waste disposal and remediation, conservation of natural resources, wetlands and wildlife, renewable energy resources, climate change and greenhouse gas, or GHG, emissions. We are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses, certificates and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. Additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant amounts on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. The California Utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs for projects are not recoverable in rates. In addition, we may be ultimately responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our LNG terminals, natural gas transmission, distribution and storage facilities, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities and other energy projects and properties, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In the case of our California and other regulated utilities, some of these costs may not be recoverable in rates. Our facilities, including those in our joint ventures, are subject to laws and regulations protecting migratory birds, which have recently been the subject of increased enforcement activity with respect to wind farms. Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits may subject our businesses to substantial penalties and fines and/or significant curtailments of our operations, which could materially adversely affect our cash flows and/or results of operations.

 

The scope and effect of new environmental laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. Increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial negative effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects. In particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed state, national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may materially limit or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations. The implementation of recent and proposed California and federal legislation and regulation may materially adversely affect our non-utility businesses by imposing, among other things, additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emissions credits. Similarly, our California and other regulated utilities may be materially adversely affected if these additional costs are not recoverable in rates. Even if recoverable, the effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth and may have a material adverse effect on the California Utilities’ cash flows. SDG&E may also be subject to significant penalties and fines if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met.

 

In addition, existing and future laws, orders and regulations regarding mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, methane or other emissions could result in requirements for additional monitoring, pollution monitoring and control equipment, safety practices or emission fees, taxes or penalties that could materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows. Moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may materially adversely affect our results of operations and/or cash flows.

 

We provide further discussion of these matters in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. 

 

Our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of litigation against us.

 

Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits and arbitration proceedings. We have spent, and continue to spend, substantial amounts of money and time defending these lawsuits and proceedings, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. We discuss pending proceedings in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Annual Report. The uncertainties inherent in lawsuits, arbitrations and other legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. In addition, juries have demonstrated a willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. Accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and may not be recoverable in whole or in part in rates from our customers, which in each case could materially adversely affect our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or financial condition.

 

We cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. In addition, for those contract positions that are hedged, our hedging procedures may not mitigate our risk as planned.

 

To reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and LNG, natural gas storage and pipeline capacity and electric generation capacity. As part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. We do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. To the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition.

 

In addition, possible changes in federal regulation of over-the-counter derivatives regulated by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission could impact the cost and effectiveness of our hedging programs, as we discuss in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Factors Influencing Future Performance – Other Sempra Energy Matters” in the Annual Report. Certain of the contracts we use for hedging purposes are subject to fair value accounting. Such accounting may result in gains or losses in earnings for those contracts. In certain cases, these gains or losses may not reflect the associated losses or gains of the underlying position being hedged.

 

Risk management procedures may not prevent losses.

 

Although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. Risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by our businesses or may not always work as planned. In addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. As a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition.

 

The operation of our facilities depends on good labor relations with our employees.

 

Several of our businesses have entered into and have in place collective bargaining agreements with different labor unions. Our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on a company-by-company basis. Any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. Labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows.

 

New business technologies implemented by us or developed by others present a risk for increased attacks on our information systems and the integrity of our energy grid and our natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure.

 

Cybersecurity and the protection of our operations and other activities, including our customer and employee information, are a priority at Sempra Energy, SDG&E and SoCalGas. In addition to general information and cyber risks that all Fortune 500 corporations face (e.g. malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, Smart Grid infrastructure, and natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure. Deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. While our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subjected to computer viruses or other malware, unauthorized access attempts, and cyber- or phishing-attacks, to date we have not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity. Addressing these risks is the subject of significant ongoing activities across Sempra Energy’s businesses, but we cannot ensure that a successful attack will not occur. An attack on our information systems, the integrity of the energy grid, our natural gas pipeline and storage infrastructure or one of our facilities, or unauthorized access to confidential customer information, could result in energy delivery service failures, financial loss, violations of privacy laws, customer dissatisfaction and litigation, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

In the ordinary course of business, Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries collect and retain sensitive information, including personal identification information about customers and employees, customer energy usage and other information. The theft, damage or improper disclosure of sensitive electronic data can subject us to penalties for violation of applicable privacy laws, subject us to claims from third parties, require compliance with notification and monitoring regulations, and harm our reputation.

 

Finally, as seen with recent cyber-attacks around the world, the goal of a cyber-attack may be primarily to inflict large-scale harm on a company and the places where it operates. Any such cyber-attack could cause widespread disruptions to our operating and administrative systems, including the destruction of critical information and programming, that could materially adversely affect our business operations and the integrity of the power grid, and/or release confidential information about our company and our customers, employees and other constituents.

 

Our businesses will need to continue to adapt to technological change which may cause us to incur significant expenditures to adapt to these changes and which efforts may not be successful.

 

We expect that emerging technologies may be superior to, or may not be compatible with, some of our existing technologies, investments and infrastructure, and may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive, or may result in the obsolescence of certain of our operating assets or the operating assets of our equity method investments. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability and our investment partners’ abilities to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. If we incur significant expenditures in adapting to technological changes, fail to adapt to significant technological changes, fail to obtain access to important new technologies, or fail to recover a significant portion of any remaining investment in obsolete assets, our businesses, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Examples of technological changes that could negatively impact our businesses include

 





§ California Utilities—Technologies that could change the utilization of natural gas distribution and electric generation, transmission and distribution assets including

 

 








□  


energy storage technology, and




 





□  


The expanded cost effective utilization of distributed generation (e.g., rooftop solar and community solar projects).




 






§ Sempra U.S. Gas & Power 

 

 














□  


At Sempra Renewables, technological advances in distributed and local power generation and energy storage could reduce the demand for large-scale renewable electricity generation. Sempra Renewables’ power sales customers’ ability to perform under long-term agreements could be impacted by changes in utility rate structures and advances in distributed and local power generation.




 





□  


At Sempra Natural Gas, technological advances in alternative fuels and other alternative energy sources could reduce the demand for natural gas.




 





□  


At our LNG businesses, technologies that lower global natural gas and LNG consumption would have the greatest impact on that business. These technologies include cost effective batteries for renewable electricity generation, economic improvements to gas-to-liquids conversion processes, and advances associated with seabed or Arctic gas hydrate exploitation.




 

 

Risks Related to the California Utilities

 

The California Utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may materially adversely affect us.

 

The CPUC regulates the California Utilities’ rates, except SDG&E’s electric transmission rates which are regulated by the FERC. The CPUC also regulates the California Utilities’:

 





§ conditions of service

 

 


§ rates of depreciation

 

 



§ capital structure

 

 


§ long-term resource procurement

 

 



§ rates of return

 

 


§ sales of securities

 

 




The CPUC conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, safety standards and practices, compliance with CPUC regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. These reviews and audits may result in disallowances, fines and penalties that could materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows. SoCalGas and SDG&E may be subject to penalties or fines related to their operation of natural gas pipelines and storage and, for SDG&E, electric operations, under regulations concerning natural gas pipeline safety and citation programs concerning both gas and electric safety, which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows. We discuss various CPUC proceedings relating to the California Utilities’ rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in Notes 13 and 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Annual Report.

 

The CPUC periodically approves the California Utilities’ rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs, including income taxes, and an authorized rate of return on investment. Delays by the CPUC on decisions authorizing recovery or authorizations for less than full recovery may adversely affect the working capital and financial condition of each of the California Utilities. If the California Utilities receive an adverse CPUC decision and/or actual capital expenditures and/or operating costs were to exceed the amounts approved by the CPUC, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Reductions in key benchmark interest rates may trigger automatic adjustment mechanisms which would reduce the California Utilities’ authorized rates of return, changes in which could materially adversely affect their results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects.

 

The CPUC applies performance-based measures and mechanisms to all California utilities. Under these, earnings potential over authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, and reductions in authorized base margins are tied to not achieving specific performance and operating goals. At both of the California Utilities, the areas that are currently eligible for performance mechanisms are operational activities designated by the CPUC and energy efficiency programs; at SDG&E, electric reliability performance; and, at SoCalGas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. Although the California Utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. Additionally, if the California Utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances, penalties and fines which could have a material adverse effect on their results of operations, financial condition and/or cash flows.

 

The FERC regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on investments in electric transmission assets, and other similar matters involving SDG&E.

 




The California Utilities may be materially adversely affected by new legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the CPUC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies. In addition, existing legislation or regulations may be revised or reinterpreted. New, revised or reinterpreted legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how the California Utilities operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur substantial additional expenses.

 

The construction and expansion of the California Utilities’ natural gas pipelines, SoCalGas’ storage facilities, and SDG&E’s electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits, licenses and other approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. If there are delays in obtaining these approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain these approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the California Utilities’ businesses, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects could be materially adversely affected. Coordinating these projects so that they are on time and within budget requires good execution from our employees and contractors, cooperation of third parties and the absence of litigation and regulatory delay. In the event that one or more of these major projects is delayed or experiences significant cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on the California Utilities. The California Utilities may invest a significant amount of money in a major capital project prior to receiving regulatory approval. If the project does not receive regulatory approval, if the regulatory approval is conditioned on major changes, or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in that project, which could materially adversely affect their financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects.

 

Our California Utilities are also affected by the activities of organizations such as The Utility Reform Network (TURN), Utility Consumers’ Action Network (UCAN), Sierra Club and other stakeholder and advocacy groups. Operations that may be influenced by these groups include

 





§  


the rates charged to our customers;




 





§  


our ability to site and construct new facilities;




 





§  


our ability to purchase or construct generating facilities;




 





§  


safety;




 





§  


the issuance of securities;




 





§  


accounting matters;




 





§  


transactions between affiliates;




 





§  


the installation of environmental emission controls equipment;




 





§  


our ability to decommission generating facilities and recover the remaining carrying value of such facilities and related costs;




 





§  


our ability to recover costs incurred in connection with nuclear decommissioning activities from trust funds established to pay for such costs;




 





§  


the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; limits on the amount of certain energy sources we can use, such as natural gas; and programs to encourage reductions in energy usage by customers; and




 





§  


the amount of costs associated with these operations that may be recovered from customers.




 

SoCalGas will incur significant costs and expenses to remediate the natural gas leak at its Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility and to mitigate local community and environmental impacts from the leak, some or a substantial portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance, and SoCalGas also may incur significant liabilities for fines, penalties, damages and greenhouse gas mitigation activities as a result of this incident, some or a significant portion of which may not be recoverable through insurance.

 

In October 2015, SoCalGas discovered a leak at one of its injection and withdrawal wells, SS25, at its Aliso Canyon natural gas storage facility, located in the northern part of the San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles County. The Aliso Canyon facility, which has been operated by SoCalGas since 1972, is situated in the Santa Susana Mountains. SS25 is more than one mile away from and 1,200 feet above the closest homes. It is one of more than 100 injection and withdrawal wells at the storage facility.

 




Stopping the Leak and Mitigation Efforts

 

SoCalGas worked closely with several of the world's leading experts to stop the leak, including planning and obtaining all necessary approvals for drilling relief wells. After discovering the leak, SoCalGas made seven unsuccessful attempts to plug SS25 by pumping fluids down the well shaft. In early December 2015, SoCalGas began drilling a relief well designed to stop the leak by plugging the well at its base. On February 11, 2016, SoCalGas began pumping heavy fluids through the relief well into SS25 near the base of the well, which controlled the flow of natural gas through the well and stopped the leak. In order to permanently seal the well and consistent with directives from the DOGGR and CPUC, SoCalGas then injected cement into SS25 at its base and on February 18, 2016, the DOGGR confirmed that the well was permanently sealed.

 

Pursuant to a stipulation and order and in response to claims made pursuant to lawsuits described below, SoCalGas has been providing temporary relocation support to residents in the nearby community who request it. In addition, SoCalGas has been providing air filtration and purification systems to those residents in the nearby community requesting them. As a result of receiving the confirmation from DOGGR that the SS25 well was permanently sealed, SoCalGas started winding down its temporary relocation support. Subject to certain exceptions, the period for temporary relocation support to residents who temporarily relocated to short-term housing, such as hotels, concluded on February 25, 2016. This deadline has been challenged and is subject to a recent court order extending such period for an additional 22 days for certain residents. SoCalGas has appealed this order extending the support period. Additionally, residents who have been placed in rental housing will have through the agreed term of their leases to return home. In addition, SoCalGas also intends to mitigate the GHG emissions from the actual natural gas released.

 

The total costs incurred to remediate and stop the leak and to mitigate environmental and local community impacts will be significant, and to the extent not covered by insurance, or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, such costs could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra Energy’s cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

 

Governmental Investigations and Civil and Criminal Litigation

 

Various governmental agencies, including the DOGGR, Los Angeles County Department of Public Health, SCAQMD, CARB, CPUC, EPA, Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office, and California Attorney General’s Office, are investigating this incident.  SoCalGas has been working in close cooperation with these agencies.

 

As of February 24, 2016, 83 lawsuits have been filed against SoCalGas, some of which have also named Sempra Energy, and, in derivative claims on behalf of Sempra Energy and SoCalGas, certain officers and directors of Sempra Energy and SoCalGas. These various lawsuits assert causes of action for negligence, strict liability, property damage, fraud, nuisance, trespass, and breach of fiduciary duties, among other things, and additional litigation may be filed against us in the future related to this incident. Many of these complaints seek class action status, compensatory and punitive damages, injunctive relief, and attorneys’ fees. The Los Angeles City Attorney and Los Angeles County Counsel have also filed a complaint on behalf of the people of the State of California against SoCalGas for public nuisance and violation of the California Unfair Competition Law. The California Attorney General, acting in her independent capacity and on behalf of the people of the State of California and the CARB, joined this lawsuit. The complaint, as amended to include the California Attorney General, adds allegations of violations of California Health and Safety Code sections 41700, prohibiting discharge of air contaminants that cause annoyance to the public, and 25510, requiring reporting of the release of hazardous material, as well as California Government Code section 12607 for equitable relief for the protection of natural resources. The complaint seeks an order for injunctive relief, to abate the public nuisance, and to impose civil penalties. The SCAQMD also filed a complaint against SoCalGas seeking civil penalties for alleged violations of several nuisance-related statutory provisions arising from the leak and delays in stopping the leak. That suit seeks up to $250,000 in civil penalties for each day the violations occurred.

 

On February 2, 2016, the Los Angeles District Attorney’s Office filed a misdemeanor criminal complaint against SoCalGas seeking penalties for alleged failure to provide timely notice of the leak pursuant to California Health and Safety Code section 25510(a), Los Angeles County Code section 12.56.030, and Title 19 California Code of Regulations section 2703(a), and for violating California Health and Safety Code section 41700 prohibiting discharge of air contaminants that cause annoyance to the public.

 

The costs of defending against these civil and criminal lawsuits and cooperating with these investigations, and any damages and civil and criminal fines and other penalties, if awarded or imposed, could be significant and to the extent not covered by insurance, or if there were to be significant delays in receiving insurance recoveries, could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra Energy’s cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

 

Governmental Orders, Additional Regulation and Reliability

 

On January 6, 2016, the Governor of the State of California issued an order (the Governor’s Order) proclaiming a state of emergency to exist in Los Angeles County due to the natural gas leak at the Aliso Canyon facility. The Governor’s Order implements various orders with respect to:

 





§  


stopping the leak;




 





§  


protecting public health and safety;




 





§  


ensuring accountability; and




 





§  


strengthening oversight.




 

We provide further detail regarding the Governor’s Order in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

 

On January 23, 2016, the Hearing Board of the SCAQMD ordered SoCalGas to, among other things, stop the leak, control the release of natural gas into the air, and conduct air monitoring and public health studies. We provide further detail regarding the SCAQMD’s order in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

 

On January 25, 2016, the DOGGR and CPUC selected Blade Energy Partners to conduct an independent analysis under their supervision and to be funded by SoCalGas to investigate the technical root cause of the Aliso Canyon leak. In addition, effective February 5, 2016, the DOGGR amended the California Code of Regulations to require all underground natural gas storage facility operators, including SoCalGas, to take further steps to help ensure the safety of their gas storage operations. Additional hearings in the state legislature as well as with various other regulatory agencies have been or are expected to be scheduled, additional legislation has been proposed in the state legislature, and additional laws, orders, rules and regulations may be adopted.

 

The costs to comply with the various laws, orders, rules and regulations arising out of this incident could be significant, and to the extent not covered by insurance or in customer rates, such costs could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra Energy’s cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

 

Natural gas withdrawn from storage is important for ensuring service reliability during peak demand periods, including heating needs in the winter, as well as peak electric generation needs in the summer. Aliso Canyon, with a storage capacity of 86 Bcf, is the largest storage facility and an important element of SoCalGas’ delivery system, serving millions of homes and businesses across Southern California. Aliso Canyon represents 63 percent of SoCalGas’ owned natural gas storage capacity. SoCalGas has not injected natural gas into Aliso Canyon since October 25, 2015, and in accordance with the Governor’s Order and subject to contrary CPUC reliability-based direction, SoCalGas will continue this moratorium on further injections until the completion of a review, utilizing independent experts, of the safety of each of the storage wells and air quality in the surrounding communities and an evaluation by an independent panel of scientific and medical experts on whether additional measures are needed to protect public health. We are also currently reviewing the recently released DOGGR safety review requirements associated with returning Aliso Canyon to an active injection/withdrawal status. If this facility were to be taken out of service for any meaningful period of time, it could result in an impairment of the Aliso Canyon facility and significantly higher than expected operating costs and/or additional capital expenditures and natural gas reliability and electric generation could be jeopardized. At December 31, 2015, the Aliso Canyon facility has a net book value of $243 million, excluding $162 million of construction work in progress for the project to construct a new compression station. Any significant impairment of this asset could have a material adverse effect on SoCalGas’ and Sempra Energy’s results of operations for the period in which it is recorded. Higher operating costs and additional capital expenditures incurred by SoCalGas may not be recoverable in customer rates, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.

 

Insurance

 

We have at least four kinds of insurance policies that provide in excess of $1 billion in insurance coverage. We have been communicating with our insurance carriers and intend to pursue the full extent of our insurance coverage. These policies are subject to various policy limits, exclusions and conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining insurance coverage for costs related to the leak under the applicable policies, and to the extent we are not successful, it could result in a material charge against earnings.

 

We discuss this matter further in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Capital Resources and Liquidity” and “Factors Influencing Future Performance” in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Annual Report.

 

Natural gas pipeline safety assessments may not be fully or adequately recovered in rates.

 

Pending the outcome of various regulatory agency evaluations of natural gas pipeline safety regulations, practices and procedures, Sempra Energy, including the California Utilities, may incur substantial incremental expense and capital investment associated with their natural gas pipeline operations and investments. The California Utilities filed a comprehensive plan with the CPUC to test or replace natural gas transmission pipelines that either have not been pressure tested or lack sufficient documentation of a pressure test, to enhance existing valve infrastructure and to retrofit pipelines to allow for the use of in-line inspection technology, referred to as SoCalGas’ and SDG&E’s Pipeline Safety Enhancement Plan (PSEP). The California Utilities’ total estimated cost for Phase I (the 10-year period from 2012 to 2022) of the two-phase PSEP was $2.1 billion ($1.6 billion for SoCalGas and $500 million for SDG&E). These cost estimates may continue to change over time to reflect the development of more detailed estimates, actual costs experienced as portions of the work are completed, and changes in scope.

 




In June 2014, the CPUC issued a final decision approving the utilities’ model for implementing PSEP, and established the criteria to determine the amounts related to PSEP that may be recovered from ratepayers and the processes for recovery of such amounts, including providing that such costs are subject to a reasonableness review. In October 2014, the California Utilities filed a petition for modification with the CPUC requesting authority to recover PSEP costs from customers, subject to refund pending the results of a reasonableness review by the CPUC. The request is pending at the CPUC.

 

The California Utilities filed an application to recover a portion of PSEP costs that they incurred prior to the CPUC’s June 2014 decision. Certain consumer advocacy groups recommended that the CPUC disallow a portion of these costs, and a CPUC decision in the proceeding remains pending. In the future, consumer advocacy groups may similarly recommend disallowances with respect to applications to recover PSEP costs.

 

In December 2015, in response to a request by intervenors for rehearing of the June 2014 PSEP decision, the CPUC adopted a decision finding shareholders responsible for the costs associated with pressure testing or replacing transmission pipelines installed between January 1, 1956 and July 1, 1961 for which the California Utilities do not have a record of a pressure test. The CPUC previously determined that because no pressure testing requirements existed prior to 1961, SoCalGas and SDG&E could recover the reasonable cost of pressure testing pipelines installed during that timeframe. SoCalGas and SDG&E filed an Application for Rehearing of the December 2015 PSEP decision in January 2016. The December 2015 decision also transfers consideration of SoCalGas’ and SDG&E’s pending petition for modification of the June 2014 PSEP decision, and any other interim rate recovery issues, to a pending PSEP Phase 2 application proceeding. In the Phase 2 PSEP proceeding, SoCalGas and SDG&E seek authority to proceed with initial planning and engineering work in order to develop detailed cost estimates for Phase 2 of PSEP.

 

If the CPUC were to decide as part of any future reasonableness review or rehearing application that rate recovery not be allowed for PSEP and other gas pipeline safety costs incurred by SoCalGas and SDG&E, it could materially adversely affect the respective company's cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.

 

We provide additional information in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

 

The California Utilities are subject to increasingly stringent safety standards and the potential for significant penalties if regulators deem either SDG&E or SoCalGas to be out of compliance.

 

In December 2011, the CPUC adopted a natural gas safety citation program whereby natural gas distribution companies can be cited by CPUC staff for violations of the CPUC’s safety standards. In September 2013, the CPUC’s Safety and Enforcement Division issued Standard Operating Procedures setting forth its principles and management process for the natural gas safety citation program.

 

In 2013, the California State Senate passed legislation Senate Bill (SB) 291 requiring the CPUC to develop and maintain a safety enforcement program that includes procedures for monitoring, data tracking and analysis, and investigations, as well as delegates citation authority to CPUC staff personnel under the direction of the CPUC Executive Director. This legislation required the CPUC to implement the enforcement program for natural gas safety by July 1, 2014 and for electric safety by January 1, 2015. In exercising this citation authority, the CPUC staff is to take into account voluntary reporting of potential violations, voluntary resolution efforts undertaken, prior history of violations, the gravity of the violation, and the degree of culpability.

 

In December 2014, the CPUC adopted an electric safety enforcement program whereby electric utilities may be cited by CPUC staff for violations of the CPUC’s safety requirements or applicable federal standards.

 

Under the CPUC’s gas and electric enforcement program, each day of an ongoing violation may be counted as an additional offense. The maximum penalty is $50,000 per offense. Citations under either program may be appealed to the CPUC. Penalties imposed under these programs can be significant, exceeding $1.5 billion in one instance. The CPUC is currently considering proposed refinements to the electric and gas safety enforcement programs, and a decision on these proposals remains pending.

 

As a result of the natural gas leak at the Aliso Canyon facility, the SCAQMD filed a complaint against SoCalGas seeking civil penalties for alleged violations of several nuisance-related statutory provisions arising from the leak and delays in stopping the leak.  The suit seeks up to $250,000 in civil penalties for each day the violations occurred.

 

If the CPUC or its staff determine that either of SDG&E’s or SoCalGas’ operations and practices are not in compliance with applicable safety standards and operating procedures, the corrective actions required to be in conformance and any penalties imposed could materially adversely affect that company’s cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.

 

Meaningful net energy metering, or NEM, reform is necessary to ensure that SDG&E is authorized to recover its costs in providing services to NEM customers while minimizing the cost shift (or subsidy) being borne by non-solar customers.

 

Due to current rate structures and state policies, customers who self-generate their own power using eligible renewable resources (primarily solar installations) currently do not pay their proportionate cost of maintaining and operating the electric transmission and distribution system, subject to certain limitations, while they still receive power from the system when their self-generation is inadequate to meet their electricity needs. The proportionate costs not paid by NEM customers are paid (i.e., subsidized) by consumers not participating in NEM. In addition, the continuing increase of self-generated solar, other forms of self-generation and other local off-the-grid sources of power adversely impacts the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system.

 

In July 2014, the CPUC initiated a rulemaking proceeding to develop a successor tariff to the state’s existing NEM program pursuant to the provisions of AB 327, which required the CPUC to establish a revised NEM tariff or similar program by December 31, 2015. The NEM program is an electric billing tariff mechanism designed to promote the installation of on-site renewable generation. It was originally established in California in 1995 with the adoption of SB 656, as codified in Section 2827 of the Public Utilities Code. Currently, customers who install and operate eligible renewable generation facilities of one megawatt or less may choose to participate in the NEM program. Under NEM, customer-generators receive a full retail rate for the energy they generate that is fed back to the utility’s power grid. This occurs during times when the customer’s generation exceeds their own energy usage. In addition, if a NEM customer generates any electricity over the annual measurement period that exceeds its annual consumption, they receive compensation at a rate equal to a wholesale energy price.

 

In August 2015, SDG&E proposed a successor NEM tariff that is intended to ensure that all NEM customers pay for the grid and other services they receive, supports the continued growth and adoption of distributed energy resources and helps California meet its energy policy goals. In January 2016, SDG&E, PG&E and Edison filed a joint recommendation to continue the pursuit of a fair and equitable rate structure for all customers. Subsequently in January 2016, the CPUC adopted a final decision in the case that makes modest changes now to require NEM customers to pay some costs that would otherwise be borne by non-NEM customers and moves new NEM customers to time-of-use rates. Together with tiered rate compression discussed under rate reform, the NEM successor tariff begins a process of reducing the cost burden on non-NEM customers. The decision also targets the inclusion of fixed charges for NEM customers beginning in 2019, which is expected to expand the proportion of costs shared by NEM customers.

 

Appropriate NEM reform is necessary to ensure that SDG&E is authorized to recover, from NEM customers, the costs incurred in providing grid and energy services, as well as mandated legislative and regulatory public policy programs. SDG&E believes this design would be preferable to recovering these costs from customers not participating in NEM. If NEM self-generating installations were to increase substantially between 2016 and 2019 when more significant reforms are to take effect, the rate structure adopted by the CPUC could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

The failure by the CPUC to continue reforms of SDG&E’s rate structure, including the implementation of a more significant fixed charge, could have a material adverse effect on its business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

The current electric rate structure in California is primarily based on consumption volume, which places an undue burden on residential customers with higher electric use while subsidizing lower use customers. As higher electric use residential customers switch to self-generation or obtain local off-the-grid sources of power, such as wind, the burden on the remaining higher electric use customers increases, which in turn encourages more self-generation, further increasing rate pressure on existing customers. In July 2015, the CPUC adopted a proposed decision that establishes comprehensive reform and a framework for rates that are more transparent, fair and sustainable. The adopted decision provides for a minimum monthly bill, fewer rate tiers and a gradual reduction in the differences between the tiered rates, directs the utilities to pursue expanded time of use rates, and implements a super-user electric surcharge in 2017 for usage that exceeds average customer usage by approximately 400 percent within each climate zone. The surcharge will increase over time, ultimately reaching a rate of more than double the first tier rate. The adopted decision will be implemented over a five year period from 2015 to 2020, and should result in significant relief for higher-use customers that do not exceed the super-user threshold and a rate structure that better aligns rates with actual costs to serve customers. The adopted decision also establishes a process for implementing a fixed charge in 2020, after the initial reforms are implemented. The establishment of a fixed charge may become more critical to help ensure rates are fair for all customers as distributed energy resources could generally reduce delivered volumes and increase fixed costs.

 

If the CPUC fails to continue to reform SDG&E’s rate structure by implementing a rate structure that maintains reasonable, cost-based electric rates that are competitive with alternative sources of power and adequate to maintain the reliability of the electric transmission and distribution system, such failure could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

Recovery of 2007 wildfire litigation costs requires future regulatory approval.

 

SDG&E is seeking to recover in rates its reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. Through December 31, 2015, SDG&E’s payments for claims settlements plus funds estimated to be required for settlement of outstanding claims and legal fees have exceeded its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. However, SDG&E has concluded that it is probable that it will be permitted to recover in rates a substantial portion of the reasonably incurred costs of resolving wildfire claims in excess of its liability insurance coverage and amounts recovered from third parties. At December 31, 2015, Sempra Energy’s and SDG&E’s Consolidated Balance Sheets included assets of $362 million in Other Regulatory Assets (long-term), of which $359 million is related to CPUC-regulated operations and $3 million is related to FERC-regulated operations, for costs incurred and the estimated resolution of pending claims.

 

In December 2012, the CPUC issued a final decision allowing SDG&E to maintain an authorized memorandum account, enabling SDG&E to file applications with the CPUC requesting recovery of amounts properly recorded in the memorandum account, subject to reasonableness review, at a later date. In September 2015, SDG&E filed an application with the CPUC requesting rate recovery of an estimated $379 million of such costs. SDG&E requested a CPUC decision by the end of 2016 and is proposing to recover the costs in rates over a six- to ten-year period. Intervening parties have recommended a phased approach, with Phase 1 addressing the reasonableness of SDG&E’s actions leading up to the fires and a CPUC decision in the second half of 2017. Phase 2 would address the reasonableness of settlements entered into by SDG&E, with a CPUC decision in the second half of 2018. Several parties have protested the application on the basis that SDG&E should be denied cost recovery. Recovery of these costs in rates will require regulatory approvals. If SDG&E had concluded that the recovery of regulatory assets related to CPUC-regulated operations was no longer probable or was less than currently estimated, at December 31, 2015, the resulting after-tax charge against earnings would have been up to approximately $213 million.

 

A failure to obtain substantial or full recovery of these costs from customers, or any negative assessment of the likelihood of recovery, would likely have a material adverse effect on Sempra Energy’s and SDG&E’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, if recovery is permitted, the collection process will extend over a number of years. We discuss how we assess the probability of recovery of our regulatory assets in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

 

SDG&E may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its partial ownership of a nuclear facility that is being decommissioned.

 

SDG&E has a 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS, a 2,150-MW nuclear generating facility near San Clemente, California, that is in the process of being decommissioned by Edison, the majority owner of SONGS. SONGS is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC and the CPUC. On June 6, 2013, Edison notified SDG&E that it had reached a decision to permanently retire SONGS and seek approval from the NRC to start the decommissioning activities for the entire facility. SDG&E, and each of the other owners, holds its undivided interest as a tenant in common in the property, and each owner is responsible for financing its share of expenses and capital expenditures, including decommissioning activities. Although the facility is being decommissioned, SDG&E’s ownership interest in SONGS continues to subject it to the risks of owning a partial interest in a nuclear generation facility, which include

 





§  


the potential that a natural disaster such as an earthquake or tsunami could cause a catastrophic failure of the safety systems in place that are designed to prevent the release of radioactive material. If such a failure were to occur, a substantial amount of radiation could be released and cause catastrophic harm to human health and the environment;




 





§  


the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the prior operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials;




 





§  


limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with operations and the decommissioning of the facility; and




 





§  


uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning the facility.




 

In addition, SDG&E maintains nuclear decommissioning trusts for the purpose of providing funds to decommission SONGS. Trust assets have been generally invested in equity and debt securities, which are subject to significant market fluctuations. A decline in the market value of trust assets or an adverse change in the law regarding funding requirements for decommissioning trusts could increase the funding requirements for these trusts, which in each case may not be fully recoverable in rates. Furthermore, CPUC approval is required in order to make withdrawals from these trusts. CPUC approvals may lag cash expenditures, and approval for certain expenditures may be denied by the CPUC altogether if the CPUC determines that the expenditures are unreasonable. Finally, decommissioning may be materially more expensive than we currently anticipate and therefore may exceed the amounts in the trust funds. Recovery for those overruns would require CPUC approval, which may not occur.

 

Interpretations of tax regulations may further delay access to nuclear decommissioning trust funds for reimbursement of spent nuclear fuel storage costs. Depending on how the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the Department of Treasury ultimately interpret IRS regulations addressing the taxation of a qualified nuclear decommissioning trust, SDG&E may be restricted from withdrawing amounts from its qualified decommissioning trusts to pay for independent spent fuel storage installations (ISFSI) where Edison and SDG&E are seeking, or plan to seek, recovery of the ISFSI costs in litigation against the DOE. Until the DOE litigation is resolved, SDG&E expects to pay for such ISFSI costs unless and until the IRS or the Department of Treasury issue guidance directed to either Edison or SDG&E or to all taxpayers that provides that such ISFSI costs can be funded by qualified nuclear decommissioning trusts. If Edison and SDG&E are unable to obtain timely reimbursement of such costs, such failure could delay decommissioning activities and negatively impact SDG&E's cash flows.

 

In November 2014, the CPUC approved the Amended Settlement Agreement that resolved the investigation into the steam-generator replacement project that ultimately led to the shut-down of SONGS. Petitions have been filed to reopen the settlement, as we discuss in Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

 

The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s and Sempra Energy’s businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

A proposal has been made regarding certain intra-rate case income tax benefits that, if adopted by the CPUC, could have a material adverse effect on SDG&E’s, SoCalGas’ and Sempra Energy’s business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations, and/or prospects.

 

As we discuss in Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report, in September 2015, the California Utilities filed settlement agreements with the CPUC that resolve all material matters related to the 2016 General Rate Case proceeding, except for the revenue requirement implications of certain income tax benefits associated with flow-through repair allowance tax deductions. The settlement agreements exclude a proposal for both SDG&E and SoCalGas regarding certain intra-rate case income tax benefits. The proposal recommends that the CPUC adjust SoCalGas’ rate base by $92 million and SDG&E’s rate base by $93 million, and additionally reduce both utilities’ revenue requirements by amounts currently being tracked in income tax memorandum accounts for the year 2015. We believe the proposed treatment would violate and contradict long standing rate making and income tax policy, and would represent a material departure from historical practice. At December 31, 2015, the pretax balances tracked in these memorandum accounts total $74 million for SoCalGas and $39 million for SDG&E. If this proposal is adopted, the outcome would reduce the revenue requirement amounts agreed to in SDG&E’s and SoCalGas’ settlement agreements. SDG&E and SoCalGas do not expect that the prospective reduction to rate base described above would result in an immediate earnings impact if this proposal is adopted. However, if this proposal is adopted, the amounts currently being tracked in the tax memorandum accounts for 2015 could result in a material charge against earnings when the draft decision is received.

 

 

Risks Related to our Sempra International and Sempra U.S. Gas & Power Businesses

 

Our businesses are exposed to market risks, including fluctuations in commodity prices, and our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects may be materially adversely affected by these risks. Energy-related commodity prices impact LNG liquefaction and regasification, the transport and storage of natural gas, and power generation from renewable and conventional sources, among other businesses that we operate and invest in.

 

We buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for LNG terminals or power plants to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. Our revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for natural gas, LNG, electricity or other commodities that we buy change in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided adequately through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions.

 

Unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including:

 





§  


weather conditions




 





§  


seasonality




 





§  


changes in supply and demand




 





§  


transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies




 





§  


availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources




 





§  


commodity production levels




 





§  


actions by oil and natural gas producing nations or organizations affecting the global supply of crude oil and natural gas




 





§  


federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation




 





§  


natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events




 





§  


expropriation of assets by foreign countries




 

The FERC has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. The FERC may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. Any such action by the FERC may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

When our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, they are exposed to inflationary pressures such as rising commodity prices, and interest rate risks.

 

Sempra Mexico, Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. However, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be materially adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials, equipment and commodities, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. We may try to mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, providing for cost escalation, providing for direct pass-through of operating costs or entering into hedges. However, these measures, if implemented, may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. The failure to fully or substantially offset these increases could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and/or results of operations.

 

Business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled or be completed within budget, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

The acquisition, development, construction and expansion of LNG terminals, natural gas, propane and ethane pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built.

 

Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things:

 





§  


negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) agreements




 





§  


negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements




 





§  


timely receipt of required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights of way and maintenance or extension of these authorizations




 





§  


timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction




 





§  


obtaining adequate and reasonably priced financing for the project




 

Successful completion of a particular project may be materially adversely affected by, among other factors:

 





§  


unforeseen engineering problems




 





§  


construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls




 





§  


work stoppages




 





§  


failure to obtain, maintain or extend required governmental permits, licenses, authorizations, and rights of way




 





§  


equipment unavailability or delay and cost increases




 





§  


adverse weather conditions




 





§  


environmental and geological conditions




 





§  


litigation




 





§  


unsettled property rights




 

If we are unable to complete a development project or if we have substantial delays or cost overruns, this could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

The operation of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, or natural gas regasification, liquefaction and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, environmental contamination and operating performance below expected levels. In addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, liquefaction, storage, transmission and distribution systems. The occurrence of any of these events could lead to our facilities being idled for an extended period of time or our facilities operating well below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. Such occurrences could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

The design, development and construction of the Cameron LNG liquefaction facility involves numerous risks and uncertainties.

 

With respect to our project to add LNG export capability at the Cameron LNG facility, the Cameron LNG Holdings, LLC joint venture (Cameron LNG JV) has begun building an LNG export facility consisting of three liquefaction trains designed to a total nameplate capacity of 13.9 million tonnes per annum (Mtpa) of LNG with an expected export capability of 12 Mtpa of LNG, or approximately 1.7 Bcf per day. The anticipated incremental investment in the three-train liquefaction project is estimated to be approximately $7 billion, including the cost of the lump-sum, turnkey construction contract, development engineering costs and permitting costs, but excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. The total cost of the facility, including the cost of our original regasification facility contributed to the joint venture plus interest during construction, financing costs and required reserves, is estimated to be approximately $10 billion. The majority of the incremental investment in the joint venture will be project-financed and the balance provided by the project partners. Any failure by the project partners to make their required investments on a timely basis could result in project delays and could materially adversely affect the development of the project. In addition, Sempra Energy has entered into completion guarantees under which it has guaranteed a maximum $3.7 billion of principal amount of the project financing for the project. These guarantees terminate upon Cameron LNG JV’s achieving “financial completion” of the initial three-train liquefaction project, including all three trains achieving commercial operation and meeting certain operational performance tests. If, due to the joint venture’s failure to satisfy the financial completion criteria, we are required to repay some or all of the $3.7 billion principal amount of project debt under our completion guarantees, any such repayments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects.

 

Large-scale construction projects like the design, development and construction of the Cameron LNG liquefaction facility involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including among others, the potential for unforeseen engineering problems, substantial construction delays and increased costs. Cameron LNG JV has a turnkey EPC contract with a joint venture contractor comprised of subsidiaries of Chicago Bridge & Iron Company N.V. and Chiyoda Corporation, who are jointly and severally liable for performance under the contract. If the contractor becomes unwilling or unable to perform according to the terms and timetable of the EPC contract, Cameron LNG JV would be required to engage a substitute contractor, which would result in project delays and increased costs, which could be significant. The construction of this facility requires a large and specialized work force, necessary equipment and materials, and sophisticated engineering. There can be no assurance that Cameron LNG JV’s contractor will not encounter delays due to disruptions in obtaining the necessary equipment and materials, inability to field the necessary workforce, or engineering issues that were not contemplated. As construction progresses, Cameron LNG JV may decide or be forced to submit change orders to the contractor that could result in longer construction periods and higher construction costs or both. In addition, weather conditions, new regulation, labor disputes, breakdown or failure of equipment, and litigation, such as the lawsuit filed by the Sierra Club and Gulf Restoration Network challenging the June 19, 2014 FERC order that approved the construction of the Cameron LNG liquefaction project, could substantially delay the project. As we do not control Cameron LNG JV, we are dependent on reaching a consensus with one or more of our joint venture partners to resolve a variety of issues that could transpire. The inability to timely resolve issues, including construction issues, could cause substantial delays to the completion of this project. A substantial delay could result in cost overruns, substantially postpone the earnings we anticipate deriving from this facility, and require additional cash investments by us and our joint venture partners. The anticipated cost of this project is based on a number of assumptions that may prove incorrect, and the ultimate cost could significantly exceed the current estimate of approximately $7 billion of incremental investment, excluding capitalized interest and other financing costs. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and/or prospects.

 

We face many challenges to develop and complete our contemplated LNG export facilities.

 

In addition to the three-train Cameron LNG liquefaction facility described above, we are looking at several other LNG export terminal development opportunities, including a greenfield project in Port Arthur, Texas, a brownfield project at our existing Energía Costa Azul regasification facility in Baja California, Mexico and an expansion of up to two additional liquefaction trains to the Cameron liquefaction facility. Each of these contemplated projects faces numerous risks and must overcome significant hurdles before we can proceed with construction. Common to all of these projects is the risk that an extended decline in current and forward projections of crude oil prices could reduce the demand for natural gas in some sectors and cause a corresponding reduction in projected global demand for LNG. This could result in increased competition among those working on projects in an environment of declining LNG demand, such as the Sempra Energy-sponsored export initiatives. Such reduction in natural gas demand could also occur from higher penetration of coal in new power generation, which could also lead to increased competition among the LNG suppliers for the declining LNG demand. Oil prices at certain moderate levels could also make LNG projects in other parts of the world still feasible and competitive with LNG projects from North America, thus increasing supply and the competition for the available LNG demand. A decline in natural gas prices outside the United States (which in many foreign countries are based on the price of crude oil) may also materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on Henry Hub pricing).

 

Sempra Natural Gas has entered into a project development agreement for the joint development of the proposed Port Arthur liquefaction project with an affiliate of Woodside Petroleum Ltd. The agreement specifies how the parties will share costs, and establishes a framework for the parties to work jointly on permitting, design, engineering, and commercial and marketing activities associated with developing the Port Arthur liquefaction project. Also, Sempra Natural Gas, IEnova and a subsidiary of PEMEX entered into a memorandum of understanding to collaborate in and share the costs of the potential development of a liquefaction project at IEnova’s Energía Costa Azul facility in Mexico. Any decisions by the parties to proceed with binding agreements with respect to the formation of these potential joint ventures and the potential development of these projects will require, among other things, completion of project assessments and achieving other necessary internal and external approvals of each such party. In addition, all of our proposed projects are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the receipt of a number of permits and approvals; finding suitable partners and customers; obtaining financing; negotiating and completing suitable commercial agreements, including joint venture agreements, tolling capacity agreements or natural gas supply and LNG sales agreements and construction contracts; and reaching a final investment decision.

 

Expansion of the Cameron LNG liquefaction facility beyond the first three trains is subject to certain restrictions and conditions under the joint venture project financing agreements, including among others, timing restrictions on expansion of the project unless appropriate prior consent is obtained from the project lenders. Furthermore, there are a number of potential new projects under construction or in the process of development by various project developers in North America, in addition to ours, and given the projected global demand for LNG, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. With respect to our Port Arthur, Texas project, this is a greenfield site, and therefore it may not have the advantages often associated with brownfield sites. The Energía Costa Azul facility in Mexico is subject to on-going land and permitting disputes that could make project financing difficult as well as finding suitable partners and customers. In addition, while we have completed the regulatory process for an LNG export facility in the U.S., the regulatory process in Mexico and the overlay of U.S. regulations for natural gas exports to an LNG export facility in Mexico are not well developed. There can be no assurance that such a facility could be permitted and constructed without facing significant legal challenges and uncertainties, which in turn could make project financing, as well as finding suitable partners and customers, difficult. Finally, Energía Costa Azul has profitable long-term regasification contracts for 100 percent of the facility, making the decision to pursue a new liquefaction facility dependent in part on whether the investment in a new liquefaction facility would, over the long term, be more beneficial than continuing to supply regasification services under our existing contracts.

 

There can be no assurance that our contemplated LNG export facilities will be completed, and our inability to complete one or more of our contemplated LNG export facilities could have a material adverse effect on our future cash flows, results of operations and prospects.

 

We discuss these projects further in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Factors Influencing Future Performance” in the Annual Report.

 

Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could reduce or eliminate LNG export opportunities and demand.

 

Several states have adopted or are considering adopting regulations to impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. In addition to state laws, some local municipalities have adopted or are considering adopting land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, that may restrict the performance of or prohibit the well drilling in general and/or hydraulic fracturing in particular. Hydraulic fracturing is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions, but federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain hydraulic fracturing activities. For example, the EPA issued permitting guidance in February 2014 under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) for hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels. In April 2015, the EPA issued a proposed rule that would prevent the discharge of hydraulic fracturing wastewater into publicly owned treatment works, and in March 2015, the Bureau of Land Management of the U.S. Department of the Interior adopted rules imposing new requirements for hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands, including new requirements relating to public disclosure of hydraulic fracturing chemicals, as well as wellbore integrity and handling of flowback water. In addition, the U.S. Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. There are also certain governmental reviews that have been conducted or are underway on deep shale and other formation completion and production practices, including hydraulic fracturing. Depending on the outcome of these studies, federal and state legislatures and agencies may seek to further regulate or even ban such activities. Certain environmental and other groups have also suggested that additional federal, state and local laws and regulations may be needed to more closely regulate the hydraulic fracturing process.

 

We cannot predict whether additional federal, state or local laws or regulations applicable to hydraulic fracturing will be enacted in the future and, if so, what actions any such laws or regulations would require or prohibit. If additional levels of regulation or permitting requirements were imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations, natural gas prices in North America could rise, which in turn could materially adversely affect the relative pricing advantage that has existed in recent years in favor of domestic natural gas prices (based on Henry Hub pricing). Increased regulation or difficulty in permitting of hydraulic fracturing, and any corresponding increase in domestic natural gas prices, could materially adversely affect demand for LNG exports and our ability to develop commercially viable LNG export facilities beyond the three train Cameron LNG facility currently under construction.

 

Increased competition could materially adversely affect us.

 

The markets in which we operate are characterized by numerous strong and capable competitors, many of whom may have extensive and diversified developmental and/or operating experience (including both domestic and international) and financial resources similar to or greater than ours. Further, in recent years, the natural gas pipeline, storage and LNG market segments have been characterized by strong and increasing competition both with respect to winning new development projects and acquiring existing assets. In Mexico, despite the commissioning of many new energy infrastructure projects by the Federal Electricity Commission (Comisión Federal de Electricidad, or CFE) and other governmental agencies in connection with energy reforms, competition for recent pipeline projects has been intense with numerous bidders competing aggressively for these projects. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in bidding for new development opportunities in the U.S., Mexico or South America. In addition, as noted above, there are a number of potential new LNG liquefaction projects under construction or in the process of being developed by various project developers in North America, including our contemplated new projects, and given the projected global demand for LNG, the vast majority of these projects likely will not be completed. Finally, our natural gas storage assets in the Gulf Coast region compete with other facilities for storage customers as existing contracts expire and for anchor customers that could support development of new capacity. These competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects.

 




We may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into, extend or replace expiring long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competition. Such long-term contracts, once entered into, increase our credit risk if our counterparties fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis due to bankruptcy, insolvency, or otherwise.

 

The Energía Costa Azul LNG facility and the Cameron LNG facility (within the Cameron LNG JV) have entered into long-term capacity agreements with a limited number of counterparties at each facility. Under these agreements, customers pay capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customers’ LNG. We also may enter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase LNG to be received, stored and regasified for sale to other parties. The long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying LNG supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. If the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the LNG facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects.

 

At Cameron LNG JV, although the Cameron LNG terminal is partially contracted for regasification, there is a termination agreement in place that will result in the termination of this agreement at the point in the construction of the new liquefaction facilities where piping tie-ins to the existing regasification terminal become necessary, which we expect to occur during the first quarter of 2017.

 

Sempra Mexico’s and Sempra Natural Gas’ ability to enter into or replace existing long-term firm capacity agreements for their natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on demand for and supply of LNG and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include our LNG facilities. A significant sustained decrease in demand for and supply of LNG and/or natural gas from such customers could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects.

 

Sempra Natural Gas owns a 25-percent interest in Rockies Express Pipeline LLC (Rockies Express), a partnership that operates a natural gas pipeline, the Rockies Express pipeline (REX). All of Rockies Express’ original capacity sales on REX provided for west-to-east service. Sempra Natural Gas has an agreement for such capacity on REX through November 2019. The capacity costs are offset by revenues from releases of the capacity contracted to third parties. Certain capacity release commitments totaling $22 million concluded during 2013. Contracting activity related to that capacity has not been sufficient to offset all of our capacity payments to Rockies Express. Rockies Express has been developing east-to-west service offerings on REX. In 2013, FERC issued a decision ruling that east-to-west service offerings within a single REX zone would not result in potential rate reductions under “most favored nation” provisions in the original customers’ west-to-east contracts, and certain west-to-east customers sought rehearing of that decision. In 2014 and 2015, Rockies Express reached settlements with these west-to-east customers, and the customers’ requests for rehearing have been withdrawn. In addition, several customers are facing liquidity issues which may result in bankruptcy. There can be no assurance that if those customers enter bankruptcy, that we will be able to find new customers to replace that capacity.

 

Our natural gas storage assets include operational and development assets at Bay Gas Storage Company, Ltd. (Bay Gas) in Alabama and Mississippi Hub, LLC (Mississippi Hub) in Mississippi, as well as our development project, LA Storage, LLC (LA Storage) in Louisiana. LA Storage could be positioned to support LNG export from the Cameron LNG JV terminal and other liquefaction projects, if anticipated cash flows support further investment. However, changes in the U.S. natural gas market could also lead to diminished natural gas storage values. Historically, the value of natural gas storage services has positively correlated with the difference between the seasonal prices of natural gas, among other factors. In general, over the past several years, seasonal differences in natural gas prices have declined, which have contributed to lower prices for storage services. As our legacy (higher rate) sales contracts mature at our Bay Gas and Mississippi Hub facilities, replacement sales contract rates have been and could continue to be lower than has historically been the case. Lower sales revenues may not be offset by cost reductions, which could lead to depressed asset values. In addition, our LA Storage development project may be unable to either attract cash flow commitments sufficient to support further investment or extend its FERC construction permit beyond its current expiration date of June 2017. The LA Storage project also includes an existing 23.3-mile pipeline header system, the LA Storage Pipeline, that is not contracted. Market conditions could result in the need to perform recovery testing of our recorded asset values. In the event such values are not recoverable, we would consider the fair value of these assets relative to their recorded value. To the extent the recorded (carrying) value is in excess of the fair value, we would record a noncash impairment charge. The recorded value of our long-lived natural gas storage assets at December 31, 2015 was $1.5 billion. A significant impairment charge related to our natural gas storage assets would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which it is recorded.

 

The electric generation and wholesale power sales industries are highly competitive. As more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. Without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility, and we may be unable to sell the power that Sempra Renewables’ and Sempra Mexico’s facilities are capable of producing or to sell it at favorable prices, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects.

 

We provide information about these matters in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Annual Report.

 




Our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performing in accordance with their agreements. If they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and business disruptions and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could materially adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

Our businesses, and the businesses that we invest in, are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements or arrangements will not perform their obligations in accordance with such agreements or arrangements. Should they fail to perform, we may be required to enter into alternative arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. In such an event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. In addition, many such agreements are important for the conduct and growth of our businesses. The failure of any of the parties to perform in accordance with these agreements could materially adversely affect our businesses, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects. Finally, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. While we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to collect amounts owed to us.

 

Sempra Mexico’s and Sempra Natural Gas’ obligations and those of their suppliers for LNG supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for “force majeure” events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements, which in either event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and/or prospects.

 

Our businesses are subject to various legal actions challenging our property rights and permits.

 

We are engaged in disputes regarding our title to the properties adjacent to and properties where our LNG terminal in Mexico is located, as we discuss in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. In the event that we are unable to defend and retain title to the properties on which our LNG terminal is located, we could lose our rights to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, which could result in breaches of one or more permits or contracts that we have entered into with respect to such terminal. In addition, our ability to convert the LNG terminal into an export facility may be hindered by these disputes, and they could make project financing such a facility and finding suitable partners and customers very difficult. If we are unable to occupy and use such properties and the related terminal, it could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or prospects.

 

We rely on transportation assets and services, much of which we do not own or control, to deliver electricity and natural gas.

 

We depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to:

 





§  


deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets,




 





§  


supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and




 





§  


provide retail energy services to customers.




 

Sempra Mexico and Sempra Natural Gas also depend on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. Sempra Mexico and Sempra Natural Gas also rely on specialized ships to transport LNG to their facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. Sempra Renewables, Sempra South American Utilities and Sempra Mexico rely on transmission lines to sell electricity to their customers. If transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our commodities, electricity and other services to some or all of our customers. As a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our customers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative electricity, natural gas supplies and LNG at then-current spot market rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

Our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges.

 

In Mexico, we own or have interests in natural gas, propane and ethane distribution, storage and transportation projects, electricity generation, distribution and transmission facilities, and an LNG terminal. In Peru and Chile, we own or have interests in electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and operations. Developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal, regulatory and financial risks that vary by country, including:

 





§  


changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and U.S. laws and regulations, in each case, that are related to foreign operations




 





§  


governance by and decisions of local regulatory bodies, including setting of rates and tariffs that may be earned by our businesses




 





§  


high rates of inflation




 





§  


volatility in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and currencies of the countries in which we operate, as we discuss below




 





§  


foreign cash balances that may be unavailable to fund U.S. operations, or available only at unfavorable U.S. and/or foreign tax rates upon repatriation of such amounts or changes in tax law




 





§  


changes in government policies or personnel




 





§  


trade restrictions




 





§  


limitations on U.S. company ownership in foreign countries




 





§  


permitting and regulatory compliance




 





§  


changes in labor supply and labor relations




 





§  


adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits and approvals, difficulty in enforcing contractual and property rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in Mexico and other foreign jurisdictions




 





§  


expropriation of assets




 





§  


adverse changes in the stability of the governments in the countries in which we operate




 





§  


general political, social, economic and business conditions




 





§  


compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws




 





§  


valuation of goodwill




 

Our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. These risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates and devaluations of foreign currencies. In such cases, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar against a local currency could materially reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. We may or may not choose to hedge these risks, and any hedges entered into may or may not be effective. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in significantly increased taxes in foreign countries and materially adversely affect our cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects.

 

We discuss litigation related to Sempra Mexico’s Energía Costa Azul LNG terminal and other international energy projects in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in the Annual Report.

 

 

Other Risks

 

Sempra Energy has substantial investments in and obligations arising from businesses that it does not control or manage or in which it shares control.

 

Sempra Energy makes investments in entities that we do not control or manage or in which we share control. As described above, SDG&E holds a 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS, which is in the process of being decommissioned by Edison, its majority owner. Sempra Natural Gas accounts for its investment in the Cameron LNG JV under the equity method, which investment is $983 million at December 31, 2015. Also, Sempra Natural Gas owns a 25-percent interest in Rockies Express, a joint venture that operates the REX natural gas pipeline. Our investment in Rockies Express was $477 million at December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2015, Sempra Renewables had investments totaling $855 million in several joint ventures to develop and operate renewable generation facilities. Sempra Mexico has a 50-percent interest in a joint venture with PEMEX that operates several natural gas pipelines and propane and ethane systems in northern Mexico. Sempra Mexico also has a 50-percent interest in a renewables wind project in Baja California. At December 31, 2015, these investments totaled $519 million. Sempra Energy has an investment balance of $67 million at December 31, 2015 that reflects remaining distributions expected to be received from the RBS Sempra Commodities LLP (RBS Sempra Commodities) partnership as it is dissolved. The timing and amount of distributions may be impacted by the matters we discuss related to RBS Sempra Commodities in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. The failure to collect all or a substantial portion of our remaining investment in the RBS Sempra Commodities partnership could have a corresponding impact on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.

 

Sempra Renewables and Sempra Natural Gas have provided guarantees related to joint venture financing agreements, and Sempra South American Utilities and Sempra Mexico have provided loans to joint ventures in which they have investments and to other affiliates. We discuss the guarantees in Note 4, and affiliate loans in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

 

We have limited influence over these ventures and other businesses in which we do not have a controlling interest. In addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects. We discuss our investments further in Notes 3, 4 and 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report.

 

Market performance or changes in other assumptions could require Sempra Energy, SDG&E and/or SoCalGas to make significant unplanned contributions to their pension and other postretirement benefit plans.

 

Sempra Energy, SDG&E and SoCalGas provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits to eligible employees and retirees. A decline in the market value of plan assets may increase the funding requirements for these plans. In addition, the cost of providing pension and other postretirement benefits is also affected by other factors, including the assumed rate of return on plan assets, employee demographics, discount rates used in determining future benefit obligations, rates of increase in health care costs, levels of assumed interest rates and future governmental regulation. An adverse change in any of these factors could cause a material increase in our funding obligations which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or prospects.

 


 






 ITEM 1B