ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS When evaluating our company and its subsidiaries, you should consider carefully the following risk factors and all other information contained in this report. These risk factors could affect our actual results and cause such results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Other risks and uncertainties, in addition to those that are described below, may also impair our business operations. If any
 of the following occurs, our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be seriously harmed. In addition, the trading price of our securities could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other detailed information concerning our company set forth in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Annual Report.  Sempra Energy's cash flows, ability to pay dividends and ability to meet its debt obligations largely depend on the performance of its subsidiaries. Sempra Energy's ability to pay dividends and meet its debt obligations depends on cash flows from its subsidiaries and, in the short term, its ability to raise capital from external sources. In the long term,
 cash flows from the subsidiaries depend on their ability to generate operating cash flows in excess of their own capital expenditures and long-term debt obligations. In addition, the subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and could be precluded from making such distributions under certain circumstances, including as a result of legislation or regulation or in times of financial distress.  Our businesses may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and refund outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. The credit markets and financial services industry have recently experienced a period 
of extreme world-wide turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of many financial institutions and by extraordinary levels of government intervention and proposals for further intervention and additional regulation. Limitations on the availability of credit and increases in interest rates or credit spreads may adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In difficult credit markets, we may find it necessary to fund our operations and capital expenditures at a higher cost or we may be unable to raise as much funding as we need to support business activities. This could cause us to reduce capital expenditures and could increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our short-term and long-term profitability. The availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. If the credit ratings of SoCalGas or SDG&E were to be
 reduced, their businesses could be adversely affected and any reduction in Sempra Energy's ratings could adversely affect its non-utility subsidiaries. Risks Related to All Sempra Energy Subsidiaries Our businesses are subject to complex government regulations and may be adversely affected by changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or implementation. In recent years, the regulatory environment that applies to the electric power and natural gas industries has undergone significant changes, on both federal and state levels. These changes have affected the nature of these industries and the manner in which their participants conduct their businesses. These changes are ongoing, and we cannot pre
dict the future course of changes in this regulatory environment or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our businesses. Moreover, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to us and our facilities. Our business is subject to increasingly complex accounting and tax requirements, and the laws and regulations that affect us may change in response to economic or political conditions. Compliance with these requirements could increase our operating costs, and new tax legislation, regulations or other interpretations could materially affect our tax expense. Changes in laws and regulations may have a detrimental effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.   Our operations are subject to rules relating to transactions among the Sempra Utilities and other Sempra Energy operations. These rules are commonly re
ferred to as the Affiliate Transaction Rules. These businesses could be adversely affected by changes in these rules or by additional CPUC or FERC rules that further restrict our ability to sell electricity or natural gas, or to trade with the Sempra Utilities and with each other. Affiliate Transaction Rules also could require us to obtain prior approval from the CPUC before entering into any such transactions with the Sempra Utilities. Any such restrictions or approval requirements could adversely affect the LNG receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines, electric generation facilities, or other operations of our subsidiaries. Our businesses require numerous permits and other governmental approvals from various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies; any failure to obtain or maintain required permits or approvals could cause our sales to decline and/or our costs to increase. <font si
ze=2>All of our existing and planned development projects require multiple permits. The acquisition, ownership and operation of LNG receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, and electric generation and transmission facilities require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies. Once received, approvals may be subject to litigation, and projects may be delayed or approvals reversed in litigation. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, or we may be forced to incur additional costs.   Our businesses have significant environmental compliance costs, and future environmental compliance costs could adversely affect our profitability. <p style="MARGIN:
0in 0in 6pt">We are subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign statutes, rules and regulations relating to environmental protection, including, in particular, climate change and GHG emissions. We are required to obtain numerous governmental permits, licenses and other approvals to construct and operate our businesses. Additionally, to comply with these legal requirements, we must spend significant sums on environmental monitoring, pollution control equipment, mitigation costs and emissions fees. In addition, we are generally responsible for all on-site liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our electric generation facilities and other energy projects, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may be subject to penalties, fines and/or curtailments of our operations.  The scope and effect of new environmental 
laws and regulations, including their effects on our current operations and future expansions, are difficult to predict. Increasing international, national, regional and state-level concerns as well as new or proposed legislation and regulation may have substantial effects on our operations, operating costs, and the scope and economics of proposed expansion. In particular, state-level laws and regulations, as well as proposed national and international legislation and regulation relating to the control and reduction of GHG emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride), may limit or otherwise adversely affect our operations. The implementation of recent and proposed California and federal legislation and regulation may adversely affect our unregulated businesses by imposing additional costs associated with emission limits, controls and the possible requirement of carbon taxes or the purchase of emis
sions credits. Similarly, the Sempra Utilities may be affected if costs are not recoverable in rates. The effects of existing and proposed greenhouse gas emission reduction standards may cause rates to increase to levels that substantially reduce customer demand and growth. In addition, SDG&E may be subject to penalties if certain mandated renewable energy goals are not met.  In addition, existing and future laws and regulation on mercury, nitrogen and sulfur oxides, particulates, or other emissions could result in requirements for additional pollution control equipment or emission fees and taxes that could adversely affect us. Moreover, existing rules and regulations may be interpreted or revised in ways that may adversely affect us and our facilities and operations.  We provide further discussion of these matters in Notes 14, 15 and 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in th
e Annual Report.  Natural disasters, catastrophic accidents or acts of terrorism could materially adversely affect our business, earnings and cash flows. Like other major industrial facilities, ours may be damaged by natural disasters, catastrophic accidents, or acts of terrorism. Such facilities include    §generation plants <td width=295 style="BORDER-RIGHT:0px; PADDING-RIGHT:1.45pt; BORDER-TOP:0px; PADDING-LEFT:0.7pt; PADDING-BOTTOM:0in; BORDER
- -LEFT:0px; WIDTH:221.4pt; PADDING-TOP:0in; BORDER-BOTTOM:0px" valign=top> §chartered LNG tankers   §electric transmission and distribution  §natural gas pipelines and storage  <td w
idth=265 style="BORDER-RIGHT:0px; PADDING-RIGHT:1.45pt; BORDER-TOP:0px; PADDING-LEFT:0.7pt; PADDING-BOTTOM:0in; BORDER-LEFT:0px; WIDTH:198.9pt; PADDING-TOP:0in; BORDER-BOTTOM:0px" valign=top> §LNG receipt terminals and storage    Such incidents could result in severe business disruptions, significant decreases in revenues, and/or significant additional costs to us. Any such incident could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, earnings and cash flows.  <font si
ze=2>Depending on the nature and location of the facilities affected, any such incident also could cause fires, leaks, explosions, spills or other significant damage to natural resources or property belonging to third parties, or cause personal injuries or fatalities. Any of these consequences could lead to significant claims against us. Insurance coverage may significantly increase in cost or become unavailable for certain of these risks, and any insurance proceeds we receive may be insufficient to cover our losses or liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition, earnings and cash flows. Our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows may be materially adversely affected by the outcome of pending litigation against us. Sempra Energy and its subsidiaries are defendants in numerous lawsuits. We have spent, and continue to spend, substan
tial amounts defending these lawsuits, and in related investigations and regulatory proceedings. In particular, SDG&E is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of San Diego County wildfires in 2007. We discuss this and other litigation in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. The uncertainties inherent in legal proceedings make it difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty the costs and effects of resolving these matters. In addition, California juries have demonstrated an increasing willingness to grant large awards, including punitive damages, in personal injury, product liability, property damage and other claims. Accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from insured or reserved amounts and could materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition.  We discuss these proceedings in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Annual Report.  Risks Related to the Sempra Utilities The Sempra Utilities are subject to extensive regulation by state, federal and local legislative and regulatory authorities, which may adversely affect the operations, performance and growth of their businesses. The CPUC regulates the Sempra Utilities' rates, except SDG&E's electric transmission rates which are regulated by the FERC. The CPUC also regulates the Sempra Utilities':    <td width=229 style="BORDER-RIGHT:0px; PADDING-RIG
HT:0.7pt; BORDER-TOP:0px; PADDING-LEFT:0.7pt; PADDING-BOTTOM:0in; BORDER-LEFT:0px; WIDTH:171.9pt; PADDING-TOP:0in; BORDER-BOTTOM:0px; HEIGHT:15.4pt" valign=top> §conditions of service  §rates of depreciation   <font style="FONT-SIZE:10pt; FONT-FAMILY
:Wingdings">§capital structure  §long-term resource procurement   §rates of return <td width=264 style="BORDER-RIGHT:0px; PADDING-RIGHT:0.7pt; BORDER-TOP:0px; PADDING-LEFT:0.7pt; PADDING-BOTTOM:0in; BORDER-LEFT:0px; WIDTH:2.75in; PA
DDING-TOP:0in; BORDER-BOTTOM:0px; HEIGHT:15.4pt" valign=top> §sales of securities The CPUC conducts various reviews and audits of utility performance, compliance with CPUC regulations and standards, affiliate relationships and other matters. These reviews and audits may result in disallowances and penalties that could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. We discuss various CPUC proceedings relating to the Sempra Utilities' rates, costs, incentive mechanisms, and performance-based regulation in Notes 14 and 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Annual Report.  The Sempra Utilities may spend funds related to a major capital project prior to 
receiving regulatory approval. If the project does not receive regulatory approval or if management decides not to proceed with the project, they may not be able to recover all amounts spent for that project, which could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. The CPUC periodically approves the Sempra Utilities' rates based on authorized capital expenditures, operating costs and an authorized rate of return on investment. If actual capital expenditures and operating costs were to exceed the amount approved by the CPUC, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. The CPUC applies performance-based measures and incentive mechanisms to all California utilities. Under these, earnings potential above authorized base margins is tied to achieving or exceeding specific performance and operating goals, rather than relying solely on expanding utility plant (rate base) to increase earnings. At the Semp
ra Utilities, the areas that are eligible for incentives are operational activities such as employee safety, energy efficiency programs and, at SoCalGas, natural gas procurement and unbundled natural gas storage and system operator hub services. Although the Sempra Utilities have received incentive awards in the past, there can be no assurance that they will receive awards in the future, or that any future awards earned would be in amounts comparable to prior periods. Additionally, if the Sempra Utilities fail to achieve certain minimum performance levels established under such mechanisms, they may be assessed financial disallowances or penalties which could negatively affect earnings and cash flows.  The FERC regulates electric transmission rates, the transmission and wholesale sales of electricity in interstate commerce, transmission access, the rates of return on transmission investments, and other similar matters involving SDG&E.  <
/p> The Sempra Utilities may be adversely affected by new regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations of the CPUC, the FERC or other regulatory bodies. New legislation, regulations, decisions, orders or interpretations could change how they operate, could affect their ability to recover various costs through rates or adjustment mechanisms, or could require them to incur additional expenses. The construction and expansion of the Sempra Utilities' natural gas pipelines, SoCalGas' storage facilities, and SDG&E's electric transmission and distribution facilities require numerous permits and approvals from federal, state and local governmental agencies. If there are delays in obtaining required approvals, or failure to obtain or maintain required approvals, or to comply with applicable laws or regulations, the Sempra Utilities' business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition cou
ld be materially adversely affected. Recovery of 2007 Wildfire Litigation Costs SDG&E is subject to numerous lawsuits arising out of the San Diego County wildfires in 2007. It expects that substantially all reasonably incurred costs of resolving 2007 wildfire claims that exceed its liability insurance coverage and any amounts recovered from other potentially responsible parties will be recovered from utility customers. However, recovery from customers will require future regulatory actions, and a failure to obtain recovery, or any negative assessment of the likelihood of recovery, would likely have a material adverse effect on Sempra Energy’s and SDG&E’s cash flows and results of operations. In addition, SDG&E's cash flows may be adversely affected due to the timing differences between resolution of claims and the recoveries from other potentially responsible parties and utility
 customers, which may extend over a number of years. SDG&E may incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of its ownership of nuclear facilities. SDG&E has a 20-percent ownership interest in SONGS, a 2,150-MW nuclear generating facility near San Clemente, California, operated by Southern California Edison Company. The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. SDG&E's ownership interest in SONGS subjects it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include §the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials; <p styl
e="MARGIN:0in 1in 3pt 9.35pt">§limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and §uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of replacing steam generators or other equipment, and the decommissioning of nuclear plants. Risks Related to our Generation, LNG, Pipelines & Storage and Other Businesses Our businesses are exposed to market risk, and our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity may be adversely affected by fluctu
ations in commodity market prices that are beyond our control. Sempra Generation generates electricity that it sells under long-term contracts and into the spot market or other competitive markets. It purchases natural gas to fuel its power plants and may also purchase electricity in the open market to satisfy its contractual obligations. As part of its risk management strategy, Sempra Generation may hedge a substantial portion of its electricity sales and natural gas purchases to manage its portfolio.  We buy energy-related commodities from time to time, for power plants or for LNG receipt terminals to satisfy contractual obligations with customers, in regional markets and other competitive markets in which we compete. Our revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected if the prevailing market prices for electricity, natural gas, LNG or other commodities that we buy change
 in a direction or manner not anticipated and for which we had not provided through purchase or sale commitments or other hedging transactions. Unanticipated changes in market prices for energy-related commodities result from multiple factors, including:  §weather conditions  §seasonality  §changes in supply and demand  §transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies  <font style=FONT-FAMILY:Wing
dings>§availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources  §commodity production levels  §actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries with respect to the supply of crude oil  §federal, state and foreign energy and environmental regulation and legislation  §natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events  §</fon
t>expropriation of assets by foreign countries  The FERC has jurisdiction over wholesale power and transmission rates, independent system operators, and other entities that control transmission facilities or that administer wholesale power sales in some of the markets in which we operate. The FERC may impose additional price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms, or terminate existing price limitations from time to time. Any such action by the FERC may result in prices for electricity changing in an unanticipated direction or manner and, as a result, may have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.  When our businesses enter into fixed-price long-term contracts to provide services or commodities, we are exposed to inflation and interest rate risks. Sempra Generation, Sempra Pipelines & Storag
e and Sempra LNG generally endeavor to secure long-term contracts with customers for services and commodities to optimize the use of their facilities, reduce volatility in earnings, and support the construction of new infrastructure. However, if these contracts are at fixed prices, the profitability of the contract may be adversely affected by inflationary pressures, including rising operational costs, costs of labor, materials and equipment, and rising interest rates that affect financing costs. To the extent possible, we may mitigate these risks by using variable pricing tied to market indices, anticipating an escalation in costs when bidding on projects, or providing for cost escalation. However, these measures may not ensure that the increase in revenues they provide will fully offset increases in operating expenses and/or financing costs. Business development activities may not be successful and projects under construction may not commence oper
ation as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. The acquisition, development, construction and expansion of LNG receiving terminals, natural gas pipelines and storage facilities, electric generation facilities, and other energy infrastructure projects involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, fuel supply, resource exploration, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built.  Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things:  §negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements  <p style="MARGIN:
0in 1in 3pt 9.35pt">§negotiation of supply and natural gas sales agreements or firm capacity service agreements  §receipt of required governmental permits  §timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction  Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by:  §unforeseen engineering problems  §construction delays and contractor performance
 shortfalls  §work stoppages  §equipment supply  §adverse weather conditions  §environmental and geological conditions  §other factors  If we are unable to complete the development of a facility, we typically will not be able to recover our investment in the project.  The operati
on of existing and future facilities also involves many risks, including the breakdown or failure of generation or regasification and storage facilities or other equipment or processes, labor disputes, fuel interruption, and operating performance below expected levels. In addition, weather-related incidents and other natural disasters can disrupt generation, regasification, storage and transmission systems. The occurrence of any of these events could lead to operating facilities below expected capacity levels, which may result in lost revenues or increased expenses, including higher maintenance costs and penalties. Such occurrences could adversely affect our business, cash flows and results of operations. We may elect not to, or may not be able to, enter into long-term supply and sales agreements or long-term firm capacity agreements for our projects, which would subject our revenues to increased volatility and our businesses to increased competitio
n. The electric generation and wholesale power sales industries have become highly competitive. As more plants are built and competitive pressures increase, wholesale electricity prices may become more volatile. Without the benefit of long-term power sales agreements, our revenues may be subject to increased price volatility. The 10-year power sales agreement between Sempra Generation and the DWR, which comprised 8 percent of our revenues in 2010, 9 percent in 2009 and 10 percent in 2008, expires in September 2011. As a result, we may be unable to sell the power generated by Sempra Generation's facilities or operate those facilities profitably.   Sempra LNG utilizes its receipt terminals by entering into long-term capacity agreements. Under these agreements, customers pay Sempra LNG capacity reservation and usage fees to receive, store and regasify the customer's LNG. Sempra LNG also may e
nter into short-term and/or long-term supply agreements to purchase LNG to be received, stored and regasified at its terminals for sale to other parties. The long-term supply agreement contracts are expected to reduce our exposure to changes in natural gas prices through corresponding natural gas sales agreements or by tying LNG supply prices to prevailing natural gas market price indices. However, if Sempra LNG is unable to obtain sufficient long-term agreements or if the counterparties, customers or suppliers to one or more of the key agreements for the LNG facilities were to fail to perform or become unable to meet their contractual obligations on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, reduced availability of LNG to the United States and Mexico due to inadequate supplies, increased demand and higher prices in other countries, abundant domestic supplies of natural gas and/or delays in the development o
f new liquefaction capacity could affect the timing of expansion of our existing LNG facilities. These conditions also are likely to delay attainment of full-capacity utilization at our facilities. Our potential LNG suppliers also may be subject to international political and economic pressures and risks, which may also affect the supply of LNG.  Sempra Pipelines & Storage's natural gas pipeline operations are dependent on supplies of LNG and/or natural gas from their transportation customers, which may include Sempra LNG facilities. We provide information about these matters in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Our businesses depend on counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers performin
g in accordance with their agreements. If they fail to perform, we could incur substantial expenses and be exposed to commodity price risk and volatility, which could adversely affect our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. We are exposed to the risk that counterparties, business partners, customers, and suppliers that owe money or commodities as a result of market transactions or other long-term agreements will not perform their obligations under such agreements. Should they fail to perform, we may be required to acquire alternative hedging arrangements or to honor the underlying commitment at then-current market prices. In such event, we may incur additional losses to the extent of amounts already paid to such counterparties or suppliers. In addition, we often extend credit to counterparties and customers. While we perform significant credit analyses prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we may not be able to co
llect amounts owed to us.   Sempra LNG's obligations and those of its suppliers for LNG supplies are contractually subject to (1) suspension or termination for "force majeure" events beyond the control of the parties; and (2) substantial limitations of remedies for other failures to perform, including limitations on damages to amounts that could be substantially less than those necessary to provide full recovery of costs for breach of the agreements. We rely on transportation assets and services that we do not own or control to deliver electricity and natural gas. We depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to: §de
liver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets,  §supply natural gas to our electric generation facilities, and  §provide retail energy services to customers.  Sempra Pipelines & Storage also depends on natural gas pipelines to interconnect with their ultimate source or customers of the commodities they are transporting. Sempra LNG also relies on specialized ships to transport LNG to its facilities and on natural gas pipelines to transport natural gas for customers of the facilities. If transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver our products and services may be hindered. As a result, we may be responsible for damages incurred by our custom
ers, such as the additional cost of acquiring alternative natural gas supplies at then-current spot market rates. We cannot and do not attempt to fully hedge our assets or contract positions against changes in commodity prices. Our hedging procedures may not work as planned. To reduce financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, we may enter into contracts to hedge our known or anticipated purchase and sale commitments, inventories of natural gas and LNG, electric generation capacity, and natural gas storage and pipeline capacity. As part of this strategy, we may use forward contracts, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and options. We do not hedge the entire exposure to market price volatility of our assets or our contract positions, and the coverage will vary over time. To the extent we have unhedged positions, or if our
 hedging strategies do not work as planned, fluctuating commodity prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Risk management procedures may not prevent losses. Although we have in place risk management systems and control systems that use advanced methodologies to quantify and manage risk, these systems may not always prevent material losses. Risk management procedures may not always be followed as required by the companies or may not always work as planned. In addition, daily value-at-risk and loss limits are based on historic price movements. If prices significantly or persistently deviate from historic prices, the limits may not protect us from significant losses. As a result of these and other factors, there is no assurance that our risk management procedures will prevent losses that would ne
gatively affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our international businesses are exposed to different local, regulatory and business risks and challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We have interests in electricity generation and transmission, natural gas distribution and transportation, and LNG terminal projects in Mexico and electricity and natural gas distribution businesses in Argentina, Chile and Peru, and we intend to significantly increase our interests in South America, as we discuss in Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Developing infrastructure projects, owning energy assets, and operating businesses in foreign jurisdictions subject us to significant political, legal and financial
 risks that vary by country, including: §changes in foreign laws and regulations, including tax and environmental laws and regulations, and U.S. laws and regulations related to foreign operations §high rates of inflation §changes in government policies or personnel §trade restrictions §limitations on U.S. company ownership in foreign countries <p style="MARGIN:0in 1in 3pt 9.
35pt">§permitting and regulatory compliance §changes in labor supply and labor relations §adverse rulings by foreign courts or tribunals, challenges to permits, difficulty in enforcing contractual rights, and unsettled property rights and titles in Mexico and other foreign jurisdictions §general political, economic and business conditions   Our international businesses also are subject to foreign currency risks. These risks arise from both volatility in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates 
and devaluations of foreign currencies. In such cases, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar against a local currency could reduce the amount of cash and income received from those foreign subsidiaries. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and inflation rates may result in increased taxes in foreign countries. While Sempra Pipelines & Storage believes that it has contracts and other measures in place to mitigate its most significant foreign currency exchange risks, some exposure is not fully mitigated. We discuss litigation related to Sempra LNG's Energía Costa Azul LNG receipt terminal in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Annual Report. Other Risks Sempra Energy has substantial inve
stments and other obligations in businesses that it does not control or manage. Sempra Energy is a partner with RBS in RBS Sempra Commodities, a commodities-marketing firm, which divested substantially all of its businesses and assets in 2010 and early 2011, as we discuss above under "Description of Business – Sempra Commodities." Our remaining investment in the partnership is $787 million at December 31, 2010. The realization of this investment, which is the undistributed portion of our share of the proceeds from the divestitures and related cash distributions, depends on the collection of accounts receivable by the partnership, as well as net margin that is expected to be collected as customers are transferred to the new owner of certain businesses sold. We have guaranteed various obligations of businesses previously owned and operated by RBS Sempra Commodities, as we discuss in Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
in the Annual Report. We also own a 25-percent interest in Rockies Express Pipeline LLC (Rockies Express), a joint venture which completed construction in 2009 of a 1,679-mile natural gas pipeline at an estimated cost of approximately $6.8 billion. Our investment in Rockies Express is $854 million at December 31, 2010. Rockies Express is controlled by Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, which holds a 50-percent interest. We also have smaller investments in other entities that we do not control or manage, or in which we share control, and we continue to make such investments. We may not control and have limited influence over these businesses and their management. In addition to the other risks inherent in these businesses, if their management were to fail to perform adequately or the other investors in the businesses were unable or otherwise failed to perform their obligations to provide capital and credit 
support for these businesses, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.     ITEM 1B