Item 1A.     RISK FACTORSThe risks described in this Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that are not presently known or that we presently deem to be immaterial also could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business, and prospects.As one of the largest lenders in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic U.S. and a provider of financial products and services to consumers and businesses across the U.S., our financial results have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by general economic conditions. A deterioration of economic conditions or of the financial markets may materially adversely affect our lending and other businesses and our financial results and condition.We generate revenue from the interest and fees we charge on the loans and other products and services we provide, and a substantial amount of our revenue and earnings come from the net interest income and fee income that we earn from our consumer, wholesale, and mortgage banking businesses. These businesses have been, and may continue to be, materially affected by the state of the U.S. economy, particularly unemployment levels and home prices. Although the U.S. economy has continued to gradually improve from severely depressed levels during the last economic recession, economic growth and improvement in the housing market have been modest. In addition, financial uncertainty stemming from low oil and commodity prices, a strong U.S. dollar, U.S. debt and budget matters, geopolitical turmoil, deceleration of economic activity in other large countries, as well as the uncertainty surrounding financial regulatory reform, have impacted and may continue to impact the continuing global economic recovery. A prolonged period of slow growth in the U.S. economy or any deterioration in general economic conditions and/or the financial markets resulting from the above matters, or any other events or factors that may disrupt or dampen the global economic recovery, could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition.If unemployment levels increase or if home prices decrease we would expect to incur higher than normal charge-offs and provision expense from increases in our allowance for credit losses. These conditions may adversely affect not only consumer loan performance but also C&I and CRE loans, especially for those businesses that rely on the health of industries or properties that may experience deteriorating economic conditions. The ability of these borrowers to repay their loans may be reduced, causing us to incur significantly higher credit losses. In addition, current economic conditions have made it more challenging for us to increase our consumer and commercial loan portfolios by making loans to creditworthy borrowers at attractive yields. If economic conditions do not continue to improve or if the economy worsens and unemployment rises, then a decrease in consumer and business confidence and spending are likely, which may reduce demand for our credit products, which would adversely affect our interest and fee income and our earnings.A deterioration in business and economic conditions that erodes consumer and investor confidence levels, and/or increased volatility of financial markets, also could adversely  affect financial results for our fee-based businesses, including our wealth management, investment advisory, trading, and investment banking businesses. We earn fee income from managing assets for others and providing brokerage and other investment advisory and wealth management services. Because investment management fees are often based on the value of assets under management, a decrease in the market prices of those assets could reduce our fee income. Changes in stock market prices could affect the trading activity of investors, reducing commissions and other fees we earn from our brokerage business. Poor economic conditions and volatile or unstable financial markets also can adversely affect our trading and debt and equity underwriting and advisory businesses.Legislation and regulation, including the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as future legislation and/or regulation, could require us to change certain of our business practices, reduce our revenue, impose additional costs on us, or otherwise adversely affect our business operations and/or competitive position.We are actively regulated by federal and state agencies. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation.Regulation of the financial services industry has increased significantly. The regulation is focused on the protection of depositors, FDIC funds, consumers, and the banking system as a whole, rather than our shareholders, and may be adverse to the interests of our shareholders. We are subject to significant regulation under state and federal laws in the U.S., including new legislation and rule-making promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act. Increased supervision, reporting, and significant new and proposed legislation and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions outside of the U.S. where we conduct business may affect the manner in which we do business and the products and services that we provide, and may affect or restrict our ability to compete in our current businesses or our ability to enter into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit our revenue in businesses or impose additional fees, assessments or taxes on us, and adversely affect our business operations or have other negative consequences.A significant number of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act still require extensive rulemaking and interpretation by regulatory authorities. In several cases, authorities have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates. Accordingly, in many respects the ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and its effects on the U.S. financial system and SunTrust will not be known for an extended period of time. Nevertheless, the Dodd-Frank Act, including current and future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, could result in a loss of revenue, require us to change certain of our business practices, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, increase our capital and liquidity requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on 7us, and otherwise adversely affect our business operations and have other negative consequences. For example, on October 1, 2011, final rules issued by the Federal Reserve became effective which limit the fees we can charge for debit card interchange, and this has reduced our noninterest income. In addition, several recent legislative and regulatory initiatives were adopted that have had an impact on our businesses and financial results, including FRB and CFPB amendments to Regulation E which, among other things, affect the way we may charge overdraft fees and our provision of electronic funds transfer services for U.S. consumers to recipients in other countries. We also implemented policy changes to help customers limit overdraft and returned item fees. These reduced our fee revenue.The Dodd-Frank Act also established the CFPB, which has authority to regulate, among other things, unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices. The CFPB has been active in rule-making and enforcement activity, and already has imposed substantial fines on other financial institutions. Among its other consumer-protective initiatives, the CFPB has placed significant emphasis on consumer complaint management. The CFPB has established a public consumer complaint database to encourage consumers to file complaints they may have against financial institutions, which the CFPB may use to focus enforcement actions and for rule-making. In addition, each financial institution is expected to maintain an effective consumer complaint management program. Further, in 2013 the CFPB released final regulations under Title XIV of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2013 further regulating the origination of mortgages and addressing "ability to repay" standards, loan officer compensation, appraisal disclosures, HOEPA triggers and other matters. The "ability to repay" rule, in particular, has the potential to significantly affect our business since it provides a borrower with a defense to foreclosure unless the lender established the borrower's ability to repay or that the loan was a "qualified mortgage" or met other exceptions to the rule. While qualified mortgages may provide certain safe harbors, the extent of these safe harbors remains unclear. Our business strategy, product offerings, and profitability may be affected by CFPB rules and may change as these and other rules are developed, become effective, and are interpreted by the regulators and courts.Regulators recently published revised guidance which could affect the origination and distribution of leveraged loans. While we believe we comply with relevant regulatory requirements, regulators may limit the ability of banks to originate leveraged loans, such as by limiting the maximum leverage of issuers of such loans, or may limit the extent to which banks may hold leveraged loans in their loan portfolios. If regulators tighten leverage limits, structural elements including covenants or maturities, such actions could result in lower loan origination volumes and fees. If regulators impose portfolio limits, this could reduce the liquidity of leveraged loans, and may indirectly affect their value.A portion of our revenue comes from fees we charge clients for certain services that we provide to them, including fees for having insufficient funds in their accounts. The CFPB may issue rules that limit the fees we may charge, such as by setting a dollar or number limit to the amount of such fees. Other regulatory changes may cause us to change the order in which we process  checks. Any of these changes might adversely affect fee revenue.Additionally, legislation or regulation may impose unexpected or unintended consequences, the impact of which is difficult to predict. For example, some commentators have expressed a view that proposed liquidity requirements, which will require certain banks to hold more liquid securities, may have the unintended consequence of reducing the size of the trading markets for such securities, and thereby reduce liquidity in those markets.Any other future legislation and/or regulation, if adopted, also could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, income, and/or competitive position and may have other negative consequences. For additional information, see the “Government Supervision and Regulation” section in this Form 10-K.We are subject to changing capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these new guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected.We, together with our banking subsidiary and broker-dealer subsidiaries, must meet certain capital and liquidity guidelines, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. New regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may limit or otherwise restrict how we utilize our capital, including common stock dividends and stock repurchases, and may require us to increase our capital and/or liquidity. Any requirement that we increase our regulatory capital, replace certain capital instruments which presently qualify as Tier 1 capital, or increase regulatory capital ratios or liquidity, could require us to liquidate assets or otherwise change our business and/or investment plans, which may adversely affect our financial results. Issuing additional common stock would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders. Specifically, our primary regulatory, along with other banking regulators, have implemented new and more stringent capital and liquidity measurements that will impact us.In July 2013, the Federal Reserve issued final capital rules that replace existing capital adequacy rules and implement Basel III and certain requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act. These rules will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and our banking subsidiary than under the prior rules. Under the final rules, our capital requirements will increase and the risk-weighting of many of our assets will change. Further, in September, 2014, the Federal Reserve adopted a final LCR rule under the Basel III framework that requires banks and bank holding companies to measure their liquidity against specific liquidity tests. The tests, which include an LCR, are designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains a level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets greater than or equal to the entity's expected net cash outflow for a specified time horizon under an acute liquidity stress scenario. Also part of the LCR rule, an NSFR was designed to promote more medium and long-term funding based on the liquidity characteristics of the assets and activities of banking entities over a one-year time horizon. Under the LCR rule our holdings of high-quality liquid assets will increase and the composition of our balance sheet will change.Under the final capital rules, Tier 1 capital will consist of CET 1 and additional non-common Tier 1 capital, with Tier 1 8capital plus Tier 2 capital constituting total risk-based capital. The required minimum capital requirements will be greater than currently required and include a CET 1 ratio of 4.5%; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6%, and a total capital ratio of 8%. In addition, a Tier 1 leverage ratio to average consolidated assets of 4% will apply. Further, we will be required to maintain a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of additional CET 1 after a transition period to phase-in the buffer. If we do not maintain the capital conservation buffer, then our ability to pay dividends and discretionary bonuses and to make share repurchases will be restricted. A transition period applies to certain capital elements and risk weighted assets. One of the more significant transitions required by the final rules relates to the risk weighting applied to MSRs, which will impact the CET1 ratio during the transition period when compared to the currently disclosed CET1 ratio that is calculated on a fully phased-in basis. Specifically, the fully phased-in risk weight of MSRs is 250%, while the risk weight to be applied during the transition period is 100%. The transition period is applicable from January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017. We have estimated our regulatory capital under Basel III under the final rules and we provide that estimate, on a fully phased-in basis, and a reconcilement to U.S. GAAP in Table 34, “Selected Financial Data and Reconcilement of Non-U.S. GAAP Measures” in Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K. Note that this estimate is consistent with our interpretation of the final rule and ambiguities in the final rule or other interpretations of the final rule could result in a larger measure of RWAs and consequently a lower CET 1 ratio. Loss of customer deposits and market illiquidity could increase our funding costs.We rely heavily on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans we make. We compete with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If our competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, our funding costs may increase, either because we raise our rates to avoid losing deposits or because we lose deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs reduce our net interest margin and net interest income.We rely on the mortgage secondary market and GSEs for some of our liquidity.We sell most of the mortgage loans we originate to reduce our credit risk and to provide funding for additional loans. We rely on GSEs to purchase loans that meet their conforming loan requirements. We rely on other capital markets investors to purchase non-conforming loans (i.e., loans that do not meet GSE requirements). Since 2007, investor demand for nonconforming loans has fallen sharply, increasing credit spreads and reducing the liquidity of those loans. In response to the reduced liquidity in the capital markets, we may retain more nonconforming loans, negatively impacting reserves, or we may originate less, negatively impacting revenue. When we retain a loan not only do we keep the credit risk of the loan but we also do not receive any sale proceeds that could be used to generate new loans. A persistent lack of liquidity could limit our ability to fund and thus originate new mortgage loans, reducing the fees we earn  from originating and servicing loans. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that GSEs will not materially limit their purchases of conforming loans due to capital constraints or change their criteria for conforming loans (e.g., maximum loan amount or borrower eligibility). As previously noted, proposals have been presented to reform the housing finance market in the U.S., including the role of the GSEs in the housing finance market. The extent and timing of any such regulatory reform regarding the housing finance market and the GSEs, as well as any effect on our business and financial results, are uncertain.Our framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating risk and loss to us.Our risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss to us. We have established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze the types of risk to which we are subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and reputational risk, among others. However, as with any risk management framework, there are inherent limitations to our risk management strategies as there may exist, or develop in the future, risks that we have not appropriately anticipated or identified. The recent financial and credit crisis and resulting regulatory reform highlighted both the importance and some of the limitations of managing unanticipated risks. If our risk management framework proves ineffective, we could suffer unexpected losses and could be materially adversely affected.We are subject to credit risk.When we lend money, commit to lend money or enter into a letter of credit or other contract with a counterparty, we incur credit risk, which is the risk of losses if our borrowers do not repay their loans or our counterparties fail to perform according to the terms of their contracts. A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, leveraged loans, leases and lending commitments, derivatives, trading assets, insurance arrangements with respect to such products, and assets held for sale. As one of the nation's largest lenders, the credit quality of our portfolio can have a significant impact on our earnings. We estimate and establish reserves for credit risks and credit losses inherent in our credit exposure (including unfunded credit commitments). This process, which is critical to our financial results and condition, requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. As is the case with any such assessments, there is always the chance that we will fail to identify the proper factors or that we will fail to accurately estimate the impacts of factors that we do identify.We might underestimate the credit losses inherent in our loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. We might increase the allowance because of changing economic conditions, including falling home prices and higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower behavior. As an example, borrowers may discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments.9While we believe that our allowance for credit losses was adequate at December 31, 2014, there is no assurance that it will be sufficient to cover all incurred credit losses, especially if economic conditions worsen. In the event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, we may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce our earnings. For additional information, see the “Risk Management-Credit Risk Management” and “Critical Accounting Policies-Allowance for Credit Losses” sections of the MD&A in this Form 10-K.Our ALLL may not be adequate to cover our eventual losses.Like other financial institutions, we maintain an ALLL to provide for credit losses associated with loan defaults and nonperformance. Our ALLL is based on our evaluation of risks associated with our LHFI portfolio, including historical loss experience, expected loss calculations, delinquencies, performing status, the size and composition of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, and concentrations within the portfolio. Current economic conditions in the U.S. and in our markets could deteriorate, which could result in, among other things, greater than expected deterioration in credit quality of our loan portfolio or in the value of collateral securing these loans. Our ALLL may not be adequate to cover eventual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in order to maximize the collection of loan balances, we sometimes modify loan terms when there is a reasonable chance that an appropriate modification would allow our client to continue servicing the debt. If such modifications ultimately are less effective at mitigating loan losses than we expect, we may incur losses in excess of the specific amount of ALLL associated with a modified loan, and this would result in additional provision for loan losses.In 2012, the FASB issued for public comment a Proposed ASU, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Subtopic 825-15) (the Credit Loss Proposal), that would substantially change the accounting for credit losses under U.S. GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP's current standards, credit losses are not reflected in the financial statements until it is probable that the credit loss has been incurred. Under the Credit Loss Proposal, an entity would reflect in its financial statements its current estimate of credit losses on financial assets over the expected life of each financial asset. The Credit Loss Proposal, if adopted as proposed, may have a negative impact on our reported earnings, capital, regulatory capital ratios, as well as on regulatory limits which are based on capital (e.g., loans to affiliates) since it would accelerate the recognition of estimated credit losses.We may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent that our loans are concentrated by loan type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the borrower or collateral.Our credit risk and credit losses can increase if our loans are concentrated in borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities or in borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. As Florida is our largest banking state in terms of loans and deposits, deterioration in real estate values and underlying  economic conditions in those markets or elsewhere could result in materially higher credit losses. A deterioration in economic conditions, housing conditions, or real estate values in the markets in which we operate could result in materially higher credit losses. For additional information, see the “Loans”, “Allowance for Credit Losses”, “Risk Management-Credit Risk Management” and “Critical Accounting Policies-Allowance for Credit Losses” sections in the MD&A and Notes 6 and 7, “Loans” and “Allowance for Credit Losses”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.A downgrade in the U.S. government's sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to us and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict.On August, 5, 2011, S&P downgraded the credit rating of the U.S. government from AAA to AA+. Subsequently, on June 10, 2013, S&P reaffirmed its government bond rating of the U.S. at AA+, while also raising its outlook from “Negative” to “Stable.” On July 18, 2013, Moody’s reaffirmed the government bond rating of the U.S. at Aaa, while raising the outlook from “Negative” to “Stable.” Further, on March 21, 2014, Fitch upgraded its AAA rating of U.S. government debt from “Ratings Watch Negative” to "Stable."While the risk of a sovereign credit ratings downgrade of the U.S. government, including the rating of U.S. Treasury securities, has been reduced, the possibility still remains. It is foreseeable that the ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the U.S. government could also be correspondingly affected by any such downgrade. Instruments of this nature are key assets on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including us, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to meet their day-to-day cash flows in the short-term debt market.A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government and the perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. A downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. Such ratings actions could result in a significant adverse impact on us. In addition, we presently deliver a material portion of the residential mortgage loans we originate to government-sponsored institutions, agencies or instrumentalities (or instruments insured or guaranteed thereby). We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings of these organizations will affect their ability to finance residential mortgage loans. Such ratings actions, if any, could result in a significant change to our mortgage business. A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies, or instrumentalities would significantly exacerbate the other risks to which we are subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.10We are subject to certain risks related to originating and selling mortgages. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain breaches of our servicing agreements, and this could harm our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition.We originate and often sell mortgage loans. When we sell mortgage loans, whether as whole loans or pursuant to a securitization, we are required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. Between 2006 and 2013, we received an elevated number of repurchase and indemnity demands from purchasers. These resulted in an increase in the amount of losses for repurchases. In September 2013, we reached a settlement with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to address outstanding and potential repurchase obligations. However, the 2013 agreements with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac settling certain aspects of our repurchase obligations preserve their right to require repurchases arising from certain types of events, and that preservation of rights can impact our future losses. While the repurchase reserve includes the estimated cost of settling claims related to required repurchases, our estimate of losses depends on our assumptions regarding GSE and other counterparty behavior, loan performance, home prices, and other factors. For additional information, see Note 16, “Guarantees,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K, and the following sections of the MD&A in this Form 10-K-”Noninterest Income” and “Critical Accounting Policies.”In addition to repurchase claims from the GSEs, we have received indemnification claims from, and in some cases, have been sued by, non-GSE purchasers of our loans. These claims allege that we sold loans that failed to conform to statements regarding the quality of the mortgage loans sold, the manner in which the loans were originated and underwritten, and the compliance of the loans with state and federal law. See additional discussion in Note 19, “Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Critical Accounting Policies” of the MD&A in this Form 10-K.We also have received indemnification requests related to our servicing of loans owned or insured by other parties, primarily GSEs. Typically, such a claim seeks to impose a compensatory fee on us for departures from GSE service levels. In most cases, this is related to delays in the foreclosure process. Additionally, we have received indemnification requests where an investor or insurer has suffered a loss due to a breach of the servicing agreement. While the number of such claims has been small, these could increase in the future. See additional discussion in Note 16, “Guarantees,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.We face certain risks as a servicer of loans. We act as servicer and/or master servicer for mortgage loans included in securitizations and for unsecuritized mortgage loans owned by investors. As a servicer or master servicer for those loans, we have certain contractual obligations to the securitization trusts, investors or other third parties, including, in our capacity as a servicer, foreclosing on defaulted mortgage  loans or, to the extent consistent with the applicable securitization or other investor agreement, considering alternatives to foreclosure such as loan modifications or short sales and, in our capacity as a master servicer, overseeing the servicing of mortgage loans by the servicer. Generally, our servicing obligations are set by contract, for which we receive a contractual fee. However, the costs to perform contracted-for services has increased, which reduces our profitability. As a servicer, we advance expenses on behalf of investors which we may be unable to collect. Further, GSEs can amend their servicing guidelines, which can increase the scope or costs of the services we are required to perform without any corresponding increase in our servicing fee. Further, the CFPB has implemented national servicing standards which have increased the scope and costs of services which we are required to perform. In addition, there has been a significant increase in state laws that impose additional servicing requirements that increase the scope and cost of our servicing obligations.If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which can generally be given by the securitization trustee or a specified percentage of security holders, causing us to lose servicing income. In addition, we may be required to indemnify the securitization trustee against losses from any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, to perform our servicing obligations or any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, or gross negligence. For certain investors and/or certain transactions, we may be contractually obligated to repurchase a mortgage loan or reimburse the investor for credit losses incurred on the loan as a remedy for servicing errors with respect to the loan. If we experience increased repurchase obligations because of claims that we did not satisfy our obligations as a servicer or master servicer, or increased loss severity on such repurchases, we may have to materially increase our repurchase reserve.We may incur costs if we are required to, or if we elect to, re-execute or re-file documents or take other action in our capacity as a servicer in connection with pending or completed foreclosures. We may incur litigation costs if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower. If a court were to overturn a foreclosure because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process, we may have liability to the borrower and/or to any title insurer of the property sold in foreclosure if the required process was not followed. These costs and liabilities may not be legally or otherwise reimbursable to us, particularly to the extent they relate to securitized mortgage loans. In addition, if certain documents required for a foreclosure action are missing or defective, we could be obligated to cure the defect or repurchase the loan. We may incur a liability to securitization investors relating to delays or deficiencies in our processing of mortgage assignments or other documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. The fair value of our MSRs may be adversely affected to the extent our servicing costs increase because of higher foreclosure costs. Any of these actions may harm our reputation or adversely affect our residential mortgage origination or servicing business.11We are subject to risks related to delays in the foreclosure process.When we originate a mortgage loan, we do so with the expectation that if the borrower defaults, our ultimate loss is mitigated by the value of the collateral which secures the mortgage loan. Our ability to mitigate our losses on such defaulted loans depends upon our ability to promptly foreclose upon such collateral after an appropriate cure period. In some states, the large number of foreclosures which have occurred has resulted in delays in foreclosing. In some instances, our practices or failures to adhere to our policies have contributed to these delays. Any delay in the foreclosure process will adversely affect us by increasing our expenses related to carrying such assets, such as taxes, insurance, and other carrying costs, and exposes us to losses as a result of potential additional declines in the value of such collateral.Our earnings may be affected by volatility in mortgage production and servicing revenues, and by changes in carrying values of our MSRs and mortgages held for sale due to changes in interest rates.We earn revenue from fees we receive for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans usually tends to fall, reducing the revenue we receive from loan originations (mortgage production revenue).Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions and thus the fair value of our MSRs. An MSR is the right to service a mortgage loan-collect principal, interest and escrow amounts-for a fee. When interest rates fall, borrowers are usually more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a lower rate. As the likelihood of prepayment increases, the fair value of our MSRs can decrease. Each quarter we evaluate the fair value of our MSRs and any related hedges, and any decrease in fair value reduces earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs.Similarly, we measure at fair value prime mortgages held for sale for which an active secondary market and readily available market prices exist. We also measure at fair value certain other interests we hold related to residential loan sales and securitizations. Similar to other interest-bearing securities, the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. For example, if market interest rates increase relative to the yield on these mortgages held for sale and other interests, their fair value may fall. We may not hedge this risk, and even if we do hedge the risk with derivatives and other instruments, we may still incur significant losses from changes in the value of these mortgages held for sale and other interests or from changes in the value of the hedging instruments. For additional information, see “Enterprise Risk Management-Other Market Risk” and “Critical Accounting Policies” in the MD&A, and Note 9, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.We use derivatives to hedge the risk of changes in the fair value of the MSR, exclusive of decay. The hedge may not be effective and may cause volatility, or losses, in our mortgage servicing income. Also, we typically use derivatives and other instruments to hedge our mortgage banking interest rate risk.  We generally do not hedge all of our risk, and we may not be successful in hedging any of the risk. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. We may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. We could incur significant losses from our hedging activities. There may be periods where we elect not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk. For additional information, see Note 17, “Derivative Financial Instruments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.Changes in market interest rates or capital markets could adversely affect our revenue and expense, the value of assets and obligations, and the availability and cost of capital and liquidity.Market risk refers to potential losses arising from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices, and other relevant market rates or prices. Interest rate risk, defined as the exposure of net interest income and MVE to adverse movements in interest rates, is our primary market risk, and mainly arises from the nature of the loans on our balance sheet. We are also exposed to market risk in our trading instruments, AFS investment portfolio, MSRs, loan warehouse and pipeline, and debt and brokered deposits carried at fair value. ALCO meets regularly and is responsible for reviewing our open positions and establishing policies to monitor and limit exposure to market risk. The policies established by ALCO are reviewed and approved by our Board. See additional discussion of changes in market interest rates in the "Market Risk Management” section of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K.Given our business mix, and the fact that most of the assets and liabilities are financial in nature, we tend to be sensitive to market interest rate movements and the performance of the financial markets. In addition to the impact of the general economy, changes in interest rates or in valuations in the debt or equity markets could directly impact us in one or more of the following ways:•The yield on earning assets and rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities may change in disproportionate ways;•The value of certain balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments that we hold could decline;•The value of our pension plan assets could decline, thereby potentially requiring us to further fund the plan; or•To the extent we access capital markets to raise funds to support our business, such changes could affect the cost of such funds or the ability to raise such funds.Our net interest income is the interest we earn on loans, debt securities, and other assets we hold less the interest we pay on our deposits, long-term and short-term debt, and other liabilities. Net interest income is a function of both our net interest margin-the difference between the yield we earn on our assets and the interest rate we pay for deposits and our other sources of funding-and the amount of earning assets we hold. Changes in either our net interest margin or the amount of earning assets we hold could affect our net interest income and 12our earnings. Changes in interest rates can affect our net interest margin. Although the yield we earn on our assets and our funding costs tend to move in the same direction in response to changes in interest rates, one can rise or fall faster than the other, causing our net interest margin to expand or contract. When interest rates rise, our funding costs may rise faster than the yield we earn on our assets, causing our net interest margin to contract until the asset yield catches up.The amount and type of earning assets we hold can affect our yield and net interest margin. We hold earning assets in the form of loans and investment securities, among other assets. As noted above, if economic conditions deteriorate, we may see lower demand for loans by creditworthy customers, reducing our yield. In addition, we may invest in lower yielding investment securities for a variety of reasons.Changes in the slope of the “yield curve,” or the spread between short-term and long-term interest rates, could also reduce our net interest margin. Normally, the yield curve is upward sloping, meaning short-term rates are lower than long-term rates. The interest we earn on our assets and our costs to fund those assets may be affected by changes in market interest rates, changes in the slope of the yield curve, and our cost of funding. This could lower our net interest margin and our net interest income. We discuss these topics in greater detail in the "Enterprise Risk Management" section of Item 7, MD&A, in this Form 10-K.We assess our interest rate risk by estimating the effect on our earnings under various scenarios that differ based on assumptions about the direction, magnitude, and speed of interest rate changes and the slope of the yield curve. We hedge some of that interest rate risk with interest rate derivatives.We may not hedge all of our interest rate risk. There is always the risk that changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income and our earnings in material amounts, especially if actual conditions turn out to be materially different than what we assumed. For example, if interest rates rise or fall faster than we assumed or the slope of the yield curve changes, we may incur significant losses on debt securities we hold as investments. To reduce our interest rate risk, we may rebalance our investment and loan portfolios, refinance our debt, and take other strategic actions. We may incur losses when we take such actions. For additional information, see the “Enterprise Risk Management” and "Net Interest Income/Margin" sections of the MD&A in this Form 10-K. Disruptions in our ability to access global capital markets may adversely affect our capital resources and liquidity.In managing our Consolidated Balance Sheet, we depend on access to global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the transaction and cash management needs of our clients. Other sources of contingent funding available to us include inter-bank borrowings, repurchase agreements, FHLB capacity, and borrowings from the Federal Reserve discount window. Any occurrence that may limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of debt investors, our depositors or counterparties participating in the capital markets, or a downgrade of our debt  rating, may adversely affect our funding costs and our ability to raise funding and, in turn, our liquidity.The fiscal and monetary policies of the federal government and its agencies could have a material adverse effect on our earnings.The Federal Reserve regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. Its policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the net interest margin. They can also materially decrease the value of financial assets we hold, such as debt securities and MSRs. Federal Reserve policies can also adversely affect borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans, or could adversely create asset bubbles which result from prolonged periods of accommodative policy, and which in turn result in volatile markets and rapidly declining collateral values. Changes in Federal Reserve policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict; consequently, the impact of these changes on our activities and results of operations is difficult to predict. Also, potential new taxes on corporations generally, or on financial institutions specifically, would adversely affect our net income.Clients could pursue alternatives to bank deposits, causing us to lose a relatively inexpensive source of funding.Checking and savings account balances and other forms of client deposits could decrease if clients perceive alternative investments as providing superior expected returns. When clients move money out of bank deposits in favor of alternative investments, we can lose a relatively inexpensive source of funds, increasing our funding costs.Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions, which could affect net income.Technology and other changes now allow parties to complete financial transactions without banks. For example, consumers can pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This process could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of client deposits and the income generated from those deposits.We have businesses other than banking which subject us to a variety of risks.We are a diversified financial services company. This diversity subjects earnings to a broader variety of risks and uncertainties. Other businesses include investment banking, securities underwriting and retail and wholesale brokerage services offered through our subsidiaries. Securities underwriting, loan syndications and securities market making entail significant market, operational, credit, legal, and other risks that could materially adversely impact us and our results of operations.Negative public opinion could damage our reputation and adversely impact business and revenues.As a financial institution, our earnings and capital are subject to risks associated with negative public opinion. The reputation of the financial services industry, in general, has been damaged as a result of the financial crisis and other matters 13affecting the financial services industry, including mortgage foreclosure issues. Negative public opinion regarding us could result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending practices, the failure of any product or service sold by us to meet our clients' expectations or applicable regulatory requirements, corporate governance and acquisitions, or from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect our ability to keep and attract and/or retain clients and personnel and can expose us to litigation and regulatory action. Actual or alleged conduct by one of our businesses can result in negative public opinion about our other businesses. We rely on other companies to provide key components of our business infrastructure.Third parties provide key components of our business infrastructure such as banking services, processing, and internet connections and network access. Any disruption in such services provided by these third parties or any failure of these third parties to handle current or higher volumes of use could adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to clients and otherwise to conduct business. Technological or financial difficulties of a third party service provider could adversely affect our business to the extent those difficulties result in the interruption or discontinuation of services provided by that party. Further, in some instances we may be responsible for failures of such third parties to comply with government regulations. We may not be insured against all types of losses as a result of third party failures and our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses resulting from system failures or other disruptions. Failures in our business infrastructure could interrupt the operations or increase the costs of doing business.We are at risk of increased losses from fraud.Recently, we have seen an increase in the frequency and sophistication of fraudulent activity. Criminals committing fraud increasingly are using more sophisticated techniques and in some cases are part of larger criminal rings which allows them to be more effective.The fraudulent activity has taken many forms, ranging from check fraud, mechanical devices attached to ATM machines, social engineering and phishing attacks to obtain personal information. Further, in addition to fraud committed against us, we may suffer losses as a result of fraudulent activity committed against third parties. For example, in 2014 several national retail merchants suffered data compromises involving the personal and payment card information of SunTrust customers. The perpetrators of this fraud executed unauthorized charges against SunTrust account holders which we were required to reimburse. While we may be entitled to full or partial indemnification from such merchants for their failure to protect our client’s personal data, there can be no assurance that we will receive such indemnification, that it will be adequate, or that it will cover other losses such as lost profits or costs to reissue payment cards. Further, as a result of increased fraud activity, we have increased our spending on systems to detect and prevent fraud, and may need to make further investments in the future. A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of our third party vendors and other service providers, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses.We depend upon our ability to process, record, and monitor a large number of client transactions on a continuous basis. As client, public, and regulatory expectations regarding operational and information security have increased, our operational systems and infrastructure must continue to be safeguarded and monitored for potential failures, disruptions, and breakdowns. Our business, financial, accounting, data processing, or other operating systems and facilities may stop operating properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. For example, there could be sudden increases in client transaction volume; electrical or telecommunications outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes; disease pandemics; events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and, as described below, cyber-attacks. Although we have business continuity plans and other safeguards in place, our business operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients.Information security risks for large financial institutions such as ours have generally increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, activists, and other external parties. As noted above, our operations rely on the secure processing, transmission, and storage of confidential information in our computer systems and networks. Our banking, brokerage, investment advisory, and capital markets businesses rely on our digital technologies, computer and email systems, software, and networks to conduct their operations. In addition, to access our products and services, our clients may use personal smartphones, tablet PCs, personal computers, and other mobile devices or software that are beyond our control. Although we have information security procedures and controls in place, our technologies, systems, networks, and our clients' devices and software may become the target of cyber-attacks or information security breaches that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our or our clients' confidential, proprietary and other information, or otherwise disrupt our or our clients' or other third parties' business operations. The Internet and computing devices in general are prime targets for criminals who utilize sophisticated technology to seek, discover and exploit vulnerabilities that may, or may not, be generally known. In 2014 several vulnerabilities in core Internet security technologies were announced and widely publicized in the media. These vulnerabilities increased the potential of loss or compromise for users of the Internet until specific actions were taken by the user or entities outside our direct control. SunTrust experienced no material loss or disruption of services relating to these vulnerabilities.14Third parties with whom we do business or that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing houses, financial intermediaries, or vendors that provide services or security solutions for our operations, could also be sources of operational and information security risk to us, including from breakdowns or failures of their own systems or capacity constraints.Although to date we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks or other information security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale and our role in the financial services industry, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our clients when and how they want to be served, our expanded geographic footprint, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, and the continued uncertain global economic environment. As a result, cybersecurity and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes, and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage, or unauthorized access remain a focus for us. As threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities.As a necessary aspect of operating our business we must provide access to customer and sensitive company information to our employees, contractors, consultants, third parties and other authorized entities. Controls and oversight mechanisms are in place to limit access to this information and protect it from unauthorized disclosure or theft. Control systems and policies pertaining to system access are subject to errors in design, oversight failure, software failure, intentional subversion or other compromise resulting in theft, error, loss or inappropriate use of information or systems to commit fraud, cause embarrassment to the company or its executives or to gain competitive advantage.Additionally, the FRB, the CFPB, and other regulators expect financial institutions to be responsible for all aspects of their performance, including aspects which they delegate to third parties. Disruptions or failures in the physical infrastructure or operating systems that support our businesses and clients, or cyber-attacks or security breaches of the networks, systems, devices, or software that our clients use to access our products and services could result in client attrition, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensation costs, and/or additional compliance costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different industries  and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institution, or the financial services industry generally, in the past have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the financial instrument exposure due us. There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially and adversely affect our results of operations.We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about clients and counterparties.In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions with clients and counterparties, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of clients and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of clients and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to financial statements, on reports of independent auditors.Competition in the financial services industry is intense and we could lose business or suffer margin declines as a result.We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of reform of the financial services industry resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative, regulatory, and technological changes, and from continued consolidation. We face aggressive competition from other domestic and foreign lending institutions and from numerous other providers of financial services. The ability of nonbanking financial institutions to provide services previously limited to commercial banks has intensified competition. Because nonbanking financial institutions are not subject to the same regulatory restrictions as banks and bank holding companies, they can often operate with greater flexibility and lower cost structures. Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking, and may acquire banks and other financial institutions. This may significantly change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources and/or face fewer regulatory constraints. As a result of these various sources of competition, we could lose business to competitors or be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, either of which would adversely affect our profitability.Maintaining or increasing market share depends on market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt 15products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower prices. This can reduce net interest income and noninterest income from fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to modify or adapt existing products and services or develop new products and services. We may not be successful in introducing new products and services in response to industry trends or developments in technology, or those new products may not achieve market acceptance. As a result, we could lose business, be forced to price products and services on less advantageous terms to retain or attract clients, or be subject to cost increases, any of which would adversely affect our profitability.We might not pay dividends on our stock.Holders of our stock are only entitled to receive such dividends as our Board may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. Although we have historically declared cash dividends on our stock, we are not required to do so.Further, in February 2009, the Federal Reserve required bank holding companies to substantially reduce or eliminate dividends. Since that time, the Federal Reserve has indicated that increased capital distributions would generally not be considered prudent in the absence of a well-developed capital plan and a capital position that would remain strong even under adverse conditions. As a result, any increase in our dividend will require the approval of the Federal Reserve. Refer to the discussion under the caption “We are subject to capital adequacy and liquidity guidelines and, if we fail to meet these guidelines, our financial condition would be adversely affected,” above.Additionally, our obligations under the warrant agreements that we entered into with the U.S. Treasury as part of the CPP will increase to the extent that we pay dividends on our common stock prior to December 31, 2018 exceeding $0.54 per share per quarter, which was the amount of dividends we paid when we first participated in the CPP. Specifically, the exercise price and the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will be adjusted proportionately (that is, adversely to us) as specified in a formula contained in the warrant agreements.Our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends.We are a separate and distinct legal entity from our subsidiaries, including the Bank. We receive substantially all of our revenue from dividends from our subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock and interest and principal on our debt. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that our Bank and certain of our nonbank subsidiaries may pay us. Also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. Limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. Additionally, if our subsidiaries' earnings are not sufficient to make dividend payments to us while maintaining adequate capital levels, we  may not be able to make dividend payments to our common stockholders.Any reduction in our credit rating could increase the cost of our funding from the capital markets.The rating agencies regularly evaluate us, and their ratings are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength as well as factors not entirely within our control, including conditions affecting the financial services industry generally. Our failure to maintain those ratings could adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain funding and increase our cost of capital. Credit ratings are one of numerous factors that influence our funding costs. Among our various retail and wholesale funding sources, credit ratings have a more direct impact on the cost of wholesale funding, as our primary source of retail funding is bank deposits, most of which are insured by the FDIC. See Item 7, MD&A, "Liquidity Risk Management.”We have in the past and may in the future pursue acquisitions, which could affect costs and from which we may not be able to realize anticipated benefits.We have historically pursued acquisitions, and may seek acquisitions in the future. We may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, complete proposed acquisitions, successfully integrate acquired businesses into the existing operations, or expand into new markets. Once integrated, acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability, or productivity comparable with those achieved by our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected.Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the integration of the operations, technologies, services, and products of the acquired companies, and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. We may not properly ascertain all such risks prior to an acquisition or prior to such a risk impacting us while integrating an acquired company. As a result, difficulties encountered with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Furthermore, we must generally receive federal regulatory approval before we can acquire a bank or BHC. In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition, future prospects, including current and projected capital levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management, compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring institution's record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating money laundering activities. In addition, we cannot be certain when or if, or on what terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be granted. Consequently, we might be required to sell portions of the acquired institution as a condition to receiving regulatory approval or we may not obtain regulatory approval for a proposed acquisition on acceptable terms or at all, in which case we would not be able to complete the 16acquisition despite the time and expenses invested in pursuing it.Additionally, our regulatory requirements increase as our size increases. We become subject to enhanced capital and liquidity requirements once our assets exceed $250 billion, and our regulators likely would expect us to begin voluntarily complying with those requirements as we approach that size.We are subject to litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results.From time to time we are subject to litigation in the course of our business. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. During the recent credit crisis, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. The outcome of these cases is uncertain.We establish reserves for legal claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. We may still incur legal costs for a matter even if we have not established a reserve. In addition, the actual cost of resolving a legal claim may be substantially higher than any amounts reserved for that matter. The ultimate resolution of a pending legal proceeding, depending on the remedy sought and granted, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. We may be exposed to substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For additional information, see Note 19, “Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.We may incur fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, possibly even inadvertent or unintentional violations.We maintain systems and procedures designed to ensure that we comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that these will be effective. In addition to fines and penalties, we may suffer other negative consequences from regulatory violations including restrictions on certain activities, such as our mortgage business, which may affect our relationship with the GSEs and may also damage our reputation, and this in turn might materially affect our business and results of operations.For example, on October 10, 2013, we announced that we reached agreements in principle with the HUD and the U.S. DOJ to settle (i) certain civil and administrative claims arising from FHA-insured mortgage loans originated by STM from January 1, 2006 through March 31, 2012 and (ii) certain alleged civil claims regarding our mortgage servicing and origination practices as part of the National Mortgage Servicing Settlement. Pursuant to the combined settlement, we agreed to pay $468 million. In addition, we agreed to provide $500 million of consumer relief and to implement certain mortgage servicing standards. Further, some legal/regulatory frameworks provide for the imposition of fines or penalties for noncompliance even though the noncompliance was inadvertent or unintentional and even though there were in place at the time systems and procedures designed to ensure compliance. For example, we are subject to regulations issued by the OFAC that prohibit financial institutions from participating in the transfer of property belonging to the governments of certain foreign countries and designated nationals of those countries. OFAC may impose penalties for inadvertent or unintentional violations even if reasonable processes are in place to prevent the violations. Additionally, federal regulators have begun pursuing financial institutions with emerging theories of recovery under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA). Courts may uphold significant additional penalties on financial institutions, even where the financial institution had already reimbursed the government or other counterparties for actual losses.We depend on the expertise of key personnel. If these individuals leave or change their roles without effective replacements, operations may suffer.Our success depends, to a large degree, on the continued services of executive officers, especially our Chairman and CEO, William H. Rogers, Jr., and other key personnel who have extensive experience in the industry. We generally do not carry key person life insurance on any of the executive officers or other key personnel. If we lose the services of any of these integral personnel and fail to manage a smooth transition to new personnel, the business could be adversely impacted.We may not be able to hire or retain additional qualified personnel and recruiting and compensation costs may increase as a result of turnover, both of which may increase costs and reduce profitability and may adversely impact our ability to implement our business strategies.Our success depends upon the ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified personnel. We face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. Our ability to execute our business strategy and provide high quality service may suffer if we are unable to recruit or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees or if the costs of employee compensation or benefits increase substantially. Further, in June 2010, the Federal Reserve and other federal banking regulators jointly issued comprehensive final guidance designed to ensure that incentive compensation policies do not undermine the safety and soundness of banking organizations by encouraging employees to take imprudent risks. This regulation significantly restricts the amount, form, and context in which we pay incentive compensation.Our accounting policies and processes are critical to how we report our financial condition and results of operations. They require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain.Accounting policies and processes are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities 17and financial results. Several of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates in preparing our financial statements, including in determining credit loss reserves, reserves related to litigation and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities, including the value of goodwill, among other items. If assumptions or estimates underlying our financial statements are incorrect, or are adjusted periodically, we may experience material losses.Management has identified certain accounting policies as being critical because they require management's judgment to ascertain the valuations of assets, liabilities, commitments, and contingencies. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate value that is obtained either when earning income, recognizing an expense, recovering an asset, valuing an asset or liability, or recognizing or reducing a liability. We have established detailed policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure these critical accounting estimates and judgments are well controlled and applied consistently. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. Because of the uncertainty surrounding our judgments and the estimates pertaining to these matters, we cannot guarantee that we will not be required to adjust accounting policies or restate prior period financial statements. We discuss these topics in greater detail in Item 7, MD&A, "Critical Accounting Policies,” Note 1, “Significant Accounting Policies,” and Note 18, "Fair Value Election and Measurement," to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K.Further, from time to time, the FASB and SEC change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. In addition, accounting standard setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the FASB, SEC, banking regulators and our outside auditors) may change or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. Changes in financial accounting and reporting standards and changes in current interpretations may be beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in us restating prior period financial statements.Our financial instruments carried at fair value expose us to certain market risks.We maintain at fair value a securities AFS portfolio and trading assets and liabilities and derivatives, which include various types of instruments and maturities. Additionally, we elected to record selected fixed-rate debt, mortgage loans, MSRs and other financial instruments at fair value. Changes in fair value of the financial instruments carried at fair value are recognized in earnings. The financial instruments carried at fair value are exposed to market risks related to changes in interest rates, market liquidity, and our market-based credit spreads, as  well as to the risk of default by specific borrowers. We manage the market risks associated with these instruments through active hedging arrangements or broader ALM strategies. Changes in the market values of these financial instruments could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We may classify additional financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value in the future. See Note 18, “Fair Value Election and Measurement" in this Form 10-K.Our controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud.Our controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accurately accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met.These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision making can be faulty, that alternative reasoned judgments can be drawn, or that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected, which could result in a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting and the restatement of previously filed financial statements.Our stock price can be volatile.Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including:•variations in our quarterly results;•changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry;•governmental and regulatory legislation or actions;•issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future;•changes in dividends;•the addition or departure of key personnel;•cyclical fluctuations;•changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock;•announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures; and•activity by short sellers and changing government restrictions on such activity.General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as terrorist attacks, economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends, or currency fluctuations, also could cause our stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. For the above and other reasons, the market price of our 18securities may not accurately reflect the underlying value of our securities, and you should consider this before relying on the market prices of our securities when making an investment decision.Our revenues derived from our investment securities may be volatile and subject to a variety of risks.We generally maintain investment securities and trading positions in the fixed income, currency, and equity markets. Unrealized gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio and mark-to-market gains and losses associated with our trading portfolio are affected by many factors, including interest rate volatility, volatility in capital markets, and other economic factors. Our return on such investments and trading have in the past experienced, and will likely in the future experience, volatility and such volatility may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, accounting regulations may require us to record a charge prior to the actual realization of a loss when market valuations of such securities are impaired and such impairment is considered to be other than temporary.We may enter into transactions with off-balance sheet affiliates.We engage in a variety of transactions with off-balance sheet entities with which we are affiliated. While we have no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to do so, under certain limited circumstances these transactions may involve providing some form of financial support to these entities. Any such actions may cause us to recognize current or future gains or losses. Depending on the nature and magnitude of any transaction we enter into with off-balance sheet entities, accounting rules may require us to consolidate the financial results of these entities with our financial results. Item 1B