Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. Currency
exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. Dollar can affect reported
consolidated revenues and net earnings. We may hedge a portion of this exposure
from time to time to reduce the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations on
net earnings. See the Market Risk section of Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
in the Financial Report included in St. Jude Medical’s 2006 Annual Report to
Shareholders and filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. 

Seasonality 

Our quarterly
net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions,
acquisitions, regulatory approvals, patient and physician holiday schedules and other
factors. Net sales in the third quarter are typically lower than other quarters
of the year as a result of patient tendencies to defer, if possible, cardiac
procedures during the summer months and from the seasonality of the U.S. and
European markets, where summer vacation schedules normally result in fewer
procedures. 

Suppliers 

We purchase
raw materials and other products from numerous suppliers. Our manufacturing
requirements comply with the rules and regulations of the FDA, which mandates
validation of materials prior to use in our products. We purchase certain
supplies used in our manufacturing processes from single sources due to quality
considerations, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements.
Agreements with certain suppliers are terminable by either party upon short
notice and we have been advised periodically by some suppliers that in an effort
to reduce their potential product liability exposure, they may terminate sales
of products to customers that manufacture implantable medical devices. While
some of these suppliers have modified their positions and have indicated a
willingness to continue to provide a product temporarily until an alternative
vendor or product can be qualified (or even to reconsider the supply
relationship), where a particular single-source supply relationship is
terminated, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers
for certain components or materials quickly. A reduction or interruption by a
sole-source supplier of the supply of materials or key components used in the
manufacturing of our products or an increase in the price of those materials or
components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
of operations. 

Government Regulation


Our products,
development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and
rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act (FDCA), by comparable agencies in foreign countries and by other regulatory
agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDCA and associated regulations,
manufacturers of medical devices must comply with certain regulations that
cover the composition, labeling, testing, clinical study, manufacturing,
packaging and distribution of medical devices. Medical devices must receive FDA
clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed in the United
States. The most comprehensive level of approval requires the completion of an
FDA-approved clinical evaluation program and submission and approval of a
premarket approval (PMA) application before a device may be commercially
marketed. Our mechanical and tissue heart valves, ICDs, pacemakers and certain
leads, certain neurostimulation devices and certain EP catheter applications
are subject to this level of approval or as a supplement to a PMA. Other leads
and lead delivery tools, annuloplasty ring products, other neurostimulation
devices and other EP and cardiology products are currently marketed under the
less rigorous 510(k) pre-market notification procedure of the FDCA. 

9




Furthermore,
our international business is subject to medical device laws in individual
countries outside the United States. Most major markets for medical devices
outside the United States require clearance, approval or compliance with
certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The applicable
laws range from extensive device approval requirements in some countries for
all or some of our products, to requests for data or certifications in other
countries. Generally, international regulatory requirements are increasing. In
the European Union, the regulatory systems have been consolidated, and approval
to market in all European Union countries (represented by the CE Mark) can be
obtained through one agency. The process of obtaining marketing clearance from
the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products or with respect to
enhancements or modifications to existing products can take a significant
period of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve
rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, require changes to the products and
result in limitations on the indicated uses of the product. 

The FDA
conducts inspections prior to approval of a PMA application to determine
compliance with the quality system regulations that cover manufacturing and
design. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to
monitor the effects of approved products that have been commercialized, and may
prevent or limit further marketing of products based on the results of these
post-marketing programs. At any time after approval of a product, the FDA may
conduct periodic inspections to determine compliance with both the FDA’s
Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements and/or current medical device
reporting regulations. Product approvals by the FDA can be withdrawn due to
failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen
problems following initial approval. The failure to comply with regulatory
standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or
manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory
clearances, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the
banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund the cost of any device
previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and criminal
prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and
product liability claims. 

We are
required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and as a result, we
are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s QSR
requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to
certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation
procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations
require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that
reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to
a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements
is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic
inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain
certain International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications in
order to sell products, and we undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies
to obtain and maintain these certifications. 

The FDA also
regulates recordkeeping for medical devices and reviews hospital and
manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experiences to identify potential
problems with FDA-authorized devices. Regulatory actions may be taken by the
FDA due to adverse experience reports. 

Diagnostic-related
group (DRG) and Ambulatory Patient Classification (APC) reimbursement schedules
dictate the amount that the U.S. government, through the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, will reimburse hospitals for care of persons covered by
Medicare. In response to rising Medicare and Medicaid costs, several
legislative proposals are under consideration that would restrict future
funding increases for these programs. Changes in current DRG and APC
reimbursement levels could have an adverse effect on market demand and our domestic pricing
flexibility. 

More
generally, major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States
and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs and the introduction of
cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of healthcare
expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in
increased discounts and contractual adjustments to hospital charges for
services performed and in the shifting of services between inpatient and
outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs,
including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we
do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in
significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan and other countries
may limit the price of, or the level at which, reimbursement is provided for
our products. 

The United
States Medicare-Medicaid Anti-kickback law generally prohibits payments to
physicians or other purchasers of medical products under these government
programs as an inducement to purchase a product. Many foreign countries have
similar laws. We subscribe to the AdvaMed Code (AdvaMed is a U.S. medical
device industry trade association) which limits certain marketing and other
practices in our relationship with product purchasers. We also adhere to many
similar codes in countries outside the United States. 

Federal and
state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information,
including patient records, and restrict the use and disclosure of such
information. In particular, in October 2002, the U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services issued patient privacy rules under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA privacy

10



rule). The HIPAA
privacy rule governs the use and disclosure of protected health information by
“covered entities,” which are healthcare providers that submit electronic
claims, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. Other than to the extent we
self-insure part of our employee health benefits plans, the HIPAA privacy rule
only affects us indirectly. Our policy is to work with customers and business
partners in their HIPAA compliance efforts. 

Some medical
device regulatory agencies have begun to consider whether to continue to permit
the sale of medical devices that incorporate any bovine material because of
concerns about Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), sometimes referred to as
“mad cow disease,” a disease which has sometimes been transmitted to humans through
the consumption of beef. We are not aware of any reported cases of transmission
of BSE through medical products. Some of our products (Angio-Seal™ and vascular
grafts) use bovine collagen. In addition, some of the tissue heart valves we
market incorporate bovine pericardial material. We are cooperating with the
regulatory agencies considering these issues. 

Product Liability 

The design,
manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types we produce entail an
inherent risk of product liability claims. Our products are often used in
intensive care settings with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical
devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body
for long periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that
could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with
respect to these or other products which we manufacture or sell, including
component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate
disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. Product
liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to
represent a class. 

We are
currently the subject of various product liability claims, including several
lawsuits which may be allowed to proceed as class actions in the United States
and Canada. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is
difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often
seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the
potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods
of time. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against us in
the future, relative to events that are not known to management at the present
time. 

Insurance 

Problems with
our products can result in product liability claims or a field action, safety
alert or advisory notice relating to the product. Our product liability
insurance coverage is designed to help protect us against a catastrophic claim.
Our current product liability policies (for the period June 15, 2006 through
June 15, 2007) provide $350 million of insurance coverage, with a $100 million
deductible per occurrence. 

Our facilities
could be materially damaged by earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural
disasters or catastrophic circumstances. California earthquake insurance is
currently difficult to obtain, extremely costly, and restrictive with respect
to scope of coverage. Our earthquake insurance for our significant CRM
facilities located in Sylmar and Sunnyvale, California, provides $10 million of
insurance coverage in the aggregate, with a deductible equal to 5% of the total
value of the facility and contents involved in the claim. Consequently, despite
this insurance coverage, we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities
arising from an earthquake near one or both of our California facilities as a
result of various factors, including the severity and location of the
earthquake, the extent of any damage to our facilities, the impact of an
earthquake on our California workforce and on the infrastructure of the surrounding
communities and the extent of damage to our inventory and work in process.
While we believe that our exposure to significant losses from a California
earthquake could be partially mitigated by our ability to manufacture some of
our CRM products at our manufacturing facility in Sweden, the losses could have
a material adverse effect on our business for an indeterminate period of time
before this manufacturing transition is complete and operates without
significant problem. Furthermore, our manufacturing facility in Puerto Rico may
suffer damage as a result of hurricanes which are frequent in the Caribbean and
which could result in lost production and additional expenses to us to the
extent any such damage is not fully covered by our hurricane and business
interruption insurance. 

Employees 

As of December
30, 2006, we had approximately 11,000 employees worldwide. Our employees are
not represented by any labor organizations, with the exception of our employees
in Sweden and certain employees in France. We have never experienced a work
stoppage as a result of labor disputes. We believe that our relationship with
our employees is generally good. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant


The following
is a list of our executive officers as of February 16, 2007. For each position,
the dates in parentheses indicate the year during which each executive officer
began serving in such capacity. 

11






 


 


 


 


 




Name


 


Age


 


Position





















Daniel J.
  Starks


 


52


 


Chairman
  (2004), President (2001) and Chief Executive Officer (2004)




 


 


 


 


 




John C.
  Heinmiller


 


52


 


Executive
  Vice President (2004) and Chief Financial Officer (1998)




 


 


 


 


 




Christopher
  G. Chavez


 


51


 


President,
  Neuromodulation (2005)




 


 


 


 


 




Michael J.
  Coyle


 


44


 


President,
  Cardiac Rhythm Management (2001)




 


 


 


 


 




George J.
  Fazio


 


47


 


President,
  Cardiovascular (2007) 




 


 


 


 


 




Joseph H.
  McCullough


 


57


 


President,
  International (2001)




 


 


 


 


 




Michael T.
  Rousseau


 


51


 


President,
  U.S. (2001)




 


 


 


 


 




Jane J. Song


 


44


 


President,
  Atrial Fibrillation (2004)




 


 


 


 


 




I. Paul Bae


 


42


 


Vice
  President, Human Resources (2006)




 


 


 


 


 




Angela D. Craig


 


35


 


Vice
  President, Corporate Relations (2006)




 


 


 


 


 




Pamela S.
  Krop


 


48


 


Vice
  President (2006), General Counsel (2006) and Secretary (2006)




 


 


 


 


 




William J.
  McGarry


 


49


 


Vice
  President, Information Technology (2005) and Chief Information Officer (2005)




 


 


 


 


 




Thomas R.
  Northenscold


 


49


 


Vice
  President, Administration (2003)




 


 


 


 


 




Donald J.
  Zurbay


 


39


 


Vice
  President (2006) and Corporate Controller (2004)




Mr. Starks has
served on St. Jude Medical’s Board of Directors since 1996 and has been
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of St. Jude Medical since May
12, 2004. Previously, Mr. Starks was President and Chief Operating Officer of
St. Jude Medical since February 1, 2001. From April 1998 to February 2001, he
was President and Chief Executive Officer of our Cardiac Rhythm Management
Division, and prior to that, Mr. Starks was Chief Executive Officer and
President of Daig Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of St. Jude Medical. Mr.
Starks serves on the Board of Directors of Urologix, Inc., a urology medical
device company. 

Mr. Heinmiller
joined St. Jude Medical in May 1996 as a part of our acquisition of Daig
Corporation, where Mr. Heinmiller had served as Vice President of Finance and
Administration since 1995. In May 1998, he was named Vice President of
Corporate Business Development. In September 1998, he was appointed Vice
President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer and in May 2004 was promoted to
Executive Vice President. 

Mr. Chavez
joined St. Jude Medical as President, Neuromodulation Division, as part of our
acquisition of ANS in November 2005. From April 1998 to 2005, he served as
President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of ANS. Mr. Chavez serves on
the Board of Directors of Advanced Medical Optics, Inc., an optical medical
device company. 

Mr. Coyle
joined St. Jude Medical in 1994 as Director, Business Development. He served as
President and Chief Operating Officer of Daig Corporation, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of St. Jude Medical, from 1997 to 2001 and was appointed President,
Cardiac Rhythm Management, in February 2001. Mr. Coyle serves on the Board of
Directors of VNUS Medical Systems, Inc., a company that develops and markets
medical devices to treat peripheral vein disorders. 

Mr. Fazio
joined St. Jude Medical in 1992 and served as the General Manager of St. Jude
Medical Canada, Inc., based in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada, until being named
President, Health Care Services in May 1999. In July 2001, he was appointed
President of St. Jude Medical Europe and in August 2004 was named President,
Cardiac Surgery Division. In January 2007, he became President of the newly
formed Cardiovascular Division resulting from the combination of our Cardiology
and Cardiac Surgery Divisions.

Mr. McCullough
joined St. Jude Medical in 1994 as a Cardiac Rhythm Management Regional Sales
Director. He became Director of Cardiac Rhythm Management Marketing in 1996 and
was named Vice President of Cardiac Rhythm Management Marketing in January
1997. In December 1997, Mr. McCullough was appointed European Cardiac Rhythm
Management Business Unit Director. He became Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Europe and Managing Director of manufacturing operations in
Veddesta, Sweden, in January 1999, and Senior Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Europe in August 1999. He has served as President, International
Division since July 2001. 

12



Mr. Rousseau
joined St. Jude Medical in 1999 as Senior Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Global Marketing. In August 1999, Cardiac Rhythm Management
Marketing and Sales were combined under his leadership. In January
2001, he was named President, U.S. Cardiac Rhythm Management Sales, and in
July 2001, he was named President, U.S. Division. 

Ms. Song
joined St. Jude Medical in 1998 as Senior Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Operations. In May 2002, she was appointed President, Cardiac
Surgery Division, and in August 2004, was appointed President, Atrial
Fibrillation Division. 

Mr. Bae joined
St. Jude Medical in 2003 and most recently served as General Counsel and Vice
President, Human Resources for the U.S. Division. In September 2006, he was
appointed Vice President, Human Resources. Prior to joining St. Jude Medical,
Mr. Bae was Director of Litigation for Alpha Therapeutic Corporation, a
biopharmaceutical company. 

Ms. Craig
joined St. Jude Medical in May 2005 as Vice President of Communications and
served in that position until being named Vice President, Corporate Relations,
in January 2006. Prior to joining St. Jude Medical, Ms. Craig spent 12 years
with Smith & Nephew plc, a medical device company headquartered in London,
England, where she served as Director of Corporate Affairs from 2002 to 2003 prior to serving as
Vice President of U.S. Public Relations and Investor Relations from
2003 to 2005. 

Ms. Krop
joined St. Jude Medical in July 2006 as Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary. She previously spent 15 years at General Electric (GE)
Company, a diversified industrial corporation, most recently as General Counsel of GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences, a $3
billion business acquired by GE, formerly known as Amersham plc. 

Mr. McGarry
joined St. Jude Medical as Vice President, Information Technology and Chief
Information Officer in September 2005. From 2001 to 2005, Mr. McGarry served as
Vice President, Enterprise Applications, at Medtronic, Inc., a medical
device company, where he was responsible for managing global enterprise
applications development and deployment. 

Mr.
Northenscold joined St. Jude Medical in 2001 as Vice President, Finance and
Administration of Daig Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of St. Jude
Medical. In March 2003, he was appointed Vice President, Administration. 

Mr. Zurbay
joined St. Jude Medical in 2003 as Director of Corporate Finance. In 2004, Mr.
Zurbay was named Corporate Controller, and in January 2006 he was named Vice
President and Corporate Controller. From 1999 to 2003, he served as Senior
Audit Manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, a national public accounting firm.


Availability of SEC Reports


We make
available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments filed or furnished
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed or furnished
to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports are
available on our website (http://www.sjm.com) under Company Information section Investor
Relations or can be obtained by contacting our Investor Relations
group at 1.800.552.7664 or at St. Jude Medical, Inc., One Lillehei Plaza, St.
Paul, Minnesota 55117. Information included on our website is not deemed to be
incorporated into this Form 10-K. 

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 

Our business
faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form
10-K or our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business,
financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
immaterial may also impair our business operations. 

We face intense
competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological
changes in the medical devices industry. 

The medical device
market is intensely competitive and is characterized by extensive research and
development and rapid technological change. Our customers consider many factors
when choosing suppliers, including product reliability, clinical outcomes,
product availability, inventory consignment, price and product services
provided by the manufacturer, and market share can shift as a result of
technological innovation and other
business factors. Major shifts in industry
market share have occurred in
connection with product problems, physician advisories and safety alerts,
reflecting the importance of product quality in the medical device industry. Our competitors range from small start-up companies to larger
companies which have significantly greater resources and broader product
offerings than us, and we anticipate that in the coming years, other large
companies will enter certain markets in which we currently hold a strong position.
For example, Boston Scientific Corporation acquired one of our principal
competitors, Guidant Corporation, in 2006. In addition, we expect that
competition will continue to intensify with the increased use of strategies
such as consigned inventory and we have seen increasing price competition as a result of

13




managed care, consolidation among healthcare
providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates. Product introductions or enhancements by
competitors which have advanced technology, better features or lower pricing
may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. As a
result, we will be required to devote continued efforts and financial
resources to bring our products under development to market, enhance our
existing products and develop new products for the medical marketplace. If we
fail to develop new products, enhance existing products or compete
effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations will
be adversely affected. 

We are subject to
stringent domestic and foreign medical device regulation which may impede the
approval process for our products, hinder our development activities and
manufacturing processes and, in some cases, result in the recall or seizure of
previously approved products. 

Our products,
development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and
rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the FDCA, by comparable agencies in
foreign countries and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under
the FDCA and associated regulations, manufacturers of medical devices must
comply with certain regulations that cover the composition, labeling, testing,
clinical study, manufacturing, packaging and distribution of medical devices.
In addition, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they
can be commercially marketed in the United States, and the FDA may require
testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of approved products
that have been commercialized and can prevent or limit further marketing of a
product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Furthermore,
most major markets for medical devices outside the United States require
clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can
be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining marketing approval or
clearance from the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products or with
respect to enhancements or modifications to existing products could take a
significant period of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources,
involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, require changes to the
products and result in limitations on the indicated uses of the product. We
cannot be certain that we will receive the required approval or clearance from
the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products or modifications to
existing products on a timely basis. The failure to receive approval or
clearance for significant new products on a timely basis could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

At any time
after approval of a product, the FDA may conduct periodic inspections to
determine compliance with both the FDA’s QSR requirements and/or current
medical device reporting regulations. Product approvals by the FDA can be
withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence
of unforeseen problems following initial approval. The failure to comply with
regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a
product, component or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of
regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant
expenses), the banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund
the cost of any device previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions
and criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative
publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

We may not be able
to meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing process.


We are
required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and as a result, we
are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s QSR
requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to
certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation
procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations
require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that
reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to
a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements
is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic
inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain
certain ISO certifications in order to sell products and we undergo periodic
inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If
we or our manufacturers fail to adhere to QSR or ISO requirements, this could
delay production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining
regulatory clearances, recalls or other consequences, which could in turn have
a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.


If we are unable to
protect our intellectual property effectively, our financial condition and
results of operations could be adversely affected.


Patents and
other proprietary rights are essential to our business and our ability to
compete effectively with other companies is dependent upon the proprietary
nature of our technologies. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how,
continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop,
maintain and strengthen our competitive position. We seek to protect these, in
part, through confidentiality agreements with certain employees, consultants
and other parties. We pursue 

14



a policy of generally
obtaining patent protection in both the United States and in key foreign
countries for patentable subject matter in our proprietary devices and also
attempt to review third-party patents and patent applications to the extent
publicly available to develop an effective patent strategy, avoid infringement
of third-party patents, identify licensing opportunities and monitor the patent
claims of others. We currently own numerous United States and foreign patents
and have numerous patent applications pending. We are also a party to various
license agreements pursuant to which patent rights have been obtained or
granted in consideration for cash, cross-licensing rights or royalty payments.
We cannot be certain that any pending or future patent applications will result
in issued patents, that any current or future patents issued to or licensed by
us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights
granted thereunder will provide a competitive advantage to us or prevent
competitors from entering markets which we currently serve. Any required
license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition,
some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have
access to the same technologies as us. In addition, we may have to take legal
action in the future to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to defend them
against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any legal action of that
type could be costly and time consuming to us and we cannot be certain that any
lawsuit will be successful. The invalidation of key patents or proprietary
rights which we own or an unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits to protect our
intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. 

Pending and future
patent litigation could be costly and disruptive to us and may have an adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.


We operate in
an industry that is susceptible to significant patent litigation and, in recent
years, it has been common for companies in the medical device field to
aggressively challenge the rights of other companies to prevent the marketing
of new devices. Companies that obtain patents for products or processes that
are necessary for or useful to the development of our products may bring legal
actions against us claiming infringement and at any given time, we generally
are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent
infringement and other intellectual property-related actions. Among other
matters, we are currently defending two significant ongoing patent infringement
actions brought against us by one of our principal competitors, Guidant
Corporation, which is now part of Boston Scientific Corporation. Defending
intellectual property litigation is expensive and complex and outcomes are
difficult to predict. Any pending or future patent litigation may result in
significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that can prevent the sale
of products and may cause a significant diversion of the efforts of our
technical and management personnel. While we intend to defend any such lawsuits
vigorously, we cannot be certain that we will be successful. In the event that
our right to market any of our products is successfully challenged or if we
fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected. 

Pending and future
product liability claims and litigation may adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations. 

The design,
manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types we produce entail an
inherent risk of product liability claims. Our products are often used in
intensive care settings with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical
devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body
for long periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that
could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with
respect to these or other products which we manufacture or sell, including
component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate
disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. Product
liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to
represent a class. 

We are
currently the subject of various product liability claims, including several
lawsuits which may be allowed to proceed as class actions in the United States
and Canada. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is
difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often
seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the
potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial
periods of time. For example, in January 2000, we initiated a voluntary field
action to replace products incorporating Silzone® coating, which was used in
certain of our mechanical heart valves and heart valve repair products. After
our voluntary field action, we were sued in various jurisdictions and now have
cases pending in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and France which
have been brought by some patients alleging complications and past or future
costs arising either from the surgical removal or, alternatively, from the
continued implantation and maintenance of products incorporating Silzone®
coating over and above the
medical monitoring all replacement heart valve patients receive. Some of the
cases involving Silzone®-coated products have been settled, others have been
dismissed and still others are ongoing. The complaints in the ongoing
individual cases in the United States request damages ranging from $10,000 to
$120.5 million and in some cases, seek an unspecified amount, and the
complaints in the Canadian class actions request damages ranging from the
equivalent of $1.3 million to $1.8 billion at December 30, 2006. We believe
that the final resolution of the Silzone®-coated product cases will take
several years and we cannot reasonably estimate the time frame in which any
potential settlements or judgments would be paid out or the amounts of any such
settlements or judgments. In addition, the cost to defend any future
litigation, whether Silzone®-related or not, may be significant. While we
believe that many settlements and judgments relating to the Silzone® litigation
and our other litigation may be covered in whole or in part under our product liability
insurance policies and existing reserves, any costs not so covered could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

15 



We may be unable to
obtain appropriate levels of product liability insurance.


Problems with
our products can result in product liability claims or a field action, safety
alert or advisory notice relating to the product. Our product liability
insurance coverage is designed to help protect us against a catastrophic claim.
Our current product liability policies provide $350 million of insurance
coverage, with a $100 million deductible per occurrence. We cannot be certain that such insurance will be available or adequate to satisfy future claims or
that our insurers will be able to pay claims on insurance policies which they
have issued to us. If we are unable to secure appropriate levels of product
liability insurance coverage, our financial condition and results of operations
could be materially adversely affected. 

Our product
liability insurers may not be able to meet their current or future payment
obligations to us. 

Our remaining
product liability insurance for Silzone® claims consists of a number of layers,
each of which is covered by one or more insurance companies. Part of our final
layer of insurance is covered by a unit of the Kemper Insurance Companies
(Kemper), which is currently in “run off” and not issuing new policies or
generating any new revenue that could be used to cover claims made under
previously-issued policies such as ours. In the event that Kemper is unable to
pay part or all of the claims directed to it, we believe that the other
insurance carriers in above Kemper’s layer will take the position that we will
be directly liable for any claims and costs that Kemper is unable to pay and
that insurance carriers at policy layers following Kemper’s will not provide
coverage for Kemper’s layer. If Kemper or any other insurance companies are
unable to meet their respective obligations to us, we could incur substantial
losses which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations. 

Our operations are
subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could
require us to incur material costs. 

Our operations
are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations
concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, transportation and
disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, particularly ethylene oxide, the
cleanup of hazardous substance releases, and emissions or discharges into the
air or water. We have incurred and expect to incur expenditures in the future
in connection with compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations. New laws and regulations, violations of these laws or regulations,
stricter enforcement of existing requirements, or the discovery of previously
unknown contamination, could require us to incur costs or become the basis for
new or increased liabilities that could be material. 

The loss of any of
our sole-source suppliers or an increase in the price of inventory supplied to
us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 

We purchase
certain supplies used in our manufacturing processes from single sources due to
quality considerations, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory
requirements. Agreements with certain suppliers are terminable by either party
upon short notice and we have been advised periodically by some suppliers that
in an effort to reduce their potential product liability exposure, they may
terminate sales of products to customers that manufacture implantable medical
devices. While some of these suppliers have modified their positions and have
indicated a willingness to continue to provide a product temporarily until an
alternative vendor or product can be qualified (or even to reconsider the
supply relationship), where a particular single-source supply relationship is
terminated, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers
for certain components or materials quickly. This is largely due to the FDA
approval system, which mandates validation of materials prior to use in our
products, and the complex nature of manufacturing processes employed by many
suppliers. In addition, we may lose a sole-source supplier due to, among other
things, the acquisition of such a supplier by a competitor (which may cause the
supplier to stop selling its products to us) or the bankruptcy of such a
supplier, which may cause the supplier to cease operations. A reduction or
interruption by a sole-source supplier of the supply of materials or key
components used in the manufacturing of our products or an increase in the
price of those materials or components could adversely affect our business,
financial condition and results of operations. 

Cost containment
pressures and domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms
resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors or
preferences for alternate therapies could decrease the demand for products
purchased by our customers, the prices which they are willing to pay for those
products and the number of procedures using our devices.


Our products
are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which typically bill
various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and
Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare
services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain
appropriate reimbursement for their products and services from government and
third-party payors is critical to the success of medical technology companies.
The availability of reimbursement affects which products customers purchase and
the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies 

16



from country
to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. After
we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product
unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental
third-party payors. 

Major
third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and abroad
continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of cost
containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of healthcare
expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in
increased discounts and contractual adjustments to hospital charges for
services performed and in the shifting of services between inpatient and
outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs,
including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we
do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in
significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan and other countries may
limit the price of, or the level at which, reimbursement is provided for our
products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for
our products. Hospitals or physicians may respond to such cost-containment
pressures by substituting lower cost products or other therapies for our
products. 

Further
legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international
reimbursement systems that significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures
using our medical devices or deny coverage for such procedures, or adverse
decisions relating to our products by administrators of such systems in
coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the products,
including clinical products, purchased by our customers and the prices our
customers are willing to pay for them. This in turn would have an adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Our failure to
comply with restrictions relating to reimbursement and regulation of healthcare
goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations.

Our devices
are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services, including the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS), as well as comparable state and foreign agencies
responsible for reimbursement and regulation of healthcare goods and services.
Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare
reimbursement programs and the delivery of healthcare goods and services. U.S.
federal government healthcare laws apply when we submit a claim on behalf of a
U.S. federal healthcare program beneficiary, or when a customer submits a claim
for an item or service that is reimbursed under a U.S. federal government
funded healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S.
federal laws implicated include those that prohibit the filing of false or
improper claims for federal payment, those that prohibit unlawful inducements
for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded healthcare
programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and those that prohibit healthcare
service providers seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a
patient who was referred by a physician that has certain types of direct or
indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark
law.

The laws
applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental
authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws
and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe
criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from
participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by CMS. If we
are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation, it could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Consolidation in the
healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or to the
exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments.


The cost of
healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous
initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party
payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the
medical device industry as well as among our customers, including hospitals.
This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of
certain suppliers from important market segments, as group purchasing
organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts, such as
the Veterans Administration in the United States, continue to consolidate
purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market
demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal
pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting
in further business consolidations and alliances which may exert further
downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our business,
financial condition and results of operations. 

Failure to integrate
acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our
business. 

As part of our
strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made
several acquisitions in recent years, including our acquisition of ANS in
November 2005, and we may make additional acquisitions in the future. Our
integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant
efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and
development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These
efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of
management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects.

17



Our failure to
manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company could
also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that some of the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If
our acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected impairment
charges. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: 




 


 




•


the presence
  or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the
  financial systems of acquired companies; 




 


 




•


adverse
  developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the
  business practices of acquired companies, such as the current investigation
  into certain sales and marketing, reimbursement, Medicare and Medicaid billing
  and certain other business practices of ANS by the U.S. Department of Health
  and Human Services, Office of the Inspector General; 




 


 




•


any decrease
  in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the
  combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices,
  including price increases; 




 


 




•


our ability
  to retain key employees; and 




 


 




•


the ability
  of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies,
  such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost
  savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. 




The success of many
of our products depends upon strong relationships with physicians. 

If we fail to
maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products may
not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the
professionals who use and support our products, which could cause a decline in
earnings and profitability. The research, development, marketing and sales of
many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working
relationships with physicians. We rely on these professionals to provide us
with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the
marketing of our products. Physicians assist us as researchers, marketing
consultants, product consultants, inventors and as public speakers. If we are
unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and
continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing of
our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

Instability in
international markets or foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect
our results of operations.

Our products
are currently marketed in more than 100 countries around the world, with our
largest geographic markets outside of the United States being Europe and Japan.
As a result, we face currency and other risks associated with our international
sales. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to
transactions denominated primarily in euros, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollars,
Brazilian Reals, British Pounds and Swedish Kronor, which may potentially
reduce the U.S. Dollars we receive for sales denominated in any of these
foreign currencies and/or increase the U.S. Dollars we report as expenses in
these currencies, thereby affecting our reported consolidated revenues and net
earnings. We do not currently hedge our foreign currency exposure.
Consequently, fluctuations between the currencies in which we do business have
caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and
losses. We cannot predict the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations upon
our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the
variability of currency exposures and the volatility of currency exchange
rates. 

In addition to
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, there are a number of additional
risks associated with our international operations, including those related to:





 


 




•


the
  imposition of or increase in import or export duties, surtaxes, tariffs or
  customs duties; 




 


 




•


the
  imposition of import or export quotas or other trade restrictions; 




 


 




•


foreign tax
  laws and potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax
  structures; 




 


 




•


longer
  accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries, whether due to
  cultural, exchange rate or other factors; 




 


 




•


changes in
  regulatory requirements in international markets in which we operate; 




 


 




•


inquiries
  into possible improprieties in our international operations, such as our
  inclusion in the report of the Independent Inquiry Committee into the United
  Nations (U.N.) Oil-For-Food Programme as allegedly having made payments to
  the Iraqi government in connection with certain product sales which we made
  to Iraq under this program from 2000 to 2003; and 




 


 




•


economic and
  political instability in foreign countries. 




18



The medical device
industry is the subject of a governmental investigation into marketing and
other business practices which could result in the commencement of civil and/or
criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and/or administrative
remedies, divert the attention of our management and have an adverse effect on
our financial condition and results of operations.


In January
2005, ANS received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Office of the Inspector General (OIG), requesting documents related
to certain of its sales and marketing, reimbursement, Medicare and Medicaid
billing, and other business practices of ANS. 

In October
2005, the U.S. Department of Justice, acting through the U.S. Attorney’s office
in Boston, commenced an industry-wide investigation into whether the provision
of payments and/or services by makers of implantable cardiac rhythm devices to
doctors or other persons constitutes improper inducements under the federal
health care program anti-kickback law. As part of this investigation, we
received a civil subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s office in Boston requesting
documents on our practices related to pacemakers, ICDs, lead systems and
related products marketed by our CRM segment during the period from January 2000
to date. We understand that our principal competitors in the CRM therapy areas
received similar civil subpoenas. We received an additional subpoena from the
U.S. Attorney’s office in Boston in September 2006, requesting documents
related to certain employee expense reports and certain pacemaker and ICD
purchasing arrangements for the period from January 2002 to date.

In February
2006, we received a subpoena from the SEC requesting that we produce documents
concerning transactions under the U.N. Oil-for-Food Programme. 

On January 16,
2007, the French Conseil de la Concurrence (one of the bodies responsible for
the enforcement of antitrust/competition law in France) issued a Statement of
Objections alleging that St. Jude Medicial had agreed with the four other main
suppliers of ICDs in France to collectively refrain from responding to a 2001
tender for ICDs conducted by a group of 17 University Hospital Centers in
France. This alleged collusion is said to be contrary to the French Commercial
Code and Article 81 of the European Community Treaty.

We are fully
cooperating with these investigations and are responding to these requests.
However, we cannot predict when these investigations will be resolved, the
outcome of these investigations or their impact on the Company. An adverse
outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement
of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and/or
administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs.
In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of
additional compliance obligations. Finally, if these investigations continue
over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from
the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative
burdens on us. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome
from these investigations, could have an adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. 

Regulatory actions
arising from the concern over Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy may limit our
ability to market products containing bovine material.


Our
Angio-Seal™ vascular closure device, as well as our vascular graft products,
contain bovine collagen. In addition, some of the tissue heart valves which we
market incorporate bovine pericardial material. Certain medical device
regulatory agencies have begun to consider whether to continue to permit the
sale of medical devices that incorporate any bovine material because of
concerns over BSE, sometimes referred to as “mad cow disease,” a disease which
has sometimes been transmitted to humans through the consumption of beef. While
we are not aware of any reported cases of transmission of BSE through medical products
and while we are cooperating with regulatory agencies considering these issues,
the suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture, market or distribute
products containing bovine material, or the imposition of a regulatory
requirement that we procure material for these products from alternate sources,
could result in lost market opportunities, harm the continued commercialization
and distribution of such products and impose additional costs on us. Any of
these consequences could in turn have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. 

We are not insured
against all potential losses and could be seriously harmed by natural disasters
or other catastrophes. 

Our facilities
could be materially damaged by earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural
disasters or catastrophic circumstances. For example, we have significant CRM
facilities located in Sylmar and Sunnyvale, California. Earthquake insurance in
California is currently difficult to obtain, extremely costly and restrictive
with respect to scope of coverage. Our earthquake insurance for these
California facilities provides $10 million of insurance coverage in the
aggregate, with a deductible equal to 5% of the total value of the facility and
contents involved in the claim. Consequently, despite this insurance coverage,
we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from an earthquake near
one or both of our

19



California
facilities as a result of various factors, including the severity and location
of the earthquake, the extent of any damage to our facilities, the impact of an
earthquake on our California workforce and on the infrastructure of the
surrounding communities and the extent of damage to our inventory and work in
process. While we believe that our exposure to significant losses from a
California earthquake could be partially mitigated by our ability to
manufacture some of our CRM products at our manufacturing facility in Sweden,
the losses could have a material adverse effect on our business for an
indeterminate period of time before this manufacturing transition is complete
and operates without significant problem. Furthermore, our manufacturing
facility in Puerto Rico may suffer damage as a result of hurricanes which are
frequent in the Caribbean and which could result in lost production and
additional expenses to us to the extent any such damage is not fully covered by
our hurricane and business interruption insurance. 

Even with
insurance coverage, natural disasters or other catastrophic events could cause
us to suffer substantial losses in our operational capacity and could also lead
to a loss of opportunity and to a potential adverse impact on our relationships
with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for
them, for which we would not be compensated by existing insurance. This in turn
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations. 

Failure to
successfully implement a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system could
adversely affect our business.

We are in the
process of converting to a new ERP system. Implementation of the new ERP system
is scheduled to occur in phases through 2009. Failure to smoothly execute the
implementation of the ERP system could adversely affect the Company’s business,
financial condition and results of operations.

Item 1B