Item 1A.   RISK FACTORS 


Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere
in this Form 10-K or our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of
operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also
impair our business operations. 


We face intense competition and may not be able to keep pace with
the rapid technological changes in the medical devices industry.  


The medical device market is intensely competitive and is characterized by
extensive research and development and rapid technological change. Our customers consider many factors when choosing suppliers,
including product reliability, clinical outcomes, product availability, inventory consignment, price and product services provided
by the manufacturer, and market share can shift as a result of technological innovation, product field actions and safety alerts
and other business factors. Our competitors range from small start-up companies to larger companies which have significantly
greater resources and broader product offerings than us, and we anticipate that in the coming years, other large companies will
enter certain markets in which we currently hold a strong position. For example, Boston Scientific is in the process of acquiring
one of our principal competitors, Guidant Corporation. In addition, we expect that competition will continue to intensify with the
increased use of strategies such as consigned inventory and reduced pricing. Our sales in the second half of 2005 have benefited
from product recalls by certain of our competitors and may decrease once these competitors overcome these issues. Product
introductions or enhancements by competitors which have advanced technology, better features or lower pricing may make our
products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. As a result, we will be required to devote continued efforts and
financial resources to bring our products under development to market, enhance our existing products and develop new products for
the medical marketplace. If we fail to develop new products, enhance existing products or compete effectively, our business,
financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 


We are subject to stringent domestic and foreign medical device
regulation which may impede the approval process for our products, hinder our development activities and manufacturing
processes and, in some cases, result in the recall or seizure of previously approved products.  


Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject
to extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the FDCA, by comparable agencies in foreign countries and by other
regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDCA and associated regulations, manufacturers of medical devices must comply
with certain regulations that cover the composition, labeling, testing, clinical study, manufacturing, packaging and distribution
of medical devices. In addition, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be commercially marketed
in the United States, and the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of approved products that
have been commercialized and can prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing
programs. Furthermore, most major markets for medical devices outside the United States require clearance, approval or compliance
with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance
from the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products or with respect to enhancements or modifications to existing
products could take a significant period of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve rigorous pre-clinical
and clinical testing, require changes to the products and result in limitations on the indicated uses of the product. We cannot
assure you that we will receive the required approval or clearance from the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products
or modifications to existing products on a timely basis. The failure to receive approval or clearance for significant new products
on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 


At any time after approval of a product, the FDA may conduct periodic
inspections to determine compliance with both the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements and/or current medical
device reporting regulations. Product approvals by the FDA can be withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or
the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval. The failure to comply with regulatory standards or the discovery
of previously unknown problems with a product or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory
clearances, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the banning of a particular device, an order to replace
or refund the cost of any device previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution, as well
as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. 


15 



Table of Contents 




We may not be able to meet regulatory quality standards applicable
to our manufacturing process.  


We are required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and as a
result, we are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s QSR requirements, which require
manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation
procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever
there is evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or, if a
malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory
requirements is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European
Community, we are required to maintain certain International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications in order to
sell products and we undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we or our
manufacturers fail to adhere to QSR or ISO requirements, this could delay production of our products and lead to fines,
difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances, recalls or other consequences, which could in turn have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations. 


If we are unable to protect our intellectual property effectively,
our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.  


Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business and our
ability to compete effectively with other companies is dependent upon the proprietary nature of our technologies. We also rely
upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop, maintain and strengthen
our competitive position. We seek to protect these, in part, through confidentiality agreements with certain employees,
consultants and other parties. We pursue a policy of generally obtaining patent protection in both the United States and in key
foreign countries for patentable subject matter in our proprietary devices and also attempt to review third-party patents and
patent applications to the extent publicly available to develop an effective patent strategy, avoid infringement of third-party
patents, identify licensing opportunities and monitor the patent claims of others. We currently own numerous United States and
foreign patents and have numerous patent applications pending. We are also a party to various license agreements pursuant to which
patent rights have been obtained or granted in consideration for cash, cross-licensing rights or royalty payments. We cannot
assure you that any pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, that any current or future patents issued
to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide a
competitive advantage to us or prevent competitors from entering markets which we currently serve. Any required license may not be
available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may
have access to the same technologies as us. In addition, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect our trade
secrets or know-how or to defend them against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any legal action of that type could be
costly and time consuming to us and we cannot assure you that any lawsuit will be successful. The invalidation of key patents or
proprietary rights which we own or an unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits to protect our intellectual property could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 


Pending and future patent litigation could be costly and
disruptive to us and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  


We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant patent
litigation and, in recent years, it has been common for companies in the medical device field to aggressively challenge the rights
of other companies to prevent the marketing of new devices. Companies that obtain patents for products or processes that are
necessary for or useful to the development of our products may bring legal actions against us claiming infringement and at any
given time, we generally are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement and other
intellectual property-related actions. Among other matters, we are currently defending three significant ongoing patent
infringement actions brought against us by one of our principal competitors, Guidant Corporation. We are also defending
Intellectual property litigation is expensive and complex and its outcome is difficult to predict. Any pending or future patent
litigation may result in significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that can prevent the sale of products and may cause
a significant diversion of the efforts of our technical and management personnel. While we intend to defend any such lawsuits
vigorously, we cannot assure you that we will be successful. In the event that our right to market any of our products is
successfully challenged or if we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our financial
condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 


16 



Table of Contents 





Pending and future product liability claims and litigation
may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 


The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types we
produce entail an inherent risk of product liability claims. Our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously
ill patients, and many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long
periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of,
a patient with respect to these or other products which we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing flaws,
design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. Product liability claims may be
brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class. 


We are currently the subject of various product liability claims, including
several lawsuits which may be allowed to proceed as class actions in the United States and Canada. The outcome of litigation,
particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery
of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for
substantial periods of time. For example, in January 2000, we initiated a voluntary field action to replace products incorporating
Silzone® coating, which was used in certain of our mechanical heart valves and heart valve repair products. After our
voluntary field action, we were sued in various jurisdictions and now have cases pending in the United States, Canada, the United
Kingdom, Ireland and France which have been brought by some patients alleging complications and past or future costs arising
either from the surgical removal or, alternatively, from the continued implantation and maintenance of products incorporating
Silzone® coating over and above the medical monitoring all replacement heart valve patients receive. Some of the cases
involving Silzone®-coated products have been settled, others have been dismissed and still others are ongoing. The complaints
in the ongoing individual cases in the United States request damages ranging from $10,000 to $120.5 million and in some cases,
seek an unspecified amount, and the complaints in the Canadian class actions request damages ranging from the equivalent of $1.3
million to $1.7 billion. We believe that the final resolution of the Silzone®-coated product cases will take several years and
we cannot reasonably estimate the time frame in which any potential settlements or judgments would be paid out or the amounts of
any such settlements or judgments. In addition, the cost to defend any future litigation, whether Silzone®-related or not, may
be significant. While we believe that many settlements and judgments relating to the Silzone® litigation and our other
litigation may be covered in whole or in part under our product liability insurance policies and existing reserves, any costs not
so covered could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 


We may be unable to obtain appropriate levels of product liability
insurance.  


Problems with our products can result in product liability claims or a field
action, safety alert or advisory notice relating to the product. Our product liability insurance coverage is designed to help
protect us against a catastrophic claim. Our current product liability policies provide $400 million of insurance coverage, with a
$100 million deductible per occurrence. We cannot assure you that such insurance will be available or adequate to satisfy future
claims or that our insurers will be able to pay claims on insurance policies which they have issued to us. If we are unable to
secure appropriate levels of product liability insurance coverage, our financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected. 


Our product liability insurers may not be able to meet their
current or future payment obligations to us.  


Our present layer of product liability insurance for Silzone® claims
(which consists of a number of layers, each of which is covered by one or more insurance companies) is covered by a unit of the
Kemper Insurance Companies (Kemper), which is currently in “run off” and not issuing new policies or generating any new
revenue that could be used to cover claims made under previously-issued policies such as ours. In the event that Kemper is unable
to pay part or all of the claims directed to it, we believe that the other insurance carriers in above Kemper’s layer will
take the position that we will be directly liable for any claims and costs that Kemper is unable to pay and that insurance
carriers at policy layers following Kemper’s will not provide coverage for Kemper’s layer. If Kemper or any other
insurance companies are unable to meet their respective obligations to us, we could incur substantial losses which could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 


Our operations are subject to environmental, health and
safety laws and regulations that could require us to incur material costs.  


Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances or
wastes, particularly ethylene oxide, the cleanup of hazardous substance releases, and emissions or discharges into the air or
water. We have incurred and expect to incur expenditures in the future in connection with compliance with environmental, health
and safety laws and regulations. New laws and regulations, violations of these laws or regulations, stricter enforcement of
existing requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown contamination, could require us to incur costs or become the basis
for new or increased liabilities that could be material. 


17 



Table of Contents 




The loss of any of our sole-source suppliers or an
increase in the price of inventory supplied to us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations. 


We purchase certain supplies used in our manufacturing processes from single
sources due to quality considerations, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. Agreements with certain
suppliers are terminable by either party upon short notice and we have been advised periodically by some suppliers that in an
effort to reduce their potential product liability exposure, they may terminate sales of products to customers that manufacture
implantable medical devices. While some of these suppliers have modified their positions and have indicated a willingness to
continue to provide a product temporarily until an alternative vendor or product can be qualified (or even to reconsider the
supply relationship), where a particular single-source supply relationship is terminated, we may not be able to establish
additional or replacement suppliers for certain components or materials quickly. This is largely due to the FDA approval system,
which mandates validation of materials prior to use in our products, and the complex nature of manufacturing processes employed by
many suppliers. In addition, we may lose a sole-source supplier due to, among other things, the acquisition of such a supplier by
a competitor (which may cause the supplier to stop selling its products to us) or the bankruptcy of such a supplier, which may
cause the supplier to cease operations. A reduction or interruption by a sole-source supplier of the supply of materials or key
components used in the manufacturing of our products or an increase in the price of those materials or components could adversely
affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 


Cost containment pressures and domestic and foreign legislative or
administrative reforms resulting in restrictivere imbursement practices of third-party payors or preferences for alternate
therapies could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices which they are willing to pay for those
products and the number of procedures using our devices.  


Our products are purchased principally by hospitals or physicians which
typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans
and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate
reimbursement for their products and services from government and third-party payors is critical to the success of medical
technology companies. The availability of reimbursement affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing
to pay. Reimbursement varies from country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. After we
develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private
and governmental third-party payors. 


Major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States and
abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of cost containment incentives, combined with closer
scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased discounts and
contractual adjustments to hospital charges for services performed and in the shifting of services between inpatient and
outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, are also underway in several
countries in which we do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets
such as Germany, Japan and other countries may limit the price of, or the level at, which reimbursement is provided for our
products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. Hospitals or physicians may respond to
such cost-containment pressures by substituting lower cost products or other therapies for our products. 


Further legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international
reimbursement systems that significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or deny coverage for such
procedures, or adverse decisions relating to our products by administrators of such systems in coverage or reimbursement issues,
would have an adverse impact on the products, including clinical products, purchased by our customers and the prices our customers
are willing to pay for them. This in turn would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to
demands for price concessions or to the exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments.
 


The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and
numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in
a consolidation trend in the medical device industry as well as among our customers, including hospitals. This in turn has
resulted in greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments, as group purchasing
organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts, such as the Veterans Administration in the United States,
continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand, government
regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry,
resulting in further business consolidations and alliances which may exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products
and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 


18 



Table of Contents 




Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our
operations successfully could adversely affect our business.  


As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and
technologies, we have made several acquisitions in recent years, including our acquisition of ANS in November 2005, and we may
make additional acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts,
including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing
and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time that cannot
then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company could
also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that some of the businesses we acquire will become
profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Factors that will
affect the success of our acquisitions include: 




  
•  
  
the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or
significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; 






  
•  
  
adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental
entities of the business practices of acquired companies, such as the current investigation into certain sales and marketing,
reimbursement, Medicare and Medicaid billing and certain other business practices of ANS by the Office of the Inspector General of
the Department of Health and Human Services; 






  
•  
  
any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by
dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases;







  
•  
  
our ability to retain key employees; and 






  
•  
  
the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its
constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost savings and effectively
combining technologies to develop new products. 





Instability in international markets or foreign currency
fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations.  


Our products are currently marketed in more than 100 countries around the
world, with our largest geographic markets outside of the United States being Europe and Japan. As a result, we face currency and
other risks associated with our international sales. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to
transactions denominated primarily in euros, Japanese yen, Canadian dollars, Brazilian reals, British pounds and Swedish kronor,
which may potentially reduce the U.S. dollars we receive for sales denominated in any of these foreign currencies and/or increase
the U.S. dollars we report as expenses in these currencies, thereby affecting our reported consolidated revenues and net earnings.
We do not currently hedge our foreign currency exposure. Consequently, fluctuations between the currencies in which we do business
have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We cannot predict the effects of currency
exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of
currency exposures and the volatility of currency exchange rates. 


In addition to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, there are a
number of additional risks associated with our international operations, including those related to: 




  
•  
  
the imposition of or increase in import or export duties,
surtaxes, tariffs or customs duties; 






  
•  
  
the imposition of import or export quotas or other trade
restrictions; 






  
•  
  
foreign tax laws and potential increased costs associated with
overlapping tax structures; 






  
•  
  
longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries,
whether due to cultural, exchange rate or other factors; 






  
•  
  
changes in regulatory requirements in international markets in
which we operate; 






  
•  
  
inquiries into possible improprieties in our international
operations, such as our inclusion in the report of the Independent Inquiry Committee into the United Nations Oil-For-Food
Programme as allegedly having made payments to the Iraqi government in connection with certain product sales which we made to Iraq
under this program from 2000 to 2003; and 






  
•  
  
economic and political instability in foreign countries.






19 



Table of Contents 




The medical device industry is the subject of a
governmental investigation into marketing and other business practices which could divert the attention of our management, be
costly to us and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.  


In January 2005, ANS received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector
General, Department of Health and Human Services, requesting documents related to certain of its sales and marketing,
reimbursement, Medicare and Medicaid billing, and other business practices. 


In October 2005, the U.S. Department of Justice, acting through the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Boston, commenced an industry-wide investigation under the HIPAA privacy rule into whether makers of
implantable cardiac rhythm devices had offered improper payments or other inducements to doctors or other persons as a means of
promoting the use of these makers’ products. As part of this investigation, we received a civil subpoena from the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Boston requesting documents on our practices related to pacemakers, ICDs, lead systems and related
products marketed by our CRM business during the period from January 2000 to date. We understand that our principal competitors in
the CRM therapy areas received similar civil subpoenas. 


In February 2006, we received a subpoena from the SEC requesting that we
produce documents concerning transactions under the U.N. Oil-for-Food Programme. We are cooperating with the SEC’s request.



While we intend to cooperate fully with these investigations and are
responding to these requests, we cannot predict when these investigations will be resolved, the outcome of these investigations or
their impact on the Company. If these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of
management from the day-to-day operations of our business, impose significant administrative burdens on us and result in
additional compliance or other costs. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations,
could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 


Regulatory actions arising from the concern over Bovine
Spongiform Encephalopathy may limit our ability to market products containing bovine material.  


Our Angio-Seal™ vascular closure device, as well as our vascular graft
products, contain bovine collagen. In addition, some of the tissue heart valves which we market incorporate bovine pericardial
material. Certain medical device regulatory agencies have begun to consider whether to continue to permit the sale of medical
devices that incorporate any bovine material because of concerns over BSE, sometimes referred to as “mad cow disease,” a
disease which has sometimes been transmitted to humans through the consumption of beef. While we are not aware of any reported
cases of transmission of BSE through medical products and while we are cooperating with regulatory agencies considering these
issues, the suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture, market or distribute products containing bovine material, or the
imposition of a regulatory requirement that we procure material for these products from alternate sources, could result in lost
market opportunities, harm the continued commercialization and distribution of such products and impose additional costs on us.
Any of these consequences could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.



We are not insured against all potential losses and could
be seriously harmed by natural disasters or other catastrophes.   



Our facilities could be materially damaged by earthquakes, hurricanes and
other natural disasters or catastrophic circumstances. For example, we have significant CRM manufacturing facilities located in
Sylmar and Sunnyvale, California. California earthquake insurance is currently difficult to obtain, extremely costly and
restrictive with respect to scope of coverage. Our earthquake insurance for these California facilities provides $30 million of
insurance coverage in the aggregate, with a deductible equal to 5% of the total value of the facility and contents involved in the
claim. Consequently, despite this insurance coverage, we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from an earthquake
near one or both of our California manufacturing facilities as a result of various factors, including the severity and location of
the earthquake, the extent of any damage to our manufacturing facilities, the impact of an earthquake on our California workforce
and on the infrastructure of the surrounding communities and the extent of damage to our inventory and work in process. While we
believe that our exposure to significant losses from a California earthquake could be partially mitigated by our ability to
manufacture some of our CRM products at our Swedish manufacturing facility, the losses could have a material adverse effect on our
business for an indeterminate period of time before this manufacturing transition is complete and operates without significant
problem. Furthermore, our manufacturing facility in Puerto Rico may suffer damage as a result of hurricanes which are frequent in
the Caribbean and which could result in lost production and additional expenses to us to the extent any such damage is not fully
covered by our hurricane and business interruption insurance. 


20 



Table of Contents 




Even with insurance coverage, natural disasters or other catastrophic events
could cause us to suffer substantial losses in our operational capacity and could also lead to a loss of opportunity and to a
potential adverse impact on our relationships with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for
them, for which we would not be compensated by existing insurance. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. 


Item 1B