.RISK FACTORSOur business faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form 10-K or our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We face intense competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the medical devices industry. The medical device market is intensely competitive and is characterized by extensive research and development and rapid technological change. Our customers consider many factors when choosing suppliers, including product reliability, clinical outcomes, product availability, breadth of product portfolio, inventory consignment, price and product services provided by the manufacturer, and market share can shift as a result of technological innovation and other business factors. Major shifts in industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems, physician advisories and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of product quality in the medical device industry, and any quality problems with our processes, goods and services could harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and erode our competitive advantage, sales and market share. Our competitors range from small start-up companies to larger companies which have significantly greater resources and broader product offerings than us, and we anticipate that in the coming years, other large companies will enter certain markets in which we currently hold a strong position. Furthermore, our industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. Certain of our competitors have been able to expand their portfolio of products and services through this consolidation process, and they are able to offer customers a broader array of products and services than we can, thereby, in some instances, providing them a competitive advantage in the market. In addition, we expect that competition will continue to intensify with the increased use of strategies such as consigned inventory, and we have seen increasing price competition as a result of managed care, consolidation among healthcare providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates. Product introductions or enhancements by competitors which have advanced technology, better features or lower pricing may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. As a result, we will be required to devote continued efforts and financial resources to bring our products under development to market, enhance our existing products and develop new products for the medical marketplace. If we fail to develop new products, enhance existing products or compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected.We are subject to stringent domestic and foreign medical device regulation and any adverse regulatory action may materially adversely affect our financial condition and business operations. We are subject to rigorous regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. To varying degrees, each of these authorities monitors and enforces our compliance with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, clinical study, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing and distribution of our medical devices. These laws and regulations are subject to change and to evolving interpretations which could increase costs, prevent or delay future device clearance or approvals, or otherwise adversely affect our ability to market currently cleared or approved devices.  The process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA and comparable foreign bodies for new products, or for enhancements or modifications to existing products, could:•take a significant amount of time,•require the expenditure of substantial resources,•involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, as well as increased post-market surveillance,•involve modifications, repairs or replacements of our products, and•result in limitations on the indicated uses of our products. We cannot be certain that new medical devices or new uses for existing medical devices will be cleared or approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies in a timely or cost-effective manner, if cleared or approved at all. In addition, the FDA may require post-market testing and surveillance and may, depending on the results, prevent or limit further marketing of products. The failure to receive approval or clearance for significant new 23products or modifications to existing products or the receipt of an approval of limited or reduced scope could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Both before and after a product is commercially released, we have ongoing responsibilities under the FDCA and FDA regulations, which govern virtually all aspects of a medical device’s design, development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record keeping, adverse event reporting, sale, promotion, distribution and shipping. Compliance with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA, which may result in observations on Form 483, and in some cases warning letters, that require corrective action.  If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could:•require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risk of substantial harm to public health;•order us to recall, repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device that we manufactured or distributed;•detain, seize or ban adulterated or misbranded medical devices;•refuse to provide us with documents necessary to export our products;•refuse requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA of new products or new intended uses;•withdraw 510(k) clearances or PMAs that are already granted;•impose operating restrictions, including requiring a partial or total shutdown of production;•enjoin or restrain conduct resulting in violations of applicable law pertaining to medical devices; and/or•assess criminal or civil penalties against us or our officers and employees.Any adverse regulatory action, depending on its magnitude, may restrict us from effectively manufacturing, marketing and selling our products. In addition, negative publicity and product liability claims resulting from any adverse regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.In addition, the FDCA permits device manufacturers to promote products solely for the uses and indications set forth in the approved product labeling. The U.S. Department of Justice has initiated a number of enforcement actions against manufacturers that promote products for “off-label” uses, alleging, among other things, that “off-label” promotion caused the submission of false and fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal health care programs in violation of the Federal False Claims Act. Government enforcement action can result in substantial fines, penalties, and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs and entry into Corporate Integrity Agreements (CIAs) with governmental agencies entailing significant additional obligations and costs.Foreign governmental regulations have become increasingly stringent and more common, and we may become subject to even more rigorous regulation by foreign governmental authorities in the future. Changes in clearance, approvals or standards that must be complied with prior to commercial marketing or the enactment of additional laws or regulations may cause delays in or prevent the marketing of a product. Penalties for a company's noncompliance with foreign governmental regulation could be severe, including revocation or suspension of a company's business license and criminal sanctions. Any domestic or foreign governmental medical device law or regulation imposed in the future may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations.Our products are continually the subject of clinical trials conducted by us, our competitors or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or perceived as unfavorable by the market, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products and new indications for existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the market's or FDA's perception of this clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, the size of the markets in which we participate, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our business, financial condition and results of operations.  24Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be significantly and adversely affected by recent healthcare reform legislation and other administration and legislative proposals.The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively PPACA), was enacted into law in 2010. As a U.S.-headquartered company with significant sales in the United States, this healthcare reform law has had, and is expected to continue to have, a material impact on us and on the U.S. healthcare system, more generally. Beginning in 2013, the law levied a 2.3% excise tax on the majority of our U.S. medical device sales, which has materially impacted our cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, the law reduced the annual rate of inflation for Medicare payments to hospitals and called for the establishment of the Independent Payment Advisory Board to recommend strategies for reducing growth in Medicare spending. The law also focused on a number of Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, such as value-based payment programs, increased funding of comparative effectiveness research, reduced hospital payments for avoidable readmissions and hospital acquired conditions, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies that promote care coordination (such as bundled physician and hospital payments). It is uncertain at this point what consequences these provisions may have on potentially limiting patient access to new technologies. We cannot predict what future healthcare legislation will be implemented at the federal or state level, nor the effect of any future legislation or regulation. However, any changes that lower reimbursement for our products or reduce medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Cost containment pressures and domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors or preferences for alternate therapies could decrease the demand for products purchased by our customers, the prices which they are willing to pay for those products and the number of procedures using our devices. Our products are purchased principally by healthcare providers that typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate reimbursement for their services and the products they provide from government and third-party payors is critical to the success of medical technology companies. The availability of reimbursement affects which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new technology. After we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from governmental and private third-party payors. Major third-party payors for healthcare provider services in the United States and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased discounts and contractual adjustments to healthcare provider charges for services performed and in the shifting of services from the inpatient to the outpatient setting. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant overseas markets such as Germany, Japan and other countries may limit the price or the level at which reimbursement is provided for our products and adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products. For example, in 2010, PPACA was enacted into law in the United States and included a number of provisions aimed at improving the quality and decreasing the costs of healthcare. The healthcare reform statutes have already resulted in significant reimbursement cuts in Medicare payments to hospitals and other healthcare providers, although it is uncertain what consequences these provisions may have on new technologies. Additionally, the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) called for the establishment of a Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with reducing the federal debt level. However, because the Committee did not draft a proposal by the BCA’s deadline, automatic cuts (sequestration) in various federal programs began on March 1, 2013. Under the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 and a bill signed by the President on February 15, 2014, sequestration has been extended through fiscal year 2024. Medicare payments to providers are subject to such cuts, although the BCA generally limited the Medicare cuts to two percent. For fiscal year 2024, however, Medicare sequestration amounts will be realigned such that there will be a four percent sequester for the first six months and no sequester for the second six months.Legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international reimbursement systems that significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures using our medical devices or deny coverage for such procedures, or adverse 25decisions relating to our products by administrators of such systems on coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the products purchased by our customers and the prices our customers are willing to pay for them. Healthcare providers may respond to such cost-containment pressures by substituting lower cost products or other therapies for our products. This, in turn, would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to comply with requirements and/or restrictions relating to reimbursement and regulation of healthcare goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.As a medical device company, our operations and interactions with healthcare providers such as hospitals and healthcare professionals are subject to extensive regulation by various federal, state and local government entities. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations could result in substantial penalties and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the United States, federal laws and regulations prohibit the filing of false or improper claims for payment by federal healthcare programs (the federal False Claims Act) and unlawful inducements for the referral of business reimbursable by federal healthcare programs (the federal AKS), require disclosure of payments or other transfers of value made to U.S.-licensed physicians and teaching hospitals (the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act), and regulate the use and disclosure of protected health information (the federal HIPAA Standards). Additionally, many states have enacted similar laws that may impose more stringent requirements. Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare reimbursement programs and the delivery of healthcare goods and services. If a governmental authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Such fines and potential exclusion could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.If we are unable to protect our intellectual property effectively, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Patents and other proprietary rights are essential to our business and our ability to compete effectively with other companies is dependent upon the proprietary nature of our technologies. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive position. We seek to protect these, in part, through confidentiality agreements with certain employees, consultants and other parties. We pursue a policy of generally obtaining patent protection in both the United States and in key foreign countries for patentable subject matter in our proprietary devices and also attempt to review third-party patents and patent applications to the extent publicly available to develop an effective patent strategy, avoid infringement of third-party patents, identify licensing opportunities and monitor the patent claims of others. We currently own numerous United States and foreign patents and have numerous patent applications pending. We are also a party to various license agreements pursuant to which patent rights have been obtained or granted in consideration for cash, cross-licensing rights or royalty payments. We cannot be certain that any pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, that any current or future patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder will provide a competitive advantage to us or prevent competitors from entering markets which we currently serve. Any required license may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technologies as us. In addition, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect our trade secrets or know-how or to defend them against claimed infringement of the rights of others. Any legal action of that type could be costly and time consuming to us and we cannot be certain of the outcome. The invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights which we own or an unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits to protect our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our intellectual property, other proprietary technology and other sensitive Company data are also potentially vulnerable to loss, damage or misappropriation from information technology system malfunction, computer viruses, unauthorized access or misappropriation or misuse thereof by those with permitted access, as well as other events. While we have taken and will continue to take steps to protect our intellectual property, other proprietary technology and other sensitive Company data from these risks, there can be no assurance our precautionary measures will prevent breakdowns, breaches, cyber-attacks or other events. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition or results of operations.26Pending and future patent litigation could be costly and disruptive to us and may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant patent litigation and, in recent years, it has been common for companies in the medical device field to aggressively challenge the rights of other companies to prevent the marketing of new devices. Companies that obtain patents for products or processes that are necessary for or useful to the development of our products may bring legal actions against us claiming infringement and at any given time, we generally are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent infringement and other intellectual property-related actions. Defending intellectual property litigation is expensive and complex and outcomes are difficult to predict. Any pending or future patent litigation may result in significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that can prevent the sale of products and may cause a significant diversion of the efforts of our technical and management personnel. While we intend to defend any such lawsuits vigorously, we cannot be certain that we will be successful. In the event that our right to market any of our products is successfully challenged or if we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Pending and future product liability claims and other litigation, including private securities litigation, shareholder derivative suits and contract litigation, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The design, manufacture and marketing of the medical devices we produce entail an inherent risk of product liability claims. Our products are often used in intensive care settings with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with respect to these or other products which we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. Product liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class.We are currently the subject of product liability litigation proceedings and other proceedings described in more detail in Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements within Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." The outcome of product liability litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate monetary amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The final resolution of these types of litigation matters may take a number of years and we cannot reasonably estimate the time frame in which any potential settlements or judgments would be paid out or the amounts of any such settlements or judgments. In addition, the cost to defend any future product liability claims may be significant. Product liability claims, securities and commercial litigation and other current or future litigation, including any costs (the material components of which are settlements, judgments, legal fees and other related defense costs) not covered under our previously-issued product liability insurance policies and existing litigation reserves, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Our product liability self-insurance program may not be adequate to cover future losses. Consistent with the predominant practice in our industry, we do not currently maintain or intend to maintain in the future any insurance policies with respect to product liability. We will continue to monitor the insurance marketplace to evaluate the value to us of obtaining insurance coverage in the future. We believe that our self-insurance program, which is based on historical loss trends, will be adequate to cover future losses, although we can provide no assurances that this will remain true as historical trends may not be indicative of future losses. These losses could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.27The loss of any of our sole-source or single source suppliers or an increase in the price of inventory supplied to us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase certain supplies used in our manufacturing processes from single sources due to quality considerations, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. Agreements with certain suppliers are terminable by either party upon short notice, and we have been advised periodically by some suppliers that in an effort to reduce their potential product liability exposure, they may terminate sales of products to customers that manufacture implantable medical devices.  While some of these suppliers have modified their positions and have indicated a willingness to continue to provide a product temporarily until an alternative vendor or product can be qualified (or even to reconsider the supply relationship), where a particular single-source supply relationship is terminated, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for certain components or materials quickly. This is largely due to the FDA approval system, which mandates validation of materials prior to use in our products, and the complex nature of manufacturing processes employed by many suppliers. In addition, we may lose a sole-source supplier due to, among other things, the acquisition of such a supplier by a competitor (which may cause the supplier to stop selling its products to us) or the bankruptcy of such a supplier, which may cause the supplier to cease operations. A reduction or interruption by a sole-source supplier of the supply of materials or key components used in the manufacturing of our products or an increase in the price of those materials or components could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or limit or eliminate our ability to sell to certain of our significant market segments. The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the medical device industry, as well as among our customers, including healthcare providers. This, in turn, has resulted in greater pricing pressures and limitations on our ability to sell to important market segments, as group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts, such as the Veterans Administration in the United States, continue to consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our healthcare provider customers. We expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances that may exert further downward pressure on our product prices and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several acquisitions in recent years and may make additional acquisitions in the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management's time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: •the presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies;•adverse developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the business practices of acquired companies;•any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies' product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases;•our ability to retain key employees; and•the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company's products, achieving cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products.28We may not realize the expected benefits from our restructuring initiatives and continuous improvement efforts, and they may result in unintended adverse impacts to our business.Since 2011, we have made changes to our organizational structure to better position us for the evolving competitive, regulatory and economic environments in which we operate. These changes have included, among others, combining our several operating divisions into a single division, resulting in an integrated research and development organization and a consolidation of manufacturing and supply chain operations worldwide; centralization of certain support functions, including information technology, human resources, legal, business development and certain marketing functions; streamlining distribution methods; rationalizing plant utilization levels; and consolidating vendor relationships. These restructuring initiatives and continuous improvement efforts have been conducted in a phased approach and will continue over the coming years.  While these changes are part of a comprehensive plan to, among other things, accelerate our growth, leverage economies of scale, streamline distribution methods, drive process improvements through global synergies, balance plant utilization levels, centralize certain vendor relationships and reduce overall costs, we may not realize the expected benefits of our restructuring initiatives and continuous improvement efforts. In addition, these actions and potential future restructuring actions could yield unintended consequences, such as distraction of management and employees, business disruption, reduced employee morale and productivity and unexpected additional employee attrition, including the inability to attract or retain key personnel. These consequences could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot guarantee that these restructuring measures, or other restructuring actions and expense reduction measures we take in the future, will result in the expected cost savings and additional operating efficiency we hope to achieve. The success of many of our products depends upon strong relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals. If we fail to maintain our working relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals, many of our products may not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the professionals who use and support our products. The research, development, marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon our maintaining working relationships with physicians as well as other healthcare professionals, including hospital purchasing agents, who are becoming increasingly instrumental in making purchasing decisions for our products. We rely on these professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience regarding our products and the marketing and sale of our products. Physicians also assist us as researchers, consultants, advisory board members, inventors and as public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the development and marketing and sales of our products could suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our relationships with physicians and other healthcare professionals and other providers that use our products are regulated under the U.S. federal AKS and similar state and foreign laws. Failure to comply with the federal AKS or similar state or foreign law could result in criminal or civil penalties, exclusion from federal healthcare programs, or the imposition of corporate integrity agreements that result in significant administrative obligations and costs.   In addition, in February 2013, CMS finalized regulations to implement the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, enacted as part of the U.S. healthcare reform legislation in 2010. This rule requires us to report annually to CMS certain payments and other transfers of value we make to U.S.-licensed physicians and teaching hospitals. These annual reports are publicly available, which could impact the number of physicians and other healthcare providers who are willing to work with us on the research and development of our products. In addition, several states have implemented, and a number of foreign regulatory bodies are in the process of developing, similar transparency and disclosure laws applicable to medical device manufacturers, some of which require reporting of transfers of value made not only to physicians, but to a wider variety of healthcare professionals and institutions as well.29Instability in international markets or foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We generate a significant amount of revenue from outside the United States with approximately 53% of our revenue in 2014 coming from our international markets. Our products are currently marketed in more than 100 countries around the world, with our largest geographic markets outside of the United States being Europe, Japan and Asia Pacific. As a result, we face currency and other risks associated with our international sales. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to transactions denominated primarily in Euros, Japanese Yen, Canadian Dollars, Australian Dollars, Brazilian Reals, British Pounds, Malaysian Ringgit and Costa Rican Colon which may potentially reduce the U.S. Dollars we receive for sales denominated in any of these foreign currencies and/or increase the U.S. Dollars we report as expenses in these currencies, thereby affecting our reported consolidated revenues, profit margins and results of operations. Fluctuations between the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We cannot predict the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the volatility of currency exchange rates. While we have initiated a hedging strategy in 2015 in an effort to mitigate the effects of currency exchange rate volatility, there can be no assurance that such hedging strategy will be effective.In addition to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, there are a number of additional risks associated with our international operations, including those related to: •the imposition of or increase in import or export duties, surtaxes, tariffs or customs duties;•the imposition of import or export quotas or other trade restrictions;•foreign tax laws and potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures;•compliance with various U.S. and foreign laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Anti-Bribery Act and import/export laws;•longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries, whether due to cultural, economic or other factors;•changes in medical reimbursement programs and regulatory requirements in international markets in which we operate; and•economic and political instability in international markets, including concerns over excessive levels of sovereign debt and budget deficits in countries where we market our products that could result in an inability to pay or timely pay outstanding payables.Economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations. In recent years, the global economic downturn and credit and sovereign debt issues have caused disruptions in financial markets and deterioration in economic conditions in the United States, Europe and throughout the world. Continued global economic uncertainty and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our ability to borrow money in the credit markets and to obtain financing for acquisitions or other general corporate and commercial purposes.Instability in the global economy and financial markets can also affect our business through its effects on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior. The rate of recovery from the recent recession in the United States and other markets has been slower than historical economic recovery periods. Central Banks around the world may move to tighten monetary conditions in an attempt to control inflation. Reductions in federal spending in the United States over the next decade (e.g. sequestration) could result in cuts to, and restructuring of, entitlement programs such as Medicare and aid to states for Medicaid programs. Our hospital customers rely heavily on Medicare and Medicaid programs to fund their operations. Any cuts to these programs could negatively affect the business of our customers and our business. As a result of poor economic conditions, our customers may experience financial difficulties or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations, which may adversely impact their ability or decision to purchase our products or to pay for products they purchase on a timely basis, if at all. While the economic environment has begun to show signs of improvement, the strength and timing of any economic recovery remains uncertain, and we cannot predict to what extent the global economic slowdown may negatively impact our net sales, average selling prices, profit margins, procedural volumes and reimbursement rates from third party payors. In addition, adverse economic conditions may affect our suppliers, leading them to experience financial difficulties or to be unable to borrow money to fund their operations, which could cause disruptions in our ability to produce our products.30We continue to experience longer collection cycles for trade receivables in certain European member states, particularly in Southern Europe. There can be no assurances that additional negative economic disruptions and slowdowns in Europe may result in us not fully collecting these receivables, adversely affecting our cash flows, financial position and results of operations. Additional prolongation of the economic disruptions in Europe may negatively impact reimbursement rates and procedural volumes and adversely affect our business and results of operations.The medical device industry and its customers are often the subject of governmental investigations into marketing and other business practices. Investigations against us could result in the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and/or administrative remedies, divert the attention of our management and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Investigations of our customers may adversely affect the size of our markets.We are subject to extensive and stringent regulation by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities, who have been increasing their scrutiny of the medical device industry. We have received subpoenas and other requests for information from governmental agencies, including the Civil Division of the Department of Justice and the Office of Inspector General for the Department of Health and Human Services. These investigations have related primarily to financial arrangements with healthcare providers and product promotional practices. Similar requests were made of our major competitors. We are cooperating fully with these investigations and are responding to the government agencies’ requests. However, we cannot predict when these investigations will be resolved, the outcome of these investigations or their impact on us.An adverse outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and/or administrative remedies, including exclusion from federal healthcare programs. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. Finally, if these investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant administrative burdens on us. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations or other investigations initiated by the government at any time, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Further, governmental investigations involving our customers, such as the DOJ investigation of hospitals related to ICD utilization, may have a negative impact on the size of the cardiac rhythm management market. Our U.S. ICD net sales represented approximately 19% of our worldwide consolidated net sales in both 2014 and 2013, and any further changes in this market could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Regulatory actions arising from the concern over Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy may limit our ability to market products containing bovine material.Our Angio-Seal™ vascular closure device, as well as our vascular graft products, contain bovine collagen. In addition, some of the tissue heart valves we market, such as our Biocor®, Epic™, Trifecta™ and Portico™ tissue heart valves, incorporate bovine pericardial material. In some jurisdictions, there are laws, regulations and guidance that regulate the use of certain animal material in medical devices because of concerns about Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE), such as Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy, which is sometimes referred to as “mad cow disease,” a disease which has sometimes been transmitted to humans through the consumption of beef. Some medical device regulatory agencies have considered and are considering whether to continue to permit the sale of medical devices that incorporate certain animal material. While we are not aware of any reported cases of transmission of TSE through medical products and are cooperating with regulatory agencies considering these issues, the suspension or revocation of authority to manufacture, market or distribute products containing bovine material, or the imposition of a regulatory requirement that we procure material for these products from alternate sources, could result in lost market opportunities, harm the continued commercialization and distribution of such products and impose additional costs on us. Any of these consequences could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.31We are not insured against all potential losses. Natural disasters or other catastrophes could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes and tsunamis, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as acts of war, civil unrest or terrorist attacks, or the occurrence of epidemic diseases in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. For example, we have significant facilities located in Sylmar and Sunnyvale, California, Puerto Rico and Costa Rica. Earthquake insurance is currently difficult to obtain, extremely costly and restrictive with respect to scope of coverage. We do not currently maintain or intend to maintain earthquake insurance. Consequently, we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from an earthquake near our California, Puerto Rico or Costa Rica facilities as a result of various factors, including the severity and location of the earthquake, the extent of any damage to our facilities, the impact of an earthquake on our workforce and on the infrastructure of the surrounding communities and the extent of damage to our inventory and work in process. These losses could have a material adverse effect on our business for an indeterminate period. Furthermore, our manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico or Malaysia may suffer damage as a result of hurricanes and could result in lost production and additional expenses to us to the extent any such damage is not fully covered by our hurricane and business interruption insurance. Even with insurance coverage, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including acts of war or terrorism, could cause us to suffer substantial losses in our operational capacity and could also lead to a loss of opportunity and to a potential adverse impact on our relationships with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products for them, for which we would not be compensated by existing insurance. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Further, when natural disasters result in wide-spread destruction, or certain regions experience acts of war or terrorism, the adverse impact on the operations of our customers in those affected locations could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations in that region or on the consolidated operations of our business. Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could require us to incur material costs.Our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, particularly ethylene oxide, the cleanup of hazardous substance releases, and emissions or discharges into the air or water. We have incurred and expect to incur expenditures in the future in connection with compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. New laws and regulations, violations of these laws or regulations, stricter enforcement of existing requirements, or the discovery of previously unknown contamination could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could be material.32We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology and, if we fail to properly maintain the integrity of our data systems or if our products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially affected.We are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology for our products and infrastructure. We have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities, including the conversion to a new enterprise resource planning system. Our information and manufacturing systems, as well as our products that incorporate information technology, require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and products and develop new systems and products to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, mobile device technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards and the need to protect patient and customer information. In addition, third parties may attempt to hack into our systems or products in order to, among other things, compromise the integrity of those systems or products. If we fail to maintain or protect the integrity of our information and manufacturing systems and our products that incorporate information technology, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have difficulty manufacturing product, have problems with product functionality that could pose a risk to patients, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, become subject to product recalls, regulatory sanctions or penalties, experience increases in operating expenses, incur expenses or lose revenues as a result of a breach or suffer other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding the information capabilities of our systems and products, protecting and enhancing the integrity of our systems and products and developing new systems and products to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems or product issues will not arise in the future. Any significant breakdown, intrusion, interruption, corruption or destruction of our systems or products could have a material adverse effect on our business.If our efforts to maintain the privacy and security of our customer, patient, third-party payor, employee, supplier or Company information are not successful, we could incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation, enforcement actions and reputational damage. Our business, like that of most medical device manufacturers, involves the receipt, storage and transmission of patient information and payment and reimbursement information, as well as confidential information about third-party payors, our employees, our suppliers and our Company. Our information systems are vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving cybersecurity risks. Unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or information through fraud or other means of deceiving our employees or third-party service providers. Hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems are also constantly changing and evolving, and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. We have implemented and regularly review and update processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of secured data and to prevent data loss. However, the ever-evolving threats mean we must continually evaluate and adapt our systems and processes, and there is no guarantee that our efforts will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, misuse of data or sabotage of our systems.  Any future significant compromise or breach of our data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, third-party payor, employee, supplier or Company data, could result in additional significant costs, lost sales, fines, lawsuits and damage to our reputation. In addition, as the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, compliance with those requirements could also result in additional costs.33Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations in Puerto Rico, Costa Rica and Malaysia presently benefit from various tax incentive grants. Unless these grants are extended, they will expire between 2018 and 2026. Our historical practice has been to renew, extend or obtain new tax incentive grants upon expiration of existing tax incentive grants. If we are unable to renew, extend, or obtain new tax incentive grants, the expiration of existing tax incentive grants could have a material impact on our financial results in future periods. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as past or current proposals by the Obama administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our future results of operations. In addition, the enactment of the PPACA levied a 2.3% excise tax on the majority of our U.S. medical device sales.  Item 1B