Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Form
10-K. Currency exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. Dollar can
affect reported consolidated revenues and net earnings. We hedge a portion of
this exposure to reduce the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations on net
earnings. See the Market Risk section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations in the Financial Report included
in St. Jude Medical’s 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders and filed as Exhibit
13 to this Form 10-K. 

Seasonality
Our quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product
introductions, acquisitions, regulatory approvals, patient and physician
holiday schedules and other factors. Net sales in the third quarter are
typically lower than other quarters of the year as a result of patient
tendencies to defer, if possible, procedures during the summer months and from
the seasonality of the U.S. and European markets, where summer vacation
schedules normally result in fewer procedures. 

9



Table of Contents

Suppliers
We purchase raw materials and other products from numerous suppliers. Our
manufacturing requirements comply with the rules and regulations of the FDA and
comparable agencies in foreign countries, which mandate validation of materials
prior to use in our products. We purchase certain supplies used in our
manufacturing processes from single sources due to quality considerations, costs
or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. Agreements with certain
suppliers are terminable by either party upon short notice and we have been
advised periodically by some suppliers that in an effort to reduce their
potential product liability exposure, they may terminate sales of products to
customers that manufacture implantable medical devices. While some of these
suppliers have modified their positions and have indicated a willingness to
continue to provide a product temporarily until an alternative vendor or
product can be qualified (or even to reconsider the supply relationship), where
a particular single-source supply relationship is terminated, we may not be
able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for certain components or
materials quickly. A reduction or interruption by a sole-source supplier of the
supply of materials or key components used in the manufacturing of our products
or an increase in the price of those materials or components could adversely
affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Government Regulation

Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to
extensive and rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), by comparable agencies in foreign countries and
by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under the FDCA and
associated regulations, manufacturers of medical devices must comply with
certain regulations that cover the composition, labeling, testing, clinical
study, manufacturing, packaging and distribution of medical devices. Medical
devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be commercially
marketed in the United States. The most comprehensive level of approval
requires the completion of an FDA-approved clinical evaluation program and
submission and approval of a pre-market approval (PMA) application before a
device may be commercially marketed. Our vascular closure devices, mechanical
and tissue heart valves, ICDs, pacemakers and certain leads, neurostimulation
devices and EP catheter applications require a PMA application or supplement to
a PMA. Other leads and lead delivery tools, annuloplasty ring products, other
neurostimulation devices and other EP and cardiology products are currently
marketed under the less rigorous 510(k) pre-market notification procedure of
the FDCA. 

Furthermore,
our international business is subject to medical device laws in individual
countries outside the United States. Most major markets for medical devices
outside the United States require clearance, approval or compliance with
certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The applicable
laws range from extensive device approval requirements in some countries for
all or some of our products, to requests for data or certifications in other
countries. Generally, international regulatory requirements are increasing. In
the European Union, the regulatory systems have been consolidated, and approval
to market in all European Union countries (represented by the CE Mark) can be
obtained through one agency. The process of obtaining marketing clearance from
the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products or with respect to
enhancements or modifications to existing products can take a significant
period of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources, involve
rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, require changes to the products and
result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. 

The FDA
conducts inspections prior to approval of a PMA application to determine
compliance with the quality system regulations that cover manufacturing and
design. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to
monitor the effects of approved products that have been commercialized, and may
prevent or limit further marketing of products based on the results of these
post-marketing programs. At any time after approval of a product, the FDA may
conduct periodic inspections to determine compliance with both the FDA’s
Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements and/or current medical device
reporting regulations. Product approvals by the FDA can be withdrawn due to
failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen
problems following initial approval. The failure to comply with regulatory
standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a product or
manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory
clearances, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant expenses), the
banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund the cost of any
device previously manufactured or distributed, operating restrictions and
criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result of negative publicity
and product liability claims. 

We are
required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and as a result, we
are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s QSR
requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to
certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation
procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations
require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that
reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to
a death or serious injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements
is subject to continual review and is rigorously monitored through periodic
inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are required to maintain
certain International Organization for Standardization (ISO) certifications in
order to sell products, and we undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies
to obtain and maintain these certifications. 

10



Table of Contents

The FDA also
regulates recordkeeping for medical devices and reviews hospital and
manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experiences to identify potential
problems with FDA-authorized devices. Regulatory actions may be taken by the
FDA due to adverse experience reports. 

Diagnostic-related
group (DRG) and Ambulatory Patient Classification (APC) reimbursement schedules
dictate the amount that the U.S. government, through the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services (CMS), will reimburse hospitals for care of persons
covered by Medicare. In response to rising Medicare and Medicaid costs, from
time to time Congress and state legislatures consider legislation that would
restrict funding for these programs. Changes in current DRG and APC
reimbursement levels could have an adverse effect on market demand and our
domestic pricing flexibility. In the U.S., Medicare payment to providers is
based on prospectively set rates. CMS, which administers the Medicare and
Medicaid programs, uses separate Prospective Payment Systems for reimbursement
to acute inpatient hospitals, hospital outpatient departments and ambulatory
surgery centers. In response to rising Medicare costs, from time to time Congress
considers proposals that would reduce the annual update in federal payments to
hospitals. Reduced funding could have an adverse effect on market demand and
our domestic pricing flexibility.

More
generally, major third-party payors for hospital services in the United States
and abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of
cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of healthcare
expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased
discounts and contractual adjustments to hospital charges for services
performed and in the shifting of services between inpatient and outpatient
settings. From time to time, initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare
costs, including price regulation, are underway in several countries in which
we do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and
in significant overseas markets may limit the price of or the level at which
reimbursement is provided for our products. 

The United
States Medicare-Medicaid Anti-kickback law generally prohibits payments to
physicians or other purchasers of medical products under these government
programs as an inducement to purchase a product. Many foreign countries have
similar laws. We subscribe to the AdvaMed Code (AdvaMed is a U.S. medical
device industry trade association) which limits certain marketing and other
practices in our relationships with product purchasers. We also adhere to many
similar codes in countries outside the United States. In addition, we have in
place and are continuously improving our internal business integrity and
compliance program.

Federal and
state laws protect the confidentiality of certain patient health information,
including patient records, and restrict the use and disclosure of such
information. In particular, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
has issued patient privacy standards (HIPAA privacy standards) under the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). The HIPAA privacy
standards govern the use and disclosure of protected health information by
“covered entities,” which are healthcare providers that submit electronic
claims, health plans and healthcare clearinghouses. Our employee health benefit
plans are considered ‘covered entities’ and therefore are subject and adhere to
the HIPAA privacy standards. Additionally, our Merlin.net Patient Care Network
system adheres to the HIPAA privacy standards and the security requirements for
the electronic transmission of health information as set forth by HIPAA. Our
policy continues to be to work with our customers and business partners in
their HIPAA compliance efforts. 

Some medical
device regulatory agencies have considered and are considering whether to
continue to permit the sale of medical devices that incorporate any bovine
material because of concerns about Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE),
sometimes referred to as “mad cow disease,” a disease which has sometimes been
transmitted to humans through the consumption of beef. We are not aware of any
reported cases of transmission of BSE through medical products. Some of our
products (Angio-Seal™ and vascular grafts) use bovine collagen. In addition,
some of the tissue heart valves we market incorporate bovine pericardial
material. We are cooperating with the regulatory agencies regarding these
issues. 

Product Liability
The design, manufacture and marketing of our medical devices entail an inherent
risk of product liability claims. Our products are often used in intensive care
settings with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical devices we
manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long
periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that could
result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with respect
to these or other products which we manufacture or sell, including component
failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate disclosure of
product-related risks or product-related information. Product liability claims
may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class. 

We are
currently the subject of various product liability claims, including several
lawsuits which may be allowed to proceed as class actions in the United States
and Canada. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is
difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often
seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the
potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial
periods of time. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against
us in the future, relative to events that are not known to management at the
present time. 

11



Table of Contents

Insurance
Problems with our products can result in product liability claims or a field
action, safety alert or advisory notice relating to the product. Our product
liability insurance coverage is designed to help protect us against a
catastrophic claim. Our current product liability policies (for the period June
15, 2008 through June 15, 2009) provide $350 million of insurance coverage,
with a $50 million per occurrence deductible or a $100 million deductible if
the claims are deemed an integrated occurrence under the policies. 

Our facilities
could be materially damaged by earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters
or catastrophic circumstances. California earthquake insurance is currently
difficult to obtain, extremely costly, and restrictive with respect to scope of
coverage. Our earthquake insurance for our significant CRM facilities located
in Sylmar and Sunnyvale, California, provides $10 million of insurance coverage
in the aggregate, with a deductible equal to 5% of the total value of the
facility and contents involved in the claim. Consequently, despite this
insurance coverage, we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising
from an earthquake near one or both of our California facilities as a result of
various factors, including the severity and location of the earthquake, the
extent of any damage to our facilities, the impact of an earthquake on our
California workforce and on the infrastructure of the surrounding communities
and the extent of damage to our inventory and work in process. While we believe
that our exposure to significant losses from a California earthquake could be
partially mitigated by our ability to manufacture some of our CRM products at
our manufacturing facilities in Sweden and Puerto Rico, the losses could have a
material adverse effect on our business for an indeterminate period of time
before this manufacturing transition is complete and operates without
significant disruption. Furthermore, our manufacturing facilities in Puerto
Rico may suffer damage as a result of hurricanes which are frequent in the
Caribbean and could result in lost production and additional expenses to us to
the extent any such damage is not fully covered by our hurricane and business
interruption insurance. 

Employees
As of January 3, 2009, we had approximately 14,000 employees worldwide. Our
employees are not represented by any labor organizations, with the exception of
certain employees in Sweden and France. We have never experienced a work
stoppage as a result of labor disputes. We believe that our relationship with
our employees is generally good. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following is a list of our executive officers as of February 18, 2009. For
each position, the dates in parentheses indicate the year during which each
executive officer began serving in such capacity. 




 


 


 


 


 




Name


 


Age


 


Position




 



 



 



 



 





Daniel J.
 Starks


 


54


 


Chairman
 (2004), President (2001) and Chief Executive Officer (2004)




 


 


 


 


 




John C.
 Heinmiller


 


54


 


Executive
 Vice President (2004) and Chief Financial Officer (1998)




 


 


 


 


 




Joseph H.
 McCullough


 


59


 


Group
 President (2008), Interim President, U.S. (2008)




 


 


 


 


 




Michael T.
 Rousseau


 


53


 


Group
 President (2008)




 


 


 


 


 




Frank J.
 Callaghan


 


55


 


President,
 Cardiovascular (2008)




 


 


 


 


 




Christopher
 G. Chavez


 


53


 


President,
 Neuromodulation (2005)




 


 


 


 


 




Eric S.
 Fain, M.D.


 


48


 


President,
 Cardiac Rhythm Management (2007)




 


 


 


 


 




Denis M.
 Gestin


 


45


 


President,
 International (2008)




 


 


 


 


 




Jane J. Song


 


46


 


President,
 Atrial Fibrillation (2004)




 


 


 


 


 




I. Paul Bae


 


44


 


Vice
 President, Human Resources (2006)




 


 


 


 


 




Angela D. Craig


 


37


 


Vice
 President, Corporate Relations (2006)




 


 


 


 


 




Pamela S.
 Krop


 


50


 


Vice
 President (2006), General Counsel (2006) and Secretary (2006)




 


 


 


 


 




Thomas R.
 Northenscold


 


51


 


Vice
 President, Information Technology (2008) and Chief Information Officer (2008)




 


 


 


 


 




Donald J.
 Zurbay


 


41


 


Vice
 President (2006) and Corporate Controller (2004)




12



Table of Contents

Mr. Starks has
served on St. Jude Medical’s Board of Directors since 1996 and has been
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of St. Jude Medical since May 2004. Previously, Mr. Starks was President and Chief Operating Officer of
St. Jude Medical from February 2001 to May 2004. From April 1998 to February 2001, he
was President and Chief Executive Officer of our Cardiac Rhythm Management
Division, and prior to that, Mr. Starks was Chief Executive Officer and
President of Daig Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of St. Jude Medical.
Mr. Starks serves on the Board of Directors of Urologix, Inc., a urology
medical device company. 

Mr. Heinmiller
joined St. Jude Medical in May 1996 as a part of our acquisition of Daig
Corporation, where Mr. Heinmiller had served as Vice President of Finance and
Administration since 1995. In May 1998, he was named Vice President of
Corporate Business Development. In September 1998, he was appointed Vice President,
Finance and Chief Financial Officer and in May 2004 was promoted to Executive
Vice President. 

Mr. McCullough
joined St. Jude Medical in 1994 as a Cardiac Rhythm Management Regional Sales
Director. He became Director of Cardiac Rhythm Management Marketing in 1996 and
was named Vice President of Cardiac Rhythm Management Marketing in January
1997. In December 1997, Mr. McCullough was appointed European Cardiac Rhythm
Management Business Unit Director. He became Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Europe and Managing Director of manufacturing operations in
Veddesta, Sweden, in January 1999, and Senior Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Europe in August 1999. Mr. McCullough served as President,
International Division from July 2001 to January 2008, when he was promoted to
Group President, with the Company’s U.S. and International Divisions and
Corporate Brand and Global Marketing functions reporting directly to him. In
November 2008, Mr. McCullough also began serving as President, U.S. on an interim
basis.

Mr. Rousseau
joined St. Jude Medical in 1999 as Senior Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Global Marketing. In August 1999, Cardiac Rhythm Management
Marketing and Sales were combined under his leadership. In January
2001, he was named President, U.S. Cardiac Rhythm Management Sales, and in
July 2001, he was named President, U.S. Division, a position Mr. Rousseau
held until January 2008, when he was promoted to Group President, with the
Company’s four product divisions reporting directly to him.

Mr. Callaghan
joined St. Jude Medical as Vice President of Research and Development for the
Atrial Fibrillation Division in January 2005 as part of the ESI acquisition.
From 1995 to 2005, Mr. Callaghan served as Vice President of Research and Development
for ESI. In January 2008, he was promoted to President, Cardiovascular
Division.

Mr. Chavez
serves as President, Neuromodulation Division, as a result of our acquisition
of Advanced Neuromodulation Systems (ANS) in November 2005. From April 1998 to
2005, he served as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of ANS, when
it was a separate company and has since served as President, Neuromodulation
Division. Mr. Chavez serves on the Board of Directors of Advanced Medical
Optics, Inc., an optical medical device company. 

Dr. Fain
joined St. Jude Medical in 1997 as a part of our acquisition of Ventritex,
Inc., where he had served since 1987. In 1998, he was named Senior Vice
President, Clinical Engineering and Regulatory Affairs, Cardiac Rhythm Management.
In 2002 he was appointed Senior Vice President for Development and
Clinical/Regulatory Affairs for Cardiac Rhythm Management and was promoted to
Executive Vice President over those functions in 2005. In July 2007, Dr. Fain
became President of our Cardiac Rhythm Management Division.

Mr. Gestin
joined St. Jude Medical in 1997 as manager of cardiac rhythm management and
catheter product sales in France. He was named Managing Director of St. Jude
Medical France in 1999 and was promoted to Vice President, Northern Europe
& Africa in 2002. He was named President of SJM Europe, Middle East, Africa
and Canada in August 2004, and in January 2008, Mr. Gestin was promoted to
President, International Division.

Ms. Song
joined St. Jude Medical in 1998 as Senior Vice President, Cardiac Rhythm
Management Operations. In May 2002, she was appointed President, Cardiac
Surgery Division, and in August 2004, was appointed President, Atrial
Fibrillation Division. 

Mr. Bae joined
St. Jude Medical in 2003 and served as General Counsel and Vice President,
Human Resources for the U.S. Division. In September 2006, he was appointed Vice
President, Human Resources. Prior to joining St. Jude Medical, Mr. Bae was
Director of Litigation for Alpha Therapeutic Corporation, a biopharmaceutical
company. 

Ms. Craig
joined St. Jude Medical in May 2005 as Vice President of Communications and
served in that position until being named Vice President, Corporate Relations,
in January 2006. Prior to joining St. Jude Medical, Ms. Craig spent 12 years
with Smith & Nephew plc, a medical device company headquartered in London,
England, where she served as Director of Corporate Affairs from 2002 to 2003
prior to serving as Vice President of U.S. Public Relations and Investor
Relations from 2003 to 2005. 

13



Table of Contents

Ms. Krop
joined St. Jude Medical in July 2006 as Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary. She previously spent 15 years at General Electric (GE)
Company, a diversified industrial corporation, and served as General Counsel of
GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences, a $3 billion business acquired by GE, formerly
known as Amersham plc. 

Mr.
Northenscold joined St. Jude Medical in 2001 as Vice President, Finance and
Administration of Daig Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of St. Jude
Medical. In March 2003, he was named Vice President, Administration and in
November 2007 was promoted to Vice President, Information Technology and Chief
Information Officer. 

Mr. Zurbay
joined St. Jude Medical in 2003 as Director of Corporate Finance. In 2004, Mr.
Zurbay was named Corporate Controller, and in January 2006 he was named Vice
President and Corporate Controller. From 1999 to 2003, he served as Senior
Audit Manager at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, a global public accounting firm. 

Availability of SEC Reports

We make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments filed or
furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (the Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed or
furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Such reports
are available on our website (http://www.sjm.com) under Our Company – Investor Relations – SEC
Filings or can be obtained by contacting our Investor Relations
group at 1.800.328.9634 or at St. Jude Medical, Inc., One St. Jude Medical
Drive, St. Paul, Minnesota 55117. Information included on our website is not
deemed to be incorporated into this Form 10-K. 

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

Our business
faces many risks. Any of the risks discussed below, or elsewhere in this Form
10-K or our other SEC filings, could have a material impact on our business,
financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties
not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may
also impair our business operations. 

We face intense
competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological
changes in the medical devices industry. 

The medical
device market is intensely competitive and is characterized by extensive
research and development and rapid technological change. Our customers consider
many factors when choosing suppliers, including product reliability, clinical
outcomes, product availability, inventory consignment, price and product
services provided by the manufacturer, and market share can shift as a result
of technological innovation and other business factors. Major shifts in
industry market share have occurred in connection with product problems,
physician advisories and safety alerts, reflecting the importance of product
quality in the medical device industry. Our competitors range from small
start-up companies to larger companies which have significantly greater
resources and broader product offerings than us, and we anticipate that in the
coming years, other large companies will enter certain markets in which we
currently hold a strong position. For example, Boston Scientific acquired one
of our principal competitors, Guidant Corporation, in 2006. In addition, we
expect that competition will continue to intensify with the increased use of
strategies such as consigned inventory and we have seen increasing price
competition as a result of managed care, consolidation among healthcare
providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates. Product
introductions or enhancements by competitors which have advanced technology,
better features or lower pricing may make our products or proposed products
obsolete or less competitive. As a result, we will be required to devote
continued efforts and financial resources to bring our products under
development to market, enhance our existing products and develop new
products for the medical marketplace. If we fail to develop new products,
enhance existing products or compete effectively, our business, financial
condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 

We are subject to
stringent domestic and foreign medical device regulation which may impede the
approval process for our products, hinder our development activities and
manufacturing processes and, in some cases, result in the recall or seizure of
previously approved products. 

Our products,
development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and
rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the FDCA, by comparable agencies in
foreign countries and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies. Under
the FDCA and associated regulations, manufacturers of medical devices must
comply with certain regulations that cover the composition, labeling, testing,
clinical study, manufacturing, packaging and distribution of medical devices.
In addition, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they
can be commercially marketed in the United States, and the FDA may require
testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of approved products
that have been commercialized and can prevent or limit further marketing of a
product based on the results of these post-marketing programs. Furthermore,
most major markets for medical devices outside the United States require
clearance, approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can
be commercially marketed. The process of obtaining marketing approval or
clearance from the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products or with
respect to enhancements or modifications to existing products can take a
significant period of time, require the expenditure of substantial resources,
involve rigorous pre-clinical and clinical testing, require changes to the
products and result in limitations on the indicated uses of the products. We
cannot be certain that we will receive the required approval or clearance from
the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies for new products or modifications to
existing products on a timely basis. The failure to receive approval or
clearance for significant new products on a timely basis could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

14



Table of Contents

At any time
after approval of a product, the FDA may conduct periodic inspections to
determine compliance with both the FDA’s QSR requirements and/or current
medical device reporting regulations. Product approvals by the FDA can be
withdrawn due to failure to comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence
of unforeseen problems following initial approval. The failure to comply with
regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown problems with a
product, component or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions
of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of products (with the attendant
expenses), the banning of a particular device, an order to replace or refund
the cost of any device previously manufactured or distributed, operating
restrictions and criminal prosecution, as well as decreased sales as a result
of negative publicity and product liability claims, and could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

We may not be able
to meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing process.


We are
required to register with the FDA as a device manufacturer and as a result, we
are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with the FDA’s QSR
requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to
certain regulations, including testing, quality control and documentation
procedures. In addition, the federal Medical Device Reporting regulations
require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence that
reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or, may contain an anomaly which, if a malfunction were to
occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Compliance with
applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is
rigorously monitored through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European
Community, we are required to maintain certain ISO certifications in order to
sell products and we undergo periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain
and maintain these certifications. If we or our manufacturers fail to adhere to
QSR or ISO requirements, this could delay production of our products and lead
to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances, recalls or other
consequences, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. 

If we are unable to
protect our intellectual property effectively, our financial condition and
results of operations could be adversely affected.


Patents and
other proprietary rights are essential to our business and our ability to
compete effectively with other companies is dependent upon the proprietary
nature of our technologies. We also rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing
technological innovations and licensing opportunities to develop, maintain and
strengthen our competitive position. We seek to protect these, in part, through
confidentiality agreements with certain employees, consultants and other
parties. We pursue a policy of generally obtaining patent protection in both
the United States and in key foreign countries for patentable subject matter in
our proprietary devices and also attempt to review third-party patents and
patent applications to the extent publicly available to develop an effective
patent strategy, avoid infringement of third-party patents, identify licensing
opportunities and monitor the patent claims of others. We currently own
numerous United States and foreign patents and have numerous patent
applications pending. We are also a party to various license agreements
pursuant to which patent rights have been obtained or granted in consideration
for cash, cross-licensing rights or royalty payments. We cannot be certain that
any pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, that
any current or future patents issued to or licensed by us will not be
challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted thereunder
will provide a competitive advantage to us or prevent competitors from entering
markets which we currently serve. Any required license may not be available to
us on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be
non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technologies
as us. In addition, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect
our trade secrets or know-how or to defend them against claimed infringement of
the rights of others. Any legal action of that type could be costly and time
consuming to us and we cannot be certain that any lawsuit will be successful.
The invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights which we own or an
unsuccessful outcome in lawsuits to protect our intellectual property could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations. 

15



Table of Contents

Pending and future
patent litigation could be costly and disruptive to us and may have an adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.


We operate in
an industry that is susceptible to significant patent litigation and, in recent
years, it has been common for companies in the medical device field to
aggressively challenge the rights of other companies to prevent the marketing
of new devices. Companies that obtain patents for products or processes that
are necessary for or useful to the development of our products may bring legal
actions against us claiming infringement and at any given time, we generally
are involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent
infringement and other intellectual property-related actions. Among other
matters, we are currently defending a significant ongoing patent infringement
action brought against us by one of our principal competitors, Guidant
Corporation, which is now part of Boston Scientific. Defending intellectual
property litigation is expensive and complex and outcomes are difficult to
predict. Any pending or future patent litigation may result in significant
royalty or other payments or injunctions that can prevent the sale of products
and may cause a significant diversion of the efforts of our technical and
management personnel. While we intend to defend any such lawsuits vigorously,
we cannot be certain that we will be successful. In the event that our right to
market any of our products is successfully challenged or if we fail to obtain a
required license or are unable to design around a patent, our financial
condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

Pending and future
product liability claims and litigation may adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations. 

The design,
manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types we produce entail an
inherent risk of product liability claims. Our products are often used in
intensive care settings with seriously ill patients, and many of the medical
devices we manufacture and sell are designed to be implanted in the human body
for long periods of time or indefinitely. There are a number of factors that
could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with
respect to these or other products which we manufacture or sell, including
component failures, manufacturing flaws, design defects or inadequate
disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information. Product
liability claims may be brought by individuals or by groups seeking to
represent a class. 

We are
currently the subject of various product liability claims, including several
lawsuits which may be allowed to proceed as class actions in the United States
and are being allowed to proceed as class actions in Canada. The outcome of
litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or
quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very
large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss
relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time.
For example, in January 2000, we initiated a voluntary field action to replace
products incorporating Silzone® coating, which was used in certain of our
mechanical heart valves and heart valve repair products. After our voluntary
field action, we were sued in various jurisdictions and now have cases pending
in the United States, Canada and France which have been brought by some patients
alleging complications and past or future costs arising either from the
surgical removal or, alternatively, from the continued implantation and
maintenance of products incorporating Silzone® coating over and above the
medical monitoring all replacement heart valve patients receive. Some of the
cases involving Silzone®-coated products have been settled, others have been
dismissed and still others are ongoing. The complaints in the ongoing
individual cases in the United States request damages ranging from $10,000 to
$120.5 million and in some cases, seek an unspecified amount, and the
complaints in the Canadian class actions request damages ranging from the
equivalent of $1.2 million to $1.6 billion at January 3, 2009. We believe that
the final resolution of the Silzone®-coated product cases will take years and
cannot reasonably estimate the time frame in which any potential settlements or
judgments would be paid out or the amounts of any such settlements or
judgments. In addition, the cost to defend any future litigation, whether
Silzone®-related or not, may be significant. We believe that many settlements
and judgments relating to the Silzone® litigation and our other litigation may
be covered in whole or in part under our product liability insurance policies
and existing reserves. Any costs not covered under our product liability
insurance policies and existing reserves could have a material adverse effect
on our financial condition and results of operations.

We may be unable to
obtain appropriate levels of product liability insurance.


Problems with
our products can result in product liability claims or a field action, safety
alert or advisory notice relating to the product. Our product liability
insurance coverage is designed to help protect us against a catastrophic claim.
Our current product liability policies provide $350 million of insurance
coverage, with a $100 million deductible per occurrence. We cannot be certain
that such insurance will be available or adequate to satisfy future claims or that
our insurers will be able to pay claims on insurance policies which they have
issued to us. If we are unable to secure appropriate levels of product
liability insurance coverage, our financial condition and results of operations
could be materially adversely affected. 

Our product
liability insurers may refuse to cover certain losses on the grounds that such
losses are outside the scope of our product liability insurance policies or may
agree that such losses are covered losses, but may not be able to meet their
current or future payment obligations to us. 

One of our
product liability insurers has filed suits seeking court orders declaring that
they are not required to provide coverage for some of the costs we have
incurred or may incur in the future in the Silzone® litigation described above.
This insurer, as well as other insurers from whom we have purchased product
liability insurance, may deny coverage of these and other past and/or future
losses relating to our products on the grounds that such losses are outside the
scope of coverage of our insurance policies. To the extent that we suffer
losses that are outside of the scope of coverage of our product liability
insurance policies, those losses may have an adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

16



Table of Contents

Our remaining
product liability insurance for Silzone® claims consists of a number of layers,
each of which is covered by one or more insurance companies. Part of our final
layer of insurance is covered by a unit of the Kemper Insurance Companies
(Kemper), which is currently in “run off” and not issuing new policies or
generating any new revenue that could be used to cover claims made under
previously-issued policies such as ours. In the event that Kemper is unable to
pay part or all of the claims directed to it, we believe that the other
insurance carriers in Kemper’s layer will take the position that we will be
directly liable for any claims and costs that Kemper is unable to pay and that
the other insurance carriers in that layer will not provide coverage for
Kemper’s portion. If Kemper or any other insurance companies are unable to meet
their respective obligations to us, we could incur substantial losses which
could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations. 

The loss of any of
our sole-source suppliers or an increase in the price of inventory supplied to
us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. 

We purchase
certain supplies used in our manufacturing processes from single sources due to
quality considerations, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory
requirements. Agreements with certain suppliers are terminable by either party
upon short notice and we have been advised periodically by some suppliers that
in an effort to reduce their potential product liability exposure, they may
terminate sales of products to customers that manufacture implantable medical
devices. While some of these suppliers have modified their positions and have indicated
a willingness to continue to provide a product temporarily until an alternative
vendor or product can be qualified (or even to reconsider the supply
relationship), where a particular single-source supply relationship is
terminated, we may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers
for certain components or materials quickly. This is largely due to the FDA
approval system, which mandates validation of materials prior to use in our
products, and the complex nature of manufacturing processes employed by many
suppliers. In addition, we may lose a sole-source supplier due to, among other
things, the acquisition of such a supplier by a competitor (which may cause the
supplier to stop selling its products to us) or the bankruptcy of such a supplier,
which may cause the supplier to cease operations. A reduction or interruption
by a sole-source supplier of the supply of materials or key components used in
the manufacturing of our products or an increase in the price of those
materials or components could adversely affect our business, financial
condition and results of operations. 

Cost containment
pressures and domestic and foreign legislative or administrative reforms
resulting in restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors or preferences
for alternate therapies could decrease the demand for products purchased by our
customers, the prices which they are willing to pay for those products and the
number of procedures using our devices. 

Our products
are purchased principally by healthcare providers that typically bill various
third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and
Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for the healthcare
services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain
appropriate reimbursement for their services and the products they provide from
government and third-party payors is critical to the success of medical
technology companies. The availability of reimbursement affects which products
customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies
from country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new
technology. After we develop a promising new product, we may find limited
demand for the product unless reimbursement approval is obtained from private
and governmental third-party payors. 

Major
third-party payors for healthcare provider services in the United States and
abroad continue to work to contain healthcare costs. The introduction of cost
containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of healthcare
expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in
increased discounts and contractual adjustments to healthcare provider charges
for services performed and in the shifting of services between inpatient and
outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs,
including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we
do business. Implementation of healthcare reforms in the United States and in significant
overseas markets such as Germany, Japan and other countries may limit the price
of, or the level at which, reimbursement is provided for our products and
adversely affect both our pricing flexibility and the demand for our products.
Healthcare providers may respond to such cost-containment pressures by
substituting lower cost products or other therapies for our products. 

Further
legislative or administrative reforms to the U.S. or international
reimbursement systems that significantly reduce reimbursement for procedures
using our medical devices or deny coverage for such procedures, or adverse
decisions relating to our products by administrators of such systems in
coverage or reimbursement issues, would have an adverse impact on the products,
including clinical products, purchased by our customers and the prices our
customers are willing to pay for them. This in turn would have an adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

17



Table of Contents


Our failure to
comply with restrictions relating to reimbursement and regulation of healthcare
goods and services may subject us to penalties and adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations. 

Our devices
are subject to regulation regarding quality and cost by the United States
Department of Health and Human Services, including the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS), as well as comparable state and foreign agencies
responsible for reimbursement and regulation of healthcare goods and services.
Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare
reimbursement programs and the delivery of healthcare goods and services. U.S.
federal government healthcare laws apply when we submit a claim on behalf of a
U.S. federal healthcare program beneficiary, or when a customer submits a claim
for an item or service that is reimbursed under a U.S. federal government
funded healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The principal U.S.
federal laws implicated include those that prohibit the filing of false or
improper claims for federal payment, those that prohibit unlawful inducements
for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded healthcare
programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and those that prohibit healthcare
service providers seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a
patient who was referred by a physician that has certain types of direct or
indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark
law. 

The laws
applicable to us are subject to evolving interpretations. If a governmental
authority were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws
and regulations, we and our officers and employees could be subject to severe
criminal and civil penalties, including, for example, exclusion from
participation as a supplier of product to beneficiaries covered by CMS. If we
are excluded from participation based on such an interpretation, it could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

Consolidation
in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or limit
or eliminate our ability to sell to certain of our significant market segments.


The cost of
healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous
initiatives and reforms initiated by legislators, regulators and third-party
payors to curb these costs have resulted in a consolidation trend in the
medical device industry as well as among our customers, including healthcare providers.
This in turn has resulted in greater pricing pressures and limitations on our
ability to sell to important market segments, as group purchasing
organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts, such as
the Veterans Administration in the United States, continue to consolidate
purchasing decisions for some of our healthcare provider customers. We expect
that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies
and societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare
industry, resulting in further business consolidations and alliances which may
exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely
impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Failure to integrate
acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our
business. 

As part of our
strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made
several acquisitions in recent years and may make additional acquisitions in
the future. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires
significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies,
research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and
finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant
amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects.
Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined
company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we
cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or
remain so. If our acquisitions are not successful, we may record unexpected
impairment charges. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions
include: 




 


 


 




 


•


the presence
 or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the
 financial systems of acquired companies;




 


•


adverse
 developments arising out of investigations by governmental entities of the
 business practices of acquired companies;




 


•


any decrease
 in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the
 combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices,
 including price increases;




 


•


our ability
 to retain key employees; and




 


•


the ability
 of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies,
 such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost
 savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. 




18



Table of Contents

The success of many
of our products depends upon strong relationships with physicians. 

If we fail to
maintain our working relationships with physicians, many of our products may
not be developed and marketed in line with the needs and expectations of the
professionals who use and support our products. The research, development,
marketing and sales of many of our new and improved products is dependent upon
our maintaining working relationships with physicians. We rely on these
professionals to provide us with considerable knowledge and experience
regarding our products and the marketing of our products. Physicians assist us
as researchers, marketing consultants, product consultants, inventors and as
public speakers. If we are unable to maintain our strong relationships with
these professionals and continue to receive their advice and input, the
development and marketing of our products could suffer, which could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Instability in
international markets or foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect
our results of operations. 

Our products
are currently marketed in more than 100 countries around the world, with our
largest geographic markets outside of the United States being Europe, Japan and
Asia Pacific. As a result, we face currency and other risks associated with our
international sales. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations due to transactions denominated primarily in Euros, Japanese Yen,
Canadian Dollars, Australian Dollars, Brazilian Reals, British Pounds and
Swedish Kronor, which may potentially reduce the U.S. Dollars we receive for
sales denominated in any of these foreign currencies and/or increase the U.S.
Dollars we report as expenses in these currencies, thereby affecting our
reported consolidated revenues and net earnings. Fluctuations between the
currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause
foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We cannot predict the effects of
currency exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because
of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and
the volatility of currency exchange rates. 

In addition to
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, there are a number of additional
risks associated with our international operations, including those related to:





 


 


 




 


•


the
 imposition of or increase in import or export duties, surtaxes, tariffs or
 customs duties;




 


•


the
 imposition of import or export quotas or other trade restrictions;




 


•


foreign tax
 laws and potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax
 structures; 




 


•


longer
 accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries, whether due to
 cultural, exchange rate or other factors;




 


•


changes in regulatory
 requirements in international markets in which we operate; 




 


•


inquiries
 into possible improprieties in our international operations, such as our
 inclusion in the report of the Independent Inquiry Committee into the United
 Nations (U.N.) Oil-For-Food Programme as allegedly having made payments to
 the Iraqi government in connection with certain product sales which we made
 to Iraq under this program from 2000 to 2003; and 




 


•


economic and
 political instability in foreign countries. 




The medical device industry is the subject of
numerous governmental investigations into marketing and other business
practices. These investigations could result in the commencement of civil
and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and/or administrative
remedies, divert the attention of our management and have an adverse effect on
our financial condition and results of operations.  

In October
2005, the U.S. Department of Justice, acting through the U.S. Attorney’s office
in Boston, commenced an industry-wide investigation into whether the provision
of payments and/or services by makers of implantable cardiac rhythm devices to
doctors or other persons constitutes improper inducements under the federal
health care program anti-kickback law. As part of this investigation, we
received a civil subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s office in Boston requesting
documents created since January 2000 regarding our practices related to
pacemakers, ICDs, lead systems and related products marketed by our CRM
segment. We understand that our principal competitors in the CRM therapy areas
received similar civil subpoenas. We received an additional subpoena from the
U.S. Attorney’s office in Boston in September 2006, requesting documents
created since January 2002 related to certain employee expense reports and
certain pacemaker and ICD purchasing arrangements. In December 2008, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in Boston delivered a third subpoena issued by the Department
of Health & Human Services Office of Inspector General requesting the
production of documents relating to implantable cardiac rhythm device and
pacemaker warranty claims. 

In February
2006, we received a subpoena from the SEC requesting that we produce documents
concerning transactions under the U.N. Oil-for-Food Programme. 

In July 2007,
we received a civil subpoena from the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Office of the Inspector General requesting documents created during
the period from 2003 through 2006 regarding our relationships with ten Ohio
hospitals. We have received follow-up requests from the U.S. Department of
Justice and the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Cleveland regarding this matter. 

19



Table of Contents

In October
2008, we received a letter from the Civil Division of the U.S. Department of
Justice stating that we are under investigation for potential False Claims Act
and common law violations relating to the sale of our surgical ablation
devices. The Department of Justice is investigating whether companies marketed
surgical ablation devices for off-label treatment of atrial fibrillation. We
understand that other manufacturers of medical devices used in the treatment of
atrial fibrillation received similar letters. The Department of Justice’s
investigation is focused on our EpicorTM ablation devices. The
letter requests that we provide documents from January 1, 2005, to present
relating to FDA approval and marketing of EpicorTM ablation devices.


We are fully
cooperating with these investigations and are responding to these requests.
However, we cannot predict when these investigations will be resolved, the
outcome of these investigations or their impact on the Company. An adverse
outcome in one or more of these investigations could include the commencement
of civil and/or criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and/or
administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement
programs. In addition, resolution of any of these matters could involve the
imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations. Finally, if these
investigations continue over a long period of time, they could divert the
attention of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and
impose significant administrative burdens on us. These potential consequences,
as well as any adverse outcome from these investigations, could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Regulatory actions
arising from the concern over Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy may limit our
ability to market products containing bovine material. 

Our Angio-Seal™
vascular closure device, as well as our vascular graft products, contain bovine
collagen. In addition, some of the tissue heart valves we market, such as our
Biocor® and Epic™ tissue heart valves, incorporate bovine pericardial material.
Certain medical device regulatory agencies may prohibit the sale of medical
devices that incorporate any bovine material because of concerns over BSE,
sometimes referred to as “mad cow disease,” a disease which may be transmitted
to humans through the consumption of beef. While we are not aware of any
reported cases of transmission of BSE through medical products and are
cooperating with regulatory agencies considering these issues, the suspension
or revocation of authority to manufacture, market or distribute products
containing bovine material, or the imposition of a regulatory requirement that
we procure material for these products from alternate sources, could result in
lost market opportunities, harm the continued commercialization and
distribution of such products and impose additional costs on us. Any of these
consequences could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. 

We are not insured
against all potential losses. Natural disasters or other catastrophes could
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Our facilities
could be materially damaged by earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural
disasters or catastrophic circumstances, including acts of war. For example, we have significant CRM
facilities located in Sylmar and Sunnyvale, California. Earthquake insurance in
California is currently difficult to obtain, extremely costly and restrictive
with respect to scope of coverage. Our earthquake insurance for these
California facilities provides $10 million of insurance coverage in the
aggregate, with a deductible equal to 5% of the total value of the facility and
contents involved in the claim. Consequently, despite this insurance coverage,
we could incur uninsured losses and liabilities arising from an earthquake near
one or both of our California facilities as a result of various factors,
including the severity and location of the earthquake, the extent of any damage
to our facilities, the impact of an earthquake on our California workforce and
on the infrastructure of the surrounding communities and the extent of damage
to our inventory and work in process. While we believe that our exposure to
significant losses from a California earthquake could be partially mitigated by
our ability to manufacture some of our CRM products at our manufacturing
facilities in Sweden and Puerto Rico, the losses could have a material adverse
effect on our business for an indeterminate period of time before this
manufacturing transition is complete and operates without significant problems.
Furthermore, our manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico may suffer damage as a
result of hurricanes which are frequent in the Caribbean and which could result
in lost production and additional expenses to us to the extent any such damage
is not fully covered by our hurricane and business interruption insurance. 

Even with
insurance coverage, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including acts of war, could cause
us to suffer substantial losses in our operational capacity and could also lead
to a loss of opportunity and to a potential adverse impact on our relationships
with our existing customers resulting from our inability to produce products
for them, for which we would not be compensated by existing insurance. This in
turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations. 

20



Table of Contents

Our operations are subject to environmental,
health and safety laws and regulations that could require us to incur material
costs.  

Our operations
are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations
concerning, among other things, the generation, handling, transportation and
disposal of hazardous substances or wastes, particularly ethylene oxide, the
cleanup of hazardous substance releases, and emissions or discharges into the
air or water. We have incurred and expect to incur expenditures in the future
in connection with compliance with environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations. New laws and regulations, violations of these laws or regulations,
stricter enforcement of existing requirements, or the discovery of previously
unknown contamination could require us to incur costs or become the basis for
new or increased liabilities that could be material. 

Failure to
successfully implement a new enterprise resource planning (ERP) system could
adversely affect our business. 

We are in the
process of converting to a new ERP system. Failure to smoothly execute the
implementation of the ERP system could adversely affect the Company’s business,
financial condition and results of operations. 

The disruption in
the global financial markets and the economic downturn may adversely impact the
availability and cost of credit and customer purchasing and payment patterns. 

Our ability to
refinance our indebtedness and to obtain financing for acquisitions or other
general corporate and commercial purposes will depend on our operating and
financial performance and is also subject to prevailing economic conditions and
to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Recently, global
credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a
period of unprecedented turmoil characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or
sale of various financial institutions, a general tightening of credit, and an
unprecedented level of market intervention from the United States and other
governments. These events have adversely affected the U.S. and world economy,
and may adversely affect the availability and cost of financing. Disruptions in
the global financial markets and the related economic downturn could also
negatively impact customer purchasing and payment patterns and also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurances as to the length or
severity of this period of disruption and the related economic downturn. 




 


 




Item 1B