ITEM 1A.        RISK
FACTORS

This Form 10-K contains statements (including,
without limitation, statements in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” included in this Form 10-K
under Item 7) that are considered “forward-looking statements” within the
meaning of U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, State Street and its
management may make other written or oral communications from time to time that
contain forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements, including
statements as to industry trends, future expectations of State Street and other
matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts, are based on certain
assumptions by management, and are often identified by such forward-looking
terminology as “expect,” “look,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “seek,” “may,”
“will,” “trend,” “target” and “goal,” or similar statements or variations of
such terms. Forward-


 6 






looking statements may
include statements about State Street’s confidence in its strategies and its
expectations about revenue and market growth, acquisitions and divestitures,
new technologies, services and opportunities, and earnings.

Forward-looking
statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over
time, and are based on management’s expectations and assumptions at the time
the statements are made. These expectations and assumptions, and the continued
validity of the forward-looking statements, are subject to change due to a
broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the equity,
debt, currency and other financial markets, and factors specific to the parent
company and to the Bank. Factors that could cause changes in the expectations
or assumptions on which forward-looking statements are based include, but are
not limited to:

·       Economic
conditions and monetary and other governmental actions designed to address
those conditions;

·       The
performance and volatility of securities, currency and other markets in the
U.S. and internationally;

·       The
level and volatility of interest rates, particularly in the U.S. and Europe;

·       Our
ability to attract non-interest bearing deposits and other low-cost funds;

·       The
enactment of legislation, including tax legislation, and changes in regulation
and enforcement that impact State Street and its customers;

·       The
competitive environment in which we operate, including the willingness of our
competitors to reduce fees or add to their products and services to seek to
attract our customers, as well as our ability to cross-sell services to our
customers and to maintain service levels, technology and product offerings that
are sufficient to attract new customers and retain current customers;

·       Our
ability to continue to grow revenue, control expenses and attract the capital
necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory
requirements;

·       Our
ability to control systemic and operating risks;

·       Trends
in the globalization of investment activity and the growth on a worldwide basis
in financial assets;

·       Trends
in governmental and corporate pension plans and savings rates;

·       Changes
in accounting standards and practices, including changes in the interpretation
of existing standards, that impact our consolidated financial statements; and

·       Changes
in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by U.S. and
non-U.S. tax authorities that impact the amount of taxes due.

Forward-looking statements should not be viewed as
predictions, and should not be the primary basis upon which investors evaluate
State Street. Any investor in State Street should consider all risks and
uncertainties disclosed in this Form 10-K and in our other SEC
filings, including our reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K,
which are accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov
or on our website at www.statestreet.com.

In addition to factors
discussed above and elsewhere in this Form 10-K or previously
disclosed in our other SEC filings, the factors discussed below could cause
actual future results to differ materially from those contemplated by
forward-looking statements and from our historical financial results. State
Street undertakes no obligation to revise the forward-looking statements
contained in this Form 10-K to reflect events after the date it is
filed with the SEC. These factors are not intended to be a complete summary of 


 7 






all
risks and uncertainties that may affect our businesses. Though we strive to
monitor and mitigate risk, we cannot anticipate all potential economic,
operational and financial developments that may adversely impact our operations
and our financial results.

Business
Conditions/Economic Risk

Our businesses are affected by global economic
conditions, political uncertainties and volatility and other developments in
the financial markets. Factors such as interest rates and commodities prices,
regional and international rates of economic growth, inflation, political
instability, the liquidity and volatility of equity, credit, currency,
derivative and other financial markets, and investor confidence can
significantly affect the financial markets in which we and our customers are
engaged. Such factors have affected, and may further unfavorably affect, both
regional and worldwide economic growth, creating adverse effects on many
companies, including us, in ways that are not predictable.

A significant market downturn may lead to a decline in
the value of assets under management and custody, which would reduce our
asset-based fee revenue and the value of securities we hold in our investment
portfolio, and may adversely impact transaction revenue and the volume of
transactions that we execute for our customers. In addition, lower market
volatility, even in a generally rising market environment, may reduce trading
volumes of our customers, and our ability to achieve attractive spreads, which
could lead to lower trading revenues. Our revenues, particularly our trading
revenues, may increase or decrease depending upon the extent of increases or
decreases in cross-border investments made by our customers. The level of
cross-border activity can be influenced by a number of factors, including
geopolitical instabilities and customer mix. General market downturns would
also likely lead to a decline in the volume of transactions we execute on
behalf of our customers, decreasing our fee and revenue opportunities and
reducing the level of assets under management and custody.

In addition, revenues during a calendar year, driven
by the products and services we provide, can fluctuate commensurate with normal
course business activity of our customers, typically resulting in stronger
revenues in the second and fourth quarters and relatively weaker revenues in
the first and third quarters.

In recent years,
investment manager and hedge fund manager operations outsourcing and non-U.S.
asset servicing have been areas of rapid growth in our business. If the demand
for these types of services were to decline, we could see a slowing in the
growth rate of our revenue. 

Strategic/Competition
Risk

We expect the markets in which we operate to remain both
highly competitive and global across all facets of our business, resulting in
increases in both regional and global competitive risks. We have experienced,
and anticipate that we will continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of
our core businesses. Many of our businesses compete with other domestic and
international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment
advisors, broker/dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. Many
of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have
substantially greater capital resources. In some of our businesses, we are
service providers to significant competitors. The ability of a competitor to
offer comparable or improved products or services at a lower price would likely
negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  In addition, pricing pressures as a result of
the activities of competitors, customer pricing reviews and rebids, as well as
the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we
can charge for our products and services.

Acquisitions of complementary businesses and
technologies, development of strategic alliances and divestitures of portions
of our business, in addition to fostering organic growth opportunities, are an
active part of our overall business strategy to remain competitive. We may not
be able to effectively assimilate 


 8 






services, technologies,
key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our business or service
offerings, alliances may not be successful, and related revenue growth or cost
savings may not be achieved. In addition, we may not be able to successfully
manage the divestiture of identified businesses on satisfactory terms, if at
all, which would reduce anticipated benefits to earnings. Ongoing consolidation
within the financial services industry could provide opportunities and pose
challenges in the markets we serve.

Acquisitions present risks that differ from the risks
associated with our ongoing operations. In January 2007, we announced a
definitive agreement to acquire Currenex, Inc., an independently owned
electronic foreign exchange trading platform. In addition, in
February 2007, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire Investors
Financial. Our financial results for 2007 and for the next few years may be
significantly impacted by our ability to achieve the cost savings and other benefits
that we anticipate as a result of the acquisition of Investors Financial, as
well as our ability to retain its customer base and to successfully cross-sell
our products and services to its customers.

Intellectual property of an acquired business such as
Currenex may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for
such a business; however, these types of acquisitions entail the risk that the
acquired business does not own the intellectual property that we believe we are
acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent upon licenses from third
parties, or that the acquired business infringes upon the intellectual property
rights of others. Acquisitions of investment servicing businesses such as
Investors Financial normally entail information technology systems conversions,
which involve operational risks and may result in customer dissatisfaction and
defection. Customers of businesses that we acquire, including, in the case of
Investors Financial, its largest customer, are competitors of our non-custody
businesses. The loss of some of these customers or a significant reduction in
revenues generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, would adversely
affect the benefits that we expect to achieve from the acquisition.

In connection with most acquisitions, before the
acquisition can be completed, we must obtain various regulatory approvals or
consents, which approvals may include the Federal Reserve Board, the
Massachusetts Commissioner of Banking and other domestic and foreign regulatory
authorities. These regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the
completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms. Although we
would not enter into a transaction anticipating materially adverse regulatory
conditions, such conditions may be imposed, or we may experience regulatory
delays that limit the benefits of the transaction.

With any acquisition, the integration of the
operations and resources of the two businesses could result in the loss of key
employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company’s ongoing businesses,
or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that could
adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with clients, customers,
and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.
Integration efforts may also divert management attention and resources. Where
we acquire a business and combine it with our operations, we are also exposed
to risks of unknown or contingent liabilities as to which we may have no
recourse against the seller. While we normally seek to mitigate that risk
through pre-acquisition due diligence, increasingly acquisition transactions
are competitive auctions in which we have limited time and access to
information to evaluate the risks inherent in the business being acquired, and
no or limited recourse against the seller if undisclosed liabilities are
discovered after we enter into a definitive agreement.

Our financial results may be adversely affected by the
accounting treatment for an acquisition. 
We may not achieve the benefits we sought in an acquisition, or, if
achieved, those benefits may come later than we anticipated. Failure to achieve
anticipated benefits from an acquisition, such as our acquisitions of Investors
Financial and Currenex, could result in increased costs and lower revenues than
expected of the combined company.


 9 






We actively strive to achieve significant cost savings
by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations,
while continuing to maintain service quality, control and effective management
of risks within these business operations. This transition to a true “shared
services” operational model focuses on certain core service offerings,
including middle- and back-office reconciliations, securities processing and
transfer agency activities. The increased elements of risk that arise from
conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an
increase in reputation risk. Reputation risk is inherent in our current
operating model; shifting business processes merely accentuates these risks
through the transition process, until such time as technology, training and
infrastructure changes are in place to mitigate the risk. The extent and pace
at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be impacted
by regulatory and customer acceptance issues. Such relocation of functions also
entails costs, such as technology and real estate expenses, that partially
offset the financial benefits of the lower-cost locations.

Our financial performance depends, in part, on our
ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or
develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost
efficiencies, while avoiding increased related expenses. The risks we face
include rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access
technical and other information from our customers, and the significant and
ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a
timely fashion at competitive prices. We proactively cross-sell multiple
products and services to our customers, which can exacerbate the negative
financial effects associated with the risk of loss of any one customer.
Developments in the securities processing industry, including shortened
settlement cycles and straight-through processing, have required continued
internal procedural enhancements and further technology investment.

Our growth strategy
depends upon both attracting new customers and cross-selling additional
products and services to our existing customer base. To the extent that we are
not able to achieve these goals, we may not be able to achieve our financial
goals. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with the
introduction of new products and services, including technical and control
requirements that may need to be developed and implemented to offer such
products while also managing associated risks. The introduction of new products
and services can also entail significant time and resources. Regulatory and
internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive alternatives
and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be
brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our customers. Failure
to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new
products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, as
well as our results of operations and financial condition.

Credit Risk

Our focus on large
institutional investors and their businesses requires that we assume credit and
counterparty risk, both on- and off-balance sheet, in a variety of forms. We
may experience significant intra- and inter-day credit exposure through
settlement-related extensions of credit. From time to time, we may assume
concentrated credit risk at the individual counterparty, industry and/or
country level, thereby potentially exposing us to a single market or political
event or a correlated set of events. The credit quality of our on- and
off-balance sheet exposures may be affected by many factors, such as economic
and business conditions or deterioration in the financial condition of an
individual counterparty or group of counterparties. If there is a significant
economic downturn in either a country or a region, or we experience the failure
of a significant individual counterparty, we could incur financial losses that
could adversely affect our earnings.


 10 






Financial Markets
Risk

As asset values in worldwide financial markets
increase or decrease, our opportunities to invest in and service financial
assets change. Given that a portion of our fees is based on the value of assets
under custody and management, fluctuations in the valuation of worldwide
securities markets will affect revenue. Many of the costs of providing our
services are relatively fixed; therefore, a decline in revenue could have a
disproportionate effect on our earnings. In addition, if investment performance
in our asset management business fails to meet either benchmarks or the
performance of our competitors, we could experience a decline in assets under
management and a reduction in the fees we earn, irrespective of economic or
market conditions.

We have increased the portion of our management fee
revenue that is generated from enhanced index and actively managed products,
with respect to which we receive higher fees compared to passive products. We
may not be able to continue to increase this segment of our business at the
same rate that we have achieved in the past few years. In addition, with
respect to certain of these products, we have entered into performance fee
arrangements, where the management fee revenue we earn is based on the
performance of managed funds against specified benchmarks. The reliance on performance
fees increases the potential volatility of our management fee revenue.

The degree of volatility
in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. In
general, we benefit from currency volatility, although it can increase risk,
and foreign exchange revenue, all other things being equal, is likely to
decrease during times of decreased currency volatility. In addition, as our
business grows globally, our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange
rates could affect our levels of revenue, expense and earnings, as well as the
value of our investment in our non-U.S. operations. Our other financial markets
trading businesses, as well as our asset and liability management activities,
are also subject to market risks. Adverse movements in levels and volatilities
of financial markets could cause losses that may affect our consolidated
results of operations and financial condition.

Liquidity Risk

We depend on access to
global capital markets to provide us with sufficient capital resources and
liquidity to meet our commitments and business needs, and to accommodate the
transaction and cash management needs of our customers. Any occurrence that may
limit our access to the capital markets, such as a decline in the confidence of
debt purchasers, depositors or counterparties participating in the capital
markets with us in particular, or a downgrade of our debt rating, may adversely
affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our
liquidity. General market disruptions, natural disasters or operational
problems may affect either third parties or us, and can also have an adverse
affect on our liquidity.

Interest Rate Risk

State Street’s financial performance could be
unfavorably affected by changes in interest rates as they impact our asset and
liability management process. The levels of global market interest rates, the
shape of these yield curves (changes in the relationship between short- and
long-term interest rates), the direction and speed of interest rate changes,
and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency and geographic mix
of our interest-bearing assets and interest-bearing liabilities, affect our net
interest revenue. Our ability to anticipate these changes and/or to hedge the
related exposures on and off our balance sheet can significantly influence the
success of our asset and liability management process and the resulting level
of our net interest revenue. The impact of changes in interest rates will
depend on the relative durations of assets and liabilities in accordance with
their relevant currencies. In general, sustained lower interest rates, a flat or
inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads have a constraining
effect on our net interest revenue.


 11 






Operational Risk

Operational risk is inherent in all of State Street’s
activities. Our customers have a broad array of complex and specialized
servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements. We have established
policies, procedures and systems designed to comply with these regulatory and
operational risk requirements. We also face the potential for loss resulting
from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervisory or
monitoring mechanisms, or other systems or controls, and from external events,
which could materially affect our future results of operations. We may also be
subject to disruptions from events that are wholly or partially beyond our
control, which could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions,
including functions such as information processing and financial market
settlement. In addition, our customers, vendors and counterparties could suffer
from such events. Should these events affect us, or the customers, vendors or
counterparties with which we conduct business, our results of operations could
be negatively affected. We use various strategies and processes to monitor and
mitigate operational and other risks. These risk management measures entail
many assumptions regarding events that are not possible to predict. As a
result, our risk management framework may not always be successful.

Our success
depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people.
Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be
intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them. The unexpected
loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material
adverse impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our
markets, their years of industry experience, in some cases, and the difficulty
of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel.  In some of our businesses, we have
experienced significant employee turnover, which increases costs, requires
additional training and increases the potential for operational risks.

We enter into long-term fixed price contracts to
provide middle office or investment manager and hedge fund manager operations
outsourcing services to customers, services related but not limited to certain
trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities,
collateral management and information technology development. These long-term
contracts require considerable up-front investment by us, including technology
and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing for the products and
services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating
margins over the term of the contracts. Profitability of these contracts is
largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our
services and our ability to control our costs and maintain the relationship
with the customer for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front
investment. Performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on
successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of
the service activities provided. In addition, our failure to meet specified
service levels may adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or
permit early termination of the contracts by the customer.

Our businesses depend on an information technology
infrastructure to record and process a large volume of increasingly complex
transactions, in many currencies, on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse
markets. Any interruptions, delays and/or breakdowns of this infrastructure can
result in significant costs. As a result, we continue to invest significantly
in this infrastructure.

Regulatory/Legal/Accounting/Tax
Risk

Most of our businesses are subject to extensive
regulation, and many of the customers to which we provide services are
themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. These
regulations may affect the manner and terms of delivery of our services. As a
financial institution with substantial international operations, we are subject
to extensive regulatory and supervisory oversight, both in the U.S. and
overseas in connection with our global operations. Our businesses are subject
to stringent regulation and examination by U.S. federal and state governmental
and regulatory agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the SEC and the
Massachusetts Commissioner of Banking, 
and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and
by non-U.S. governmental and regulatory agencies and self-


 12 






regulatory organizations. The
regulations affect, among other things, the scope of our activities and
customer services, our capital structure and our ability to fund the operations
of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy and the manner
in which we market our services. Evolving regulations, such as the new Basel II
capital framework and anti-money laundering regulations, can require
significant effort on our part to ensure compliance. New or modified
regulations and related regulatory guidance may have unforeseen or unintended
adverse effects on the financial services industry.

If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we
may be subject to fines, penalties or material restrictions on our businesses
in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred, which can adversely affect
our business operations and, in turn, our financial results. Similarly, many of
our customers are subject to significant regulatory requirements, and retain
our services in order for us to assist them in complying with those legal
requirements. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the
services that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. If we cause a
customer to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable
to them for losses and expenses that they incur. In addition, adverse publicity
and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to
comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our
ability to attract and retain customers or to maintain access to capital
markets, or could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and lawsuits.
In
recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement has increased substantially,
imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with
our operations. If this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect
our operations and, in turn, our financial results.

From time to time, our customers may make claims and
take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary or contractual
responsibilities. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in a manner
favorable to us, such claims may result in financial liability to us and/or
adversely affect the market perception of State Street and its products and
services, and could impact customer demand for our products and services.  We record balance sheet reserves for such
known and unknown loss contingencies, including litigation and operational
losses; however, we cannot always estimate the ultimate outcome, and as a
result the adequacy of these reserves to cover any settlements or judgments
into which State Street ultimately enters or to which we are subject.

New accounting requirements, or changes in the
interpretation of existing accounting requirements, by the Financial Accounting
Standards Board, the SEC, and bank regulators can potentially affect our consolidated
financial condition and results of operations, as accounting rules in the
U.S. and other jurisdictions consistently evolve to reflect the increasing
complexities of business. These changes are very difficult to predict, and can
materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results
of operations and other financial information. In some cases, we could be
required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised
treatment of certain transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement
of prior period financial statements.

Our businesses are subject
to changes in tax legislation, and the interpretation of existing tax laws
worldwide. These legislative actions may impact our business directly or
indirectly through their impact on the financial markets. In the normal course
of business, we are subject to reviews by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities
regarding the amount of taxes due. These reviews may result in adjustments to
the timing or amount of taxes due and the allocation of taxable income among
tax jurisdictions. While such changes may or may not have an economic impact on
our business, these changes could affect the attainment of our current
financial goals.

ITEM 1B