ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        







If we fail to predict demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be able to
recapture the cost of our investments.  

        Our industry operates primarily on quarterly purchasing cycles, with much of the order flow in any given quarter typically coming at
the end of that quarter. Our manufacturing
process requires us to make significant product-specific investments in inventory in each quarter for that quarter's production. Since we typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter
after we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our investment before the products resulting from that investment have
become obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict demand in the future. 

        Our
revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders in that quarter. We attempt to project future orders based in part on estimates from our major customers. Our
customers' estimated requirements are not always accurate and we therefore cannot predict our quarterly revenues with any degree of certainty. In addition, we derive a portion of our revenues in each
quarter from a number of relatively large orders. If one or more of our major customers decide to defer a purchase order or delays product acceptance in any given quarter, this is likely to result in
reduced total revenues for that quarter. 

        The
difficulty in forecasting demand also increases the difficulty in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods, resulting in inventory
write-offs, or under-produce finished goods, adversely affecting our ability to meet customer requirements and our market share. Additionally, the risk of inventory write-offs could increase if we
were to continue to hold higher inventory levels. We cannot be certain that we will be able to recover the costs associated with increased inventory. 


        Other
factors that may negatively impact our ability to recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include:



• the impact of variable demand and an aggressive pricing environment for disk drives;  
• the impact of competitive product announcements and possible excess industry supply both with respect to particular disk drive
products and with respect to competing alternative storage technology solutions such as SSDs in tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications;  
• our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which means that
we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated; 
• dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with
acceptable quality our disk drive products, particularly the new disk drive products with lower cost structures; 
• uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of our total
sales; 
• our product mix and the related margins of the various products; 
• accelerated reduction in the price of our disk drives due to technological advances and/or an oversupply of disk drives in the market
and shifting trends in demand which can create supply and demand imbalances; 
• manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our manufacturing facilities in China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore,
Thailand, the United Kingdom, or the United States; 
• limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; 

18




 

Table of Contents



• the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of producing our products and the effective price of our products
to foreign consumers; and 
• operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated nature of our manufacturing processes. 


        In
addition, the demand for client non-compute products can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for client compute products. In some cases, our products manufactured
for client non-compute applications are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, which creates a risk of unwanted and unsellable inventory if the anticipated volumes are not realized.
This potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like flash memory meeting the customers' cost and capacity metrics, resulting
in a rapid shift in demand from our products and disk drive technology, generally, to alternative storage technologies. Unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our products or rapid shifts in demand
from our products to alternative storage technologies in new client non-compute applications could materially adversely impact our future results of operations. 







Market acceptance of new product introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of
operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new products than is anticipated.  

        The markets for our products are characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology
enhancements, uncertain product life cycles and changes in customer demand. The success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability
to manage the risks associated with product transitions, the effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand and the risk that our new products will have quality
problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. Accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the ultimate effect that our new
products will have on our results of operations. 

        Historically,
our results of operations have substantially depended upon our ability to be among the first-to-maturity with new product offerings. Our market share and results of
operations in the future may be adversely affected if we fail to:



• consistently maintain our time-to-maturity performance with our new products; 
• produce these products in sufficient volume; 
• qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting our customers' performance and quality specifications; or  
• achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with these products. 


        In
addition, the success of our new product introductions is dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of supply with our OEM customers. In order for our products to be
considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. Once a product is accepted, any failure or delay in the qualification process or
a requirement that we requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until new products are introduced. The limited number of high-volume OEMs magnifies the effect of missing a
product qualification opportunity. These risks are further magnified because we expect competitive pressures to result in declining sales, eroding prices, and declining gross margins on our current
generation products. If the delivery of our products is delayed, our OEM customers may use our competitors' products to meet their production requirements. We cannot assure that we will be among the
leaders in time-to-market with new products or that we will be able to successfully qualify new products with our customers in the future. 

        We
face the related risk that consumers and businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released. If this
were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing inventory of products that may be less efficient and cost effective 

19




 

Table of Contents

compared
to new products. As a result, even if we are among the first-to-maturity with a given product, subsequent introductions or announcements by our competitors of new products could cause us to
lose revenue and not achieve a positive return on our investment in existing products and inventory. 

        If
we cannot successfully deliver competitive products, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. 







Our industries are highly competitive and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological and
market developments could harm our ability to compete.  

        We operate in markets that are highly competitive and subject to rapid change and that are significantly affected by new product
introductions, substantial price erosion and lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and customers. Should these practices continue, we may need to continually reduce our
prices for existing products to retain our market share, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 


        Our
ability to offset the effect of price erosion through new product introductions at higher average prices is diminished to the extent competitors introduce products into particular
markets ahead of our similar, competing products. Our ability to offset the effect of price erosion is also diminished during times when supply exceeds demand for a particular product. 

        Market
share for our products can be negatively affected by our customers' diversifying their sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for particular products, as well as by
our ability to ramp volume production of new product offerings. When our competitors successfully introduce product offerings that are competitive with our recently introduced products, our customers
may quickly diversify their sources of supply. Any significant decline in our market share in any of our principal market applications would adversely affect our results of operations. 

        Our
principal sources of competition include:



• disk drive manufacturers, such as Western Digital Corporation and Toshiba; 
• companies providing storage subsystems and components to OEMs; 
• electronic manufacturing services ("EMS") companies acquiring the necessary skills and intellectual property to enter the enterprise
data storage marketplace; 
• other high performance computing ("HPC") data storage providers; and 
• collaborations between in-house development teams of existing and potential customers and a combination of EMS, contract electronic
manufacturing ("CEM") or emerging technology companies. 


        We
also experience competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory, where increasing capacity, decreasing cost, energy efficiency and
improvements in performance ruggedness have resulted in competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disk drives. This competition has traditionally been in the markets for handheld
consumer electronics applications and now it also includes solid state drives ("SSDs") for tablet, notebook and enterprise compute applications. Certain customers for both notebook and enterprise
compute applications are adopting SSDs as alternatives to hard drives in certain applications. Further adoption of these alternative storage technologies may impact the competitiveness of our product
portfolio and reduce our market share and adversely affect our results of operation. 

        The
markets for our data storage system products are also characterized by technological change driven in part by the adoption of new industry standards. These standards provide
mechanisms to ensure technology component interoperability can occur and may reduce our capability for differentiation or innovation and our affected products would revert to commodity status. This
could lower the barriers to 

20




 

Table of Contents

entry
to our market away from our specialist research and development skills and enable entry for the general-purpose design skills found in some large EMS and CEM companies. Commodity markets are
driven by extremely low margins and very aggressive competitive pricing. If our market becomes more commoditized and we fail to deliver innovative value-added alternatives to our customers, we will
have difficulty competing against the larger EMS and CEM companies. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we could experience profit margin reductions or
loss of market share, which could significantly harm our financial condition. 







If we do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological changes, our results of
operations will be adversely affected.  

        Our customers have demanded new generations of disk drive products as advances in computer hardware and software have created the need
for improved storage products, with features such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and reliability and lower cost. We, and our competitors, have developed improved products, and we
will need to continue to do so in the future. Such product development requires significant investments in research and development. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete
the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be able to
successfully market these new products or that these products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. In addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may adversely impact our
ability to be successful. 

        When
we develop new products with higher capacity and more advanced technology, our results of operations may decline because the increased difficulty and complexity associated with
producing these products increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. If our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not reliable, customers may
reduce their purchases of our products and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may increase. In addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us
less competitive as compared with other disk drive manufacturers or competing technologies. 







Changes in demand for computer systems and storage subsystems may in the future cause a decline in
demand for our products.  

        Our products are components in computers, data storage systems, and consumer electronics devices. The demand for these products has
been volatile. Unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems, storage subsystems or consumer electronics devices generally cause sharp declines in demand for our products. Declines in consumer
spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. 

        While
sales to Client Non-Compute and Cloud Systems and Solutions markets are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the Client Compute market remain an important part
of our business. The Client Compute market, however, has been, and we expect it to continue to be, adversely affected by the growth of tablet computers, smart phones and similar devices and that
perform many of the same capabilities as computers, the lengthening of product life cycles and macroeconomic conditions. We believe that the deterioration of the Client Compute market has accelerated
recently, and that this accelerated deterioration may continue or further accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Additionally, if demand in the Client Compute market is worse
than expected as a result of these or other conditions, demand for our products in the Client Compute market may decrease at a faster rate and our operating results may be adversely affected. 

        The
Enterprise Storage market has been adversely affected by the growth of the utilization of NAND flash in mission critical applications. This deterioration of the Enterprise Storage
market could cause our operating results to suffer. 

21




 

Table of Contents

        Causes
of declines in demand for our products in the past have included weakness in macroeconomic environments, announcements or introductions of major new operating systems or
semiconductor improvements or changes in consumer preferences, such as the shift to mobile devices. We believe these announcements and introductions have from time to time caused consumers to defer
their purchases and made inventory obsolete. Whenever an oversupply of our products causes participants in our industry to have higher than anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more
intense price competition from other manufacturers than usual. 







Increases in the areal density of disk drives may outpace customers' demand for storage capacity.  

        The rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per square inch on a disk, may be greater than the increase in our
customers' demand for aggregate storage capacity, particularly in certain market applications like client compute. As a result, our customers' storage capacity needs may be satisfied with lower
priced, low capacity disk drives. These factors could decrease our sales, especially when combined with continued price erosion, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 







We may not be successful in our efforts to grow our cloud systems and solutions business.  

        We have made and are continuing to make investments to expand and develop our cloud systems and solutions business. Our cloud systems
and solutions business is subject to the following risks:



• the cloud systems and solutions market may develop more slowly than we expect; 
• we may not be able to offer compelling solutions to enterprises and consumers; and 
• our cloud systems and solutions business generally has a long and unpredictable sales cycle, and growth in this business is likely to
depend on relatively large customer orders, which may increase the variability of our results of operations and the difficulty of matching revenues with expenses. 


        Our
results of operations and share price may be adversely affected if we are not successful in our efforts to grow our cloud computing business as anticipated. In addition, our growth
in this sector may
bring us into closer competition with some of our customers or potential customers, which may decrease their willingness to do business with us. 







Changes in the macroeconomic environment have negatively impacted, and may continue to, negatively
impact our results of operations.  

        Due to the continuing uncertainty about current macroeconomic conditions affecting consumer and enterprise spending, we believe our
customers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand
for our products. Continuing high unemployment rates, low levels of consumer liquidity, risk of default on sovereign debt and volatility in credit and equity markets have weakened consumer confidence
and decreased consumer and enterprise spending in many regions around the world. Other factors that could influence demand include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor
and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect
on demand for our products and on our financial condition and operating results. 

22




 

Table of Contents







Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period, and
may cause our share price to decline.  


        In the past, our quarterly revenue and results of operations have fluctuated, sometimes significantly, from period to period. These
fluctuations, which we expect to continue, may be occasioned by a variety of factors, including:



• current uncertainty in global economic conditions may pose a risk to the overall economy;  
• adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the major regions in which we do business;  
• competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand;  
• delays or problems in our introduction of new products, particularly new disk drives with lower cost structures, the inability to
achieve high production yields or delays in customer qualification or initial product quality issues; 
• changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers; 
• application of new or revised industry standards; 
• disruptions in our supply chain; 
• increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies of raw materials or components;  
• the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we have and may continue to engage in;  
• changes in the demand for the computer systems and data storage products that contain our products due to seasonality, economic
conditions and other factors; 
• changes in purchases from period to period by our primary customers; 
• shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with overproduction of particular products, particularly when the industry is
served by multiple suppliers, results in unfavorable supply/demand imbalances; 
• our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and development expenses; 
• any impairments in goodwill or other long-lived assets; 
• announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by us or our competitors; and  
• adverse changes in the performance of our products. 


        As
a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenue and results of operations may not be meaningful, and that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of
our future
performance. Our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which could cause an immediate and significant
decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares. 







Because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products, our results of operations will
generally be adversely impacted during the second half of our fiscal year.  

        Sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, and therefore we expect to continue to
experience seasonality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. In particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during
the second half of our fiscal year. In the client compute and client non-compute market applications of our disk drive business, this seasonality is partially attributable to the historical trend in
our 

23




 

Table of Contents

results
derived from our customers' increased sales of desktop computers, notebook computers, and consumer electronics during the back-to-school and winter holiday season. In the enterprise market our
sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. Since our working capital needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production in anticipation of
orders that have not yet been received, our results of operations will fluctuate seasonally even if the forecasted demand for our products proves accurate. Furthermore, it is difficult for us to
evaluate the degree to which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions, particularly in
the client non-compute market, as well as macroeconomic conditions. 







We have a long and unpredictable sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions.  

        Our enterprise data storage solutions are technically complex and we typically supply them in high quantities to a small number of
customers. Many of our products are also tailored to meet the specific requirements of individual customers, and are often integrated by our customers into the systems and products that they sell.
Factors that affect the length of our sales cycle include:



• the time required for testing and evaluating our products before they are deployed;  
• the size of the deployment; and 
• the degree of system configuration necessary to deploy our products. 


        As
a result, our sales cycle for enterprise data storage solutions is often in excess of one year, and the length of our sales cycle is frequently unpredictable. In addition, the
emerging and evolving nature of the market for the products that we sell may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions. We invest resources and incur costs during this cycle
that may not be recovered if we do not successfully conclude sales. These factors lead to difficulty in matching revenues with expenses, and to increased expenditures which together may adversely
impact our results of operations. 







We may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or canceled purchases by, one or
more of our larger customers.  

        Some of our key customers account for a large portion of our disk drive revenue. While we have longstanding relationships with many of
our customers, if any of our key customers were to significantly reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would be adversely affected. While sales to major customers may vary from
period to period, a major customer that permanently discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us could be difficult to replace. In line with industry practice, new customers usually
require that we pass a lengthy and rigorous qualification process at the customer's cost. Accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new major customers. Additionally, mergers,
acquisitions, consolidations or other significant transactions involving our customers generally entail risks to our business. If a significant transaction involving any of our key customers results
in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 







We are dependent on sales to distributors and retailers, which may increase price erosion and the
volatility of our sales.  

        A substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of disk drive products. Certain of our distributors may also market other
products that compete with our products. Product qualification programs in this distribution channel are limited, which increases the number of competing products that are available to satisfy demand,
particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. As a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely on price, terms and product availability. Sales volumes through this channel
are also less predictable and subject to greater volatility than sales to our OEM customers. In 

24




 

Table of Contents

addition,
deterioration in business and economic conditions could exacerbate price erosion and volatility as distributors lower prices to compensate for lower demand and higher inventory levels. Our
distributors' ability to access credit for purposes of funding their operations may also affect purchases of our products by these customers. 

        If
distributors reduce their purchases of our products or prices decline significantly in the distribution channel or if distributors experience financial difficulties or terminate their
relationships with us, our revenues and results of operations would be adversely affected. 


        We
believe that industry demand for storage products in the long-term is increasing due to the proliferation of media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is fueling
increased consumer demand for storage. This has led to the expansion of our branded solutions such as external storage products to provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case of
disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage solutions for multiple users in home or small business environments. Consumer spending on retail sales of our branded solutions has
deteriorated in some markets and may continue to do so if poor global economic conditions continue and higher levels of unemployment persist. This could have a material adverse effect on demand for
our products and services and on our financial condition and results of operations. 


        In
addition, such retail sales of our branded solutions traditionally experience seasonal variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the first half of our fiscal year driven
by consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to winter. Additionally, our ability to reach such consumers depends on
us maintaining effective working relationships with major retailers and distributors. Failure to anticipate consumer demand for
our branded solutions as well as an inability to maintain effective working relationships with retail and online distributors may adversely impact our future results of operations. 







Our international sales and manufacturing operations subject us to risks related to disruptions in
foreign markets, currency exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles, seasonality, limitations imposed by a variety of legal and regulatory regimes, potential adverse tax consequences, increased
costs, our customers' credit and access to capital, health-related risks, and access to personnel.  

        We have significant sales and manufacturing operations in foreign countries, including manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and
customer support operations. We have manufacturing facilities in China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore and Thailand, in addition to those in the United States. A substantial portion of our
client compute disk drive assembly occurs in our facility in China. 

        Our
international operations are subject to economic risks inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the following: 



• Disruptions in Foreign Markets.  Disruptions in financial
markets and the deterioration of the underlying economic conditions in the past in some countries, including those in Asia, United Kingdom and the European Union have had an impact on our sales to
customers located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these countries.   
• Fluctuations in Currency Exchange Rates.  Prices for our
products are denominated predominately in U.S. dollars, even when sold to customers that are located outside the United States. An increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to
our customers of our products in those markets outside of the U.S. where we sell in dollars. This could adversely impact our sales and market share in such areas or increase pressure on us to lower
our price, and adversely impact our profit margins. A weakened dollar could increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital
expenditures. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other
things, entering into foreign currency 

25




 

Table of Contents




forward
exchange contracts. However, these contracts may not cover our full exposure and subject us to certain counterparty credit risks. See "Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
About Market Risk-Foreign Currency Exchange Risk" of this report for additional information about our foreign currency exchange risk.  



• Longer Payment Cycles.  Our customers outside of the
United States are often allowed longer time periods for payment than our U.S. customers. This increases the risk of nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition of particular
customers may worsen during the course of the payment period.   
• Seasonality.  Seasonal reductions in the business
activities of our customers during the summer months, particularly in Europe, typically result in lower earnings during those periods.   
• Legal and Regulatory Limitations.  Our international
operations are affected by limitations on imports, tariffs, duties, currency exchange control regulations, price controls, export control laws, including the trade and economic sanctions administered
by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and other restraints on trade. In addition, the governments of many countries, including China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore and Thailand, in which we
have significant operating assets, have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies and international trade. Although we have implemented
policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate these or other applicable laws and regulations to which we
may be subject. Violations of these laws and regulations could lead to significant penalties, including restraints on our export or import privileges, monetary fines, criminal proceedings and
regulatory or other actions that could materially adversely affect our results of operations.   
• Potential Adverse Tax Consequences.  Our international
operations create a risk of potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by our subsidiaries. In addition, our taxable income in any jurisdiction
is dependent upon acceptance of our operational practices and intercompany transfer pricing by local tax authorities as being on an arm's length basis. Due to inconsistencies in application of the
arm's length standard among taxing authorities, as well as a lack of adequate treaty-based protection, transfer pricing challenges by tax authorities could, if successful, substantially increase our
income tax expense. We are subject to tax audits around the world, and are under audit in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional income tax against us. Although we believe
our tax positions are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits could be materially different from our recorded income tax provisions and accruals. The ultimate results of an audit could have
a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made and could result in increases to our overall tax expense in subsequent
periods. In light of the ongoing fiscal challenges many countries are facing, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue.
In addition, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's Base Erosion and Profit Shifting recommendations are reshaping international tax rules in numerous countries. These actual and
potential changes in the relevant tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals along with potential changes in accounting and other laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and
interpretations could increase the risk of double taxation, cause increased tax audit activity, and could impact our effective tax rate.   
• Increased Costs.  The shipping and transportation costs
associated with our international operations are typically higher than those associated with our U.S. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins in some foreign countries.  
• Credit and Access to Capital Risks.  Our international
customers could have reduced access to working capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending resulting from contractions in the 

26




 

Table of Contents




money
supply or the deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition, or the inability to access other financing.  



• Global Health Outbreaks.  The occurrence of a pandemic
disease may adversely impact our operations, and some of our key customers. Such diseases could also potentially disrupt the timeliness and reliability of the distribution network we rely on. 


         Access to Personnel.    There is substantial competition for qualified and capable personnel in certain jurisdictions in which we operate,
including
China, which may make it difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified employees in sufficient numbers. Increased difficulty in recruiting or retaining sufficient and adequate personnel in our
international operations may lead to increased manufacturing and employment compensation costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 








We could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability,
reputational harm, and other serious negative consequences if we sustain cyber-attacks or other data security breaches that disrupt our operations or result in the dissemination of proprietary or
confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties.  

        Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment and the electronic data stored in our databases from
damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, employee misconduct, physical or electronic
break-ins, cyber-attacks, or similar events or disruptions. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our operations. In addition, our
outsourcing services and cloud computing businesses routinely process, store, and transmit large amounts of data for our customers and vendors, including sensitive and personally identifiable
information. As our operations become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will increase. We have been, and will likely continue to
be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, cyber-attacks, or other computer-related attempts to breach the information technology ("IT") systems we use for these purposes. We may also
be subject to IT system failures and network disruptions due to these factors. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or
compromise our confidential information or that of third-parties, create system disruptions, or cause shutdowns. Computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms,
and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and
applications that we produce or procure from third-parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the
system. 

        The
costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. System redundancy may be
ineffective or
inadequate, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of
service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. We could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing
services or other IT solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of
proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers or other third-parties, could expose us, our vendors and customers, or other third-parties affected to a risk of
loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, we rely in certain limited
capacities on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. 

27






<A
NAME="page_de47001_1_28"> 
  








































Table of Contents 

        We are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the U.S. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of user data. In many cases, these
laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial
relations. Our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to
notify vendors, customers or employees of a data security breach. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and
protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards, or contractual obligations. These laws, protocols and standards continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
Complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. If we fail to comply with applicable federal,
state or international privacy-related or data protection laws we may be subject to proceedings by governmental entities and incur penalties or significant legal liability. 







If we do not control our fixed costs, we will not be able to compete effectively in our industry.  

        We continually seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. We are focused on increasing workforce
flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills, worldwide. Our strategy involves, to a substantial
degree, increasing revenue and product volume while at the same time controlling operating expenses. If we do not control our operating expenses, our ability to compete in the marketplace may be
impaired. In the past, activities to reduce operating costs have included closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel reductions and efforts to increase automation. 







If we experience shortages or delays in the receipt of, or cost increases in, critical components,
equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production delays and other material adverse effects.  

        The cost, quality and supply of components, subassemblies, certain equipment and raw materials used to manufacture our products and key
components like recording media and heads are critical to our success. The equipment we use to manufacture our products and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few suppliers and the
lead times required to obtain manufacturing equipment can be significant. Particularly important for our products include read/write heads, aluminum or glass substrates for recording media, ASICs,
spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. 

        We
rely on sole suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of these components that we do not manufacture, including aluminum and glass substrates, read/write heads, ASICs,
spindle motors, printed circuit boards, and suspension assemblies. Many of such component suppliers are geographically concentrated, in particular, in Thailand, which makes our supply chain more
vulnerable to regional disruptions such as the severe flooding in Thailand in October 2011, which had a material impact on the production and availability of many components. If our vendors for these
components are unable to meet our cost, quality, and supply requirements, we could experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of
operations. 

        Certain
rare earth elements are critical in the manufacture of our products. We purchase components that contain rare earth elements from a number of countries, including the People's
Republic of China. We cannot predict whether any nation will impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon the rare earth elements incorporated into our products that would restrict the worldwide
supply of such metals or increase their cost. We have experienced increased costs and production delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or sufficient quantities of some
components, and/or have been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment or raw materials that were in short supply in the
industry in general. If any
major supplier were to restrict the supply available to us or increase the cost of the rare earth elements used in our products, we 

28




 

Table of Contents

could
experience a shortage in supply or an increase in production costs, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 

        Consolidation
among component manufacturers has resulted and may continue to result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or not making sufficient investments in research
to develop new components. 

        If
there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with, critical components, equipment or raw materials, then:



• it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our
operating margin would decline; 
• we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered products
more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return on these products; 
• we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to certain of our products and ship less of others, which could reduce our
revenues and could cause us to lose sales to customers who could purchase more of their required products from manufacturers that either did not experience these shortages or delays or that made
different allocations; and 
• we might be late in shipping products, causing potential customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing our revenue
and operating margin to decline. 


        We
cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical components in a timely and economic manner. 

        We
often aim to lead the market in new technology deployments and leverage unique and customized technology from single source suppliers who are early adopters in the emerging market.
Our options in supplier selection in these cases are limited and the supplier based technology may consequently be single sourced until wider adoption of the technology occurs and any necessary
licenses become available. In such cases any technical issues in the supplier's technology may cause us to delay shipments of our new technology deployments and therefore harm our financial position. 







If revenues fall or customer demand decreases significantly, we may not meet all of our purchase
commitments to certain suppliers.  

        From time to time, we enter into long-term, non-cancelable purchase commitments or make large up-front investments with certain
suppliers in order to secure certain components or technologies for the production of our products or to supplement our internal manufacturing capacity for certain components. If our actual revenues
in the future are lower than our projections or if customer demand decreases significantly below our projections, we may not meet all of our purchase commitments with these suppliers. As a result, it
is possible that our revenues will not be sufficient to recoup our up-front investments, in which case we will have to shift output from our internal manufacturing facilities to these suppliers or
make penalty-type payments under these contracts. 







Conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply
and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products.  

        In August 2012, the SEC adopted rules establishing additional disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of specified
minerals, or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured. These rules will require us to determine, disclose and
report whether or not such conflict minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. The most recent report was filed on May 27, 2016. These rules could
affect our ability to source certain materials used in our products at competitive prices and 

29




 

Table of Contents

could
impact the availability of certain minerals used in the manufacture of our products, including gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers of "conflict
free" minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary conflict free minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Our customers, including our OEM customers, may
require that our products be free of conflict minerals, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to procure conflict free minerals at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to
pass through any increased costs associated with meeting these demands. Additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently
verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. We may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers
if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. We expect that there may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements,
such as costs related to determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs related to possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of
such verification and disclosure requirements. 







The loss of key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects.  

        Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing,
sales and product development personnel. The loss of one or more of our key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe our
future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product development personnel. We have
experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining
personnel in the future. 







Due to the complexity of our products, some defects may only become detectable after deployment.  

        Our products are highly complex and are designed to operate in and form part of larger complex networks and storage systems. Defects in
our products, or in the networks and systems of which they form a part, directly or indirectly, have resulted in and may in the future result in:



• increased costs and product delays until complex solution level interoperability issues are resolved;  
• costs associated with the remediation of any problems attributable to our products;  
• loss of or delays in revenues; 
• loss of customers; 
• failure to achieve market acceptance and loss of market share; 
• increased service and warranty costs; and 
• increased insurance costs. 


        Defects
in our products could also result in legal actions by our customers for property damage, injury or death. Product liability claims could exceed the level of insurance coverage
that we have obtained to cover defects in our products. Any significant uninsured claims could significantly harm our financial condition. 







Political events, war, terrorism, natural disasters, public health issues and other circumstances
could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  


        War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, natural disasters, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and
could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global 

30




 

Table of Contents

economy,
and thus could have a strong negative effect on our business, our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. Our business operations are subject to interruption by
natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. Such events
could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers, or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and
inefficiencies in our supply chain. In the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations and our financial condition and operating results
could be materially adversely affected. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations
in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in our operations and some of our key
customers. 

        Macroeconomic
developments like the withdrawal of United Kingdom from the European Union, the debt crisis in certain countries in the European Union and slowing economies in parts of
Asia and South America could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. A general weakening of, and related
declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their IT budgets or be unable to fund
hardware systems, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and
services. 







Failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse
effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

        The sale and manufacturing of products in certain states and countries may subject us and our suppliers to state, federal and
international laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous
substances and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, restrictions on the presence of certain substances in electronic products and the responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or
recycling. We endeavor to ensure that we and our suppliers comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations, however, compliance may increase our operating costs and otherwise impact
future financial results. If additional or more stringent requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur additional operating costs and capital expenditures. If we fail to comply with
applicable environmental laws, regulations, initiatives, or standards of conduct, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could be subject to fines, penalties and possible prohibition
of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation, which could result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or
results of operations. 







Any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these
actions may adversely affect our business.  

        On June 27, 2016 and July 11, 2016 we announced restructuring plans to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal
year 2017. In addition, management will continue to evaluate our global footprint and cost structure, and additional restructuring plans are expected to be formalized. As a result of our
restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Any cost-cutting measures could
impact employee retention. In addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and global footprint consolidation will be successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional
costs will not offset any such reductions or global footprint consolidation. If our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our
result of operations may suffer. 

31




 

Table of Contents







Our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards might be limited.  

        The use of a portion of our U.S. net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is subject to annual limitations pursuant to U.S. tax
law. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss or tax credit carryforwards that might be used to offset taxable
income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in ownership. As a result, future changes in ownership could put further limitations on the availability of our net operating loss or tax
credit carryforwards. 







Deterioration in global credit and financial market conditions could negatively impact the value of
our current portfolio of cash equivalents or short-term investments and our ability to meet our financing objectives.  

        Our cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the
time of purchase. Our short-term investments consist primarily of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the time of purchase. Our investment
policy has as its principal objectives the preservation of principal and maintenance of liquidity. We mitigate default risk by investing in high-quality investment grade securities, limiting the time
to maturity and by monitoring the counter-parties and underlying obligors closely. 

        While
as of the date of this filing, we are not aware of any material downgrades, losses, or other significant deterioration in the fair value of our cash equivalents or short-term
investments, no assurance can be given that future deterioration in conditions of the global credit and financial markets would not negatively impact our current portfolio of cash equivalents or
short-term investments or our ability to meet our financing objectives. 







We are at times subject to intellectual property legal proceedings and claims which could cause us
to incur significant additional costs or prevent us from selling our products, and which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  

        We are subject from time-to-time to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of the patents, trademarks
and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us, or our customers, in connection with their use of our products. Intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming,
regardless of the merits of any claim, and could divert our management's attention from operating our business. In addition, intellectual property lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties due to
the complexity of the technical issues involved,
which may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. Patent litigation has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the increasing competition and overlap of
product functionality in the field. Some of the actions that we face from time-to-time seek injunctions against the sale of our products and/or substantial monetary damages, which if granted or
awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 


        We
cannot be certain that our products do not and will not infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of others. We may not be aware of currently filed patent
applications that relate to our products or technology. If patents are later issued on these applications, we may be liable for infringement. If our products were found to infringe the intellectual
property rights of others, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the manufacture, use and sale of infringing products in one or more geographic locations, expend significant resources
to develop non-infringing technology, discontinue the use of specific processes or obtain licenses to the technology infringed. We might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable
terms, or at all, or be able to reengineer our products successfully to avoid infringement. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur significant costs and prevent us from selling our products,
which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data-Note 14. Legal, Environmental and Other
Contingencies" contained in this report for a description of pending intellectual property proceedings. 

32




 

Table of Contents







We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations.  

        We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements
to protect our IP rights. In the past, we have been involved in significant and expensive disputes regarding our IP rights and those of others, including claims that we may be infringing patents,
trademarks and other IP rights of third-parties. We expect that we will be involved in similar disputes in the future. 

        There
can be no assurance that:



• any of our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged; 
• patents will be issued for any of our pending applications; 
• any claims allowed from existing or pending patents will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us;  
• our patents will be issued in the primary countries where our products are sold in order to protect our rights and potential
commercial advantage; 
• we will be able to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information through confidentiality agreements with our customers,
suppliers and employees and through other security measures; and 
• others will not gain access to our trade secrets. 


        In
addition, our competitors may be able to design their products around our patents and other proprietary rights. Enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. If we bring a
patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. Moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us
for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. 

        Furthermore,
we have significant operations and sales in foreign countries where intellectual property laws and enforcement policies are often less developed, less stringent or more
difficult to enforce than in the United States. 







We may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or
investment opportunities, to successfully acquire and integrate companies that provide complementary products or technologies or to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions.  

        Our growth strategy involves pursuing strategic alliances with, making acquisitions of, forming joint ventures with or making
investments in other companies that are complementary to our business. There is substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture and investment candidates.
Accordingly, we may not be able to identify suitable strategic alliances, acquisition, joint venture, or investment candidates. Even if we can identify them, we cannot assure you that we will be able
to partner with, acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired technologies or operations successfully into our existing technologies and operations. Moreover, our ability to finance
potential strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the covenants contained in the instruments that govern our outstanding
indebtedness, and any agreements governing any other debt we may incur. 

        If
we are successful in forming strategic alliances or acquiring, forming joint ventures or making investments in other companies, any of these transactions may have an adverse effect on
our results of operations, particularly while the operations of an acquired business are being integrated. It is also likely that integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key
employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those companies. In addition, the integration of any acquired companies would 

33




 

Table of Contents

require
substantial attention from our senior management, which may limit the amount of time available to be devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our strategy. Growth by
strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment involves an even higher degree of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter new markets in which we have limited
experience, and no assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or alternative business models will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated objectives. There can be no
assurance that we will realize the anticipated benefits of any strategic alliance, acquisition, joint venture or investment that we make or, if we do, how long it will take to achieve such benefits. 

        Furthermore,
the expansion of our business involves the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or
investments, that we may have impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets associated with these acquisitions and that we would incur substantial charges relating to the write-off of
in-process research and development, similar to that which we incurred in connection with several of our prior acquisitions.
Each of these items could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

        In
addition, we could issue additional ordinary shares in connection with future strategic alliances, acquisitions, joint ventures or investments. Issuing shares in connection with such
transactions would have the effect of diluting your ownership percentage of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. 








Servicing our indebtedness requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient
cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt.  

        We are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. Our significant debt and debt service requirements could adversely
affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. For example, our high level of debt presents the following
risks:



• we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby
reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate
requirements; 
• our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could
place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; 
• our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and
could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies;  
• our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital
expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements; and 
• covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay future dividends or make other restricted payments and investments. 


        In
the event that we need to refinance all or a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as the terms of our existing debt or
refinance our existing debt at all. If prevailing interest rates or other factors existing at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense
relating to the refinanced debt would increase. Furthermore, if any rating agency changes our credit rating or outlook, our debt and equity securities could 

34




 

Table of Contents

be
negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or raise additional capital. 

        In
addition, our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs,
including working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and other general corporate requirements. 


        Our
ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you
that:



• our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations; 
• we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and operating improvements that result from the execution of our
long-term strategic plan; or 
• future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs. 


        If
we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments
and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, or that they
would permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In addition if we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including the risk that we will be unable
to service our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity needs, could intensify. 







The price of our ordinary shares may be volatile and could decline significantly.  

        The stock market, in general, and the market for technology stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that has often
been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. If these market or industry-based fluctuations continue, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline significantly independent of
our actual operating performance, and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment. The market price of our ordinary shares could fluctuate significantly in response to several factors,
including among others:



• general uncertainty in stock market conditions occasioned by global economic conditions, negative financial news and the continued
instability of several large financial institutions; 
• actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations; 
• announcements of innovations, new products or significant price reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors who
offer alternative storage technology solutions; 
• our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment research analysts; 
• the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions;  
• general stock market conditions; 
• the occurrence of major catastrophic events; 
• changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts; 
• changes in the credit ratings of our indebtedness by rating agencies; and 
• the sale of our ordinary shares held by certain equity investors or members of management. 

35




 

Table of Contents







Any decision to reduce or discontinue the payment of cash dividends to our shareholders or the
repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our previously announced share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly.  


        Although we have announced targeted regular cash dividend amounts and a share repurchase program, we are under no obligation to pay
cash dividends to our shareholders in the future at the announced targeted levels or at all or to repurchase our ordinary shares at any particular price or at all. The declaration and payment of any
future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and our previously announced share repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. Our payment of quarterly cash
dividends and the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program are subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and
cash flow, capital and regulatory requirements, market and economic conditions, our ordinary share price, and other factors. Any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash
dividends or the repurchase of our ordinary shares pursuant to our share repurchase program could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. Moreover, in the event our
payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our ordinary shares are reduced or discontinued, our failure to resume such activities at historical levels could result in a persistent lower
market valuation of our ordinary shares. 







Significant fluctuations in the market price of our ordinary shares could result in securities class
action claims against us.  

        Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with respect to the publicly traded securities of technology companies. The
price of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile in the future. In the past, following periods of decline in the market price of a company's securities, class action lawsuits have often been
pursued against that company. If similar litigation were pursued against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could materially
adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  

<A
NAME="de47001_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B