Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements
    to reflect events or circumstances after the date they were
    made.







 



    PART I








 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS





 


    We are the leader in the design, manufacture and marketing of
    rigid disc drives. Rigid disc drives, which are commonly
    referred to as disc drives or hard drives, are used as the
    primary medium for storing electronic information in systems
    ranging from desktop and notebook computers, and consumer
    electronics devices to data centers delivering information over
    corporate networks and the Internet. We produce a broad range of
    disc drive products addressing enterprise applications, where
    our products are used in enterprise servers, mainframes and
    workstations; desktop applications, where our products are used
    in desktop computers; mobile computing applications, where our
    products are used in notebook computers; and consumer
    electronics applications, where our products are used in a wide
    variety of devices such as digital video recorders (DVRs),
    gaming devices and other consumer electronic devices that
    require storage. We also sell storage products containing our
    disc drives under the Seagate Technology (“Seagate”)
    and Maxtor Corporation (“Maxtor”) brands.


 


    We sell our disc drives primarily to major original equipment
    manufacturers (OEMs) and also market to distributors under our
    globally recognized brand names. For the fiscal years 2007, 2006
    and 2005, approximately 64%, 72% and 72%, respectively, of our
    disc drive revenue was from sales to OEMs, of which
    Hewlett-Packard (“HP”) was the only customer exceeding
    10% of our disc drive revenue in all of these respective periods
    while Dell exceeded 10% of our disc drive revenue for fiscal
    years 2006 and 2005. We have longstanding relationships with
    many of our OEM customers. We also have key relationships with
    major distributors who sell our disc drive products to small
    OEMs, dealers, system integrators and retailers throughout most
    of the world. Shipments to distributors were approximately 30%,
    25% and 26% of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively. Retail sales of our branded storage
    products in fiscal year 2007, as a percentage of our disc drive
    revenue, was 6%, compared to 3% and 2% in fiscal years 2006 and
    2005, respectively. For fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    approximately 30%, 30% and 31%, respectively, of our disc drive
    revenue came from customers located in North America,
    approximately 27%, 27% and 28%, respectively, came from
    customers located in Europe and approximately 43%, 43% and 41%,
    respectively, came from customers located in the Far East.
    Substantially all of our revenue is denominated in
    U.S. dollars.


 


    In addition to manufacturing and selling disc drives and branded
    storage products, we provide data storage services for small to
    medium size businesses, including online backup, data protection
    and recovery solutions through EVault, Inc.
    (“EVault”), which we acquired in fiscal year 2007.



    
    3



Table of Contents





    Industry


 



    Electronic
    Data Storage Industry


 


    The electronic data storage industry is comprised of companies
    that participate across the entire electronic data storage value
    chain and information life cycle, either by providing hardware
    storage solutions, components for hardware storage solutions,
    value added storage solutions, software or services.


 


    Participants in the electronic data storage industry include:


 


    Major subcomponent manufacturers.  Companies
    that manufacture components or subcomponents used in electronic
    data storage devices or solutions include companies such as
    Komag, Inc. (“Komag”), which is in the process of
    being acquired by Western Digital Corporation (“Western
    Digital”), TDK Corporation (“TDK”), Fuji Electric
    Device Technology Co., Ltd. (“Fuji”), Showa Denko K.K.
    (“Showa”), and until the announced acquisition by TDK,
    Alps Electric Co. Ltd. (“Alps”), that supply heads and
    media to disc drive manufacturers as well as semiconductor
    companies such as Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd
    (“Samsung”), SanDisk Corporation
    (“SanDisk”), Micron Technology, Inc.
    (“Micron”), and Intel Corporation (“Intel”)
    who manufacture flash memory.


 


    Hardware storage solutions
    manufacturers.  Hardware storage solutions are
    also provided by a variety of technologies such as disc drives,
    tape storage, as well as semiconductor-based storage
    technologies such as flash memory. Companies that make hardware
    storage solutions include disc drive manufacturers such as
    Seagate Technology, Western Digital, Samsung, Fujitsu Limited
    (“Fujitsu”), Hitachi Global Storage Technologies
    (“Hitachi”) and Toshiba Corporation
    (“Toshiba”), magnetic tape storage manufacturers such
    as Quantum Corporation (“Quantum”), as well as
    semiconductor companies such as Samsung, SanDisk, Micron, and
    Intel, whose products include flash memory.


 


    System integrators.  Companies that bundle and
    package storage components such as hardware storage solutions
    and software into systems for compute, consumer electronics and
    enterprise applications, include personal compute OEMs such as
    HP, Dell, Inc. (“Dell”), Acer Inc., Lenovo Group
    Limited, and Apple, Inc. (“Apple”); consumer
    electronics OEMs such as Apple, Sony Corporation
    (“Sony”), Microsoft Corporation
    (“Microsoft”), Motorola, Inc. (“Motorola”),
    Directv Group, Inc., Tivo Inc. and Scientific-Atlanta
    Inc., a Cisco System Inc. company; enterprise storage system
    OEMs such as, HP, EMC Corporation (“EMC”) and Network
    Appliance, Inc. (“Net App”).


 


    Storage services and software
    providers.  Companies that provide services for
    the backup, archiving, recovery and discovery of electronic
    data, or the software to enable businesses and consumers to do
    so, such as Symantec Corporation (“Symantec”) and EMC.


 



    Demand
    for Electronic Data Storage


 


    We believe that the amount of data stored and accessed
    electronically is growing rapidly. We believe the key factor
    driving this demand is the mass proliferation of digital
    content. While the electronic data storage industry has
    traditionally been focused on compute applications for the
    enterprise and corporate markets, a continued proliferation of
    non-compute applications in the consumer electronics market is
    increasingly driving the broad, global expansion of the demand
    for electronic data storage driven by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the creation of all types of digital content such as
    digital photos, video, movies and music by consumers, as well as
    devices for enjoyment, consumption and preservation of such
    content such as DVRs, digital music players, handheld
    applications, gaming consoles and storage devices in automobiles;



 


     
        • 

    
    the aggregation and distribution of digital content
    through services and other offerings by companies such as
    YouTube by Google Inc. (“Google”), Flickr by Yahoo!
    Inc. (“Yahoo”), iTunes by Apple and MySpace by News
    Corporation (“News Corp.”).





 


    We believe that because digital content is increasingly rich in
    media with the mass utilization of photos, video, movies and
    music, the related storage applications and solutions
    increasingly require higher storage capacity to store, manage,
    distribute, utilize and back up richer media digital content.
    This in turn has resulted in the rapid growth in demand for
    electronic data storage hardware solutions that either directly
    utilize disc drives, or indirectly drive the demand for
    additional disc drive storage to store, host or back up related
    electronic data content.



    
    4



Table of Contents




    Additionally, we believe that demand for electronic data storage
    in the enterprise and traditional compute markets have also
    increased as increasing legal and regulatory requirements and
    changes in the nature and amount of data being stored has
    necessitated additional storage.


 



    Demand
    for Disc Drives


 


    Disc drives store digitally encoded data on rapidly rotating
    platters with magnetic surfaces. Disc drives provide reliable,
    large capacity data storage, and are characterized by relatively
    low-cost per gigabyte of storage. Disc drives are presently the
    most common storage solution in enterprise, desktop, mobile and
    higher capacity consumer electronics applications.


 


    Disc Drives for Enterprise Storage.  The need
    to address the expansion in data storage management requirements
    has increased the demand for new hardware storage solutions for
    both mission critical and business critical enterprise storage.


 


    Many enterprises are moving away from the use of server-attached
    storage to network-attached storage for mission critical
    enterprise storage. We expect the market for these solutions
    will likely grow, resulting in greater opportunities for the
    sale of high-performance, high capacity disc drives. Many
    enterprises are also consolidating data centers, aiming to
    increase speed and reliability within a smaller space, reduce
    network complexity and increase savings associated with hardware
    costs and maintenance. This has led to an increased demand for
    more energy efficient, smaller form factor disc drives.
    Recently, solid state drives (SSDs) storage applications that
    use flash storage technology as an alternative to disc drive
    storage technology, have been introduced as a potential
    alternative to redundant system startup or boot disc drives.


 


    In addition to the growth in mission critical enterprise
    storage, there has also been significant growth in the use of
    high capacity, enterprise class serial advanced technology
    architecture (SATA) products in business critical storage
    systems used by enterprises to store and access
    capacity-intensive non-critical data. This application is
    exemplified by growth in content aggregation and distribution by
    companies like Google Inc., Yahoo! Inc. and News Corp as well as
    storage service providers. We believe that this growth in demand
    for disc drives for use in business critical storage systems is
    likely to shift some demand from disc drives used in traditional
    mission critical enterprise storage in the longer term.


 


    Disc Drives for Mobile Computing.  The mobile
    computing market is expected to grow faster than that for
    desktop computers as price and performance continue to improve.
    Notebooks are increasingly replacing desktop computers and are
    progressively more desirable to consumers as the need for
    mobility increases and wireless adoption continues to advance.
    We estimate that in fiscal year 2007, industry shipments of disc
    drives for mobile compute applications grew approximately 35%
    from fiscal year 2006.


 


    The disc drive industry has recently introduced hybrid disc
    drives for mobile compute applications that add flash memory to
    a disc drive to provide customers with a single, integrated
    solution with enhanced performance, better power utilization,
    quicker
    start-up
    speed and prolonged disc drive durability. Certain companies
    have also recently introduced SSDs for mobile compute
    applications that directly compete with mobile disc drives. The
    current cost per gigabyte for SSDs is significantly higher than
    the cost per gigabyte for disc drives and is projected to remain
    higher for the foreseeable future, which we believe will largely
    inhibit the use of SSDs in many price-sensitive mass-market
    mobile compute applications.


 


    Disc Drives for Desktop Computing.  We believe
    growth in disc drives for desktop computing has recently
    moderated, in part due to the shift from desktop computers to
    notebook computers, particularly in developed countries. We
    believe that current growth in demand for disc drives in desktop
    computing is concentrated in developing markets where price
    remains a primary consideration in compute application data
    storage purchases.


 


    Disc Drives for Consumer Electronics.  Disc
    drives in the consumer electronics markets are primarily used in
    DVRs and gaming consoles which require more storage capability
    than can be provided in a cost-effective manner through
    alternative technologies such as flash memory, which are better
    suited to lower capacity consumer electronics applications. We
    believe the demand for disc drives in consumer electronics will
    become more pronounced with the increased amount of high
    definition content that requires larger amounts of storage
    capacity. With respect to handheld applications, we believe disc
    drive products smaller than 1.8-inch form factors have to a



    
    5



Table of Contents




    large extent been replaced by competing storage technologies,
    such as solid state or flash memory. However, we believe that
    disc drives continue to be well suited in applications requiring
    capacities of 20 gigabytes (GB) or more, and that the demand for
    disc drives as additional storage to store, hold or back up
    related media content from such handheld devices, continues to
    grow.


 


    Disc Drives for Branded Solutions.  We believe
    that industry demand for storage products like our branded
    storage products is increasing due to the proliferation of
    media-rich digital content in consumer applications and is
    fuelling increased consumer demand for storage. This has led to
    the expansion of solutions such as external storage products to
    provide additional storage capacity and to secure data in case
    of disaster or system failure, or to provide independent storage
    solutions for multiple users in home or small business
    environments.


 



    Success
    in the Disc Drive Industry Depends on Technology and
    Manufacturing Leadership, High Levels of Capital and Research
    and Development Investments and Large Scale


 


    The design and manufacturing of disc drives depends on highly
    advanced technology and manufacturing techniques, especially in
    the areas of read/write heads and recording media, thereby
    requiring high levels of capital and research and development
    investments. We believe the competitive dynamics of the disc
    drive industry favor integrated manufacturers such as ourselves,
    with the large scale and resources to make substantial
    technology investments and apply them across a broad product
    portfolio and a wide variety of customers.


 


    Integrated manufacturers are companies that design and produce
    the critical components, including read/write heads and
    recording media, used in their disc drives. An integrated
    approach enables them to lower manufacturing costs and to
    improve the functionality of components so that they work
    together efficiently. Due to the significant challenges posed by
    the need to continually innovate and improve manufacturing
    efficiency and because of the increasing amounts of capital and
    research and development investments required, the disc drive
    industry has undergone significant consolidation as disc drive
    manufacturers and component suppliers merged with other
    companies or exited the industry. Through such combinations,
    disc drive manufacturers have also become increasingly
    vertically integrated. For instance, Maxtor acquired Quantum in
    April 2001. Then, International Business Machines Corporation
    (“IBM”) merged its rigid disc drive business with that
    of Hitachi through the formation of Hitachi Global Storage
    Technologies in December 2002. This trend of disc drive
    manufacturer consolidation continued with our acquisition of
    Maxtor in May 2006. In March 2007, TDK, a disc drive head
    manufacturer, announced its pending acquisition of Alps, also a
    disc drive head manufacturer, while in June 2007, Western
    Digital announced that it is acquiring Komag. We believe
    consolidation is likely to continue in the disc drive industry
    through combination of disc drive manufacturers, component
    manufacturers, or both, as the technological challenges and the
    associated levels of required investment grow, increasing the
    competitive necessity of larger-scale operations.


 



    Disc
    Drive Technology


 



    Overview


 


    All disc drives incorporate the same basic technology although
    individual products vary. One or more discs are attached to a
    spindle assembly powered by a spindle motor that rotates the
    discs at a high constant speed around a hub. The discs, or
    recording media, are the components on which data is stored and
    from which it is retrieved. Each disc typically consists of a
    substrate of finely machined aluminum or glass with a layer of a
    thin-film magnetic material. Read/write heads, mounted on an arm
    assembly similar in concept to that of a record player, fly
    extremely close to each disc surface and record data on and
    retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the
    rotating discs. The read/write heads are mounted vertically on
    an E-shaped
    assembly. The
    E-block and
    the recording media are mounted inside a metal casing, called
    the base casing.


 


    Upon instructions from the drive’s electronic circuitry, a
    head positioning mechanism, or actuator, guides the heads to the
    selected track of a disc where the data is recorded or
    retrieved. Application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and
    ancillary electronic control chips are collectively mounted on
    printed circuit boards. ASICs move data to and from the
    read/write head and the internal controller, or interface, which
    communicates with the host computer. Disc drive manufacturers
    typically use one or more of several industry standard
    interfaces such as



    
    6



Table of Contents




    advanced technology architecture (ATA); SATA, which provides
    higher data transfer rates than the previous ATA standard; small
    computer system interface (SCSI); serial attached SCSI (SAS);
    and Fibre Channel.


 



    Disc
    Drive Performance


 


    Disc drive performance is commonly assessed by six key
    characteristics:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    storage capacity, commonly expressed in GB or terabytes (TB),
    which is the amount of data that can be stored on the disc;



 


     
        • 

    
    spindle rotation speed, commonly expressed in revolutions per
    minute (RPM), which has an effect on speed of access to data;



 


     
        • 

    
    interface transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per
    second, which is the rate at which data moves between the disc
    drive and the computer controller;



 


     
        • 

    
    average seek time, commonly expressed in milliseconds, which is
    the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on
    the disc surface,



 


     
        • 

    
    data transfer rate, commonly expressed in megabytes per second,
    which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the
    disc; and



 


     
        • 

    
    product quality and reliability, commonly expressed in
    annualized return rates (ARR).





 



    Areal
    Density


 


    Areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch
    on the recording surface of a disc. Current areal densities are
    sufficient to meet the requirements of most applications today.
    We expect the long-term demand for increased drive capacities
    will continue to grow proportionately with the shift in storage
    applications from predominantly compute applications to more
    high-resolution media content. In particular, audio, video and
    image storage data continue to increase in size, with high
    definition video content an example of data requiring many
    multiples of the storage capacity of standard video. Demand will
    further intensify by the proliferation of these forms of
    content. We have pursued, and expect to continue to pursue, a
    number of technologies to increase areal densities across the
    entire range of our products to increase disc drive capacities
    and to enable the production of higher capacity, smaller form
    factor disc drives. We led the industry in transitioning from
    longitudinal to perpendicular recording technology, in which
    data bits are oriented vertically on the disc platter
    (perpendicular to the disc surface), rather than flat to the
    surface in order to increase areal density and capacity.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We pursue an integrated business strategy based on the ownership
    of critical component technologies. This vertical integration
    strategy allows us to maintain control over our product roadmap
    and component cost, quality and availability. Our manufacturing
    efficiency and flexibility are critical elements of our
    integrated business strategy. We continuously seek to improve
    our manufacturing efficiency and cost by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consolidating the number and location of facilities we operate
    and reducing the number of personnel we employ;



 


     
        • 

    
    employing manufacturing automation to enhance our efficiency and
    flexibility;



 


     
        • 

    
    applying Six Sigma to improve product quality and reliability
    and reduce costs;



 


     
        • 

    
    integrating our supply chain with suppliers and customers to
    enhance our demand visibility and reduce our working capital
    requirements; and



 


     
        • 

    
    coordinating between our manufacturing group and our research
    and development organization to rapidly achieve volume
    manufacturing and enhance our product quality and reliability.





 


    Manufacturing our disc drives is a complex process that begins
    with the production of individual components and ends with a
    fully assembled unit. We design, fabricate
    and/or
    assemble a number of the most important



    
    7



Table of Contents




    components found in our disc drives, including read/write heads,
    recording media and printed circuit boards. Our design and
    manufacturing operations are based on technology platforms that
    are used to produce various disc drive products that serve
    multiple disc drive applications and markets. As an example, our
    3.5-inch ATA disc drive with perpendicular recording technology
    platform is sold to customers for use in desktop, enterprise and
    consumer electronics applications. Our main technology platforms
    are primarily focused around areal density of media and
    read/write head technologies. In addition, we also invest in
    certain other technology platforms including motors, servo
    formatting read/write channels, solid-state technologies and
    sealed drive technologies. Our integrated platform technologies
    and manufacturing allow our set of products to be used in a wide
    range of electronic data storage applications and in a wide
    range of industries.


 


    We believe that because of our vertical design and manufacturing
    strategy, we are well suited to meet the challenges posed by the
    close interdependence of components for disc drives, which is
    especially critical in the design and production of products
    incorporating perpendicular recording technology.


 


    Read/Write Heads.  The function of the
    read/write head is to scan across the disc as it spins,
    magnetically recording or reading information. The tolerances of
    recording heads are extremely demanding and require
    state-of-the-art equipment and processes. Our read/write heads
    are manufactured with thin-film and photolithographic processes
    similar to those used to produce semiconductor integrated
    circuits, though challenges in magnetic film properties and
    topographical structures are unique to the disc drive industry.
    Beginning with six and eight-inch round ceramic wafers, we
    process more than 30,000 head elements at one time. Each of
    these head elements goes through more than 500 steps, all in
    clean room environments. As we expect to essentially complete
    our product transition to perpendicular recording technology by
    the end of calendar year 2008, we have upgraded our fabrication
    facilities in capital equipment and systems to deliver the
    required complexity and precision. Additional capital
    investments will be driven primarily by volume. We perform all
    primary stages of design and manufacture of read/write heads at
    our facilities. We currently manufacture virtually all of our
    read/write heads.


 


    Recording Media.  The function of the recording
    media is to magnetically store information. The domains where
    each bit of magnetic code is stored are extremely small and
    precisely placed. As a result, the manufacturing of recording
    media requires sophisticated thin-film processes. Each disc is a
    sequentially processed set of sputtered layers that consist of
    structural, magnetic, protective and lubricating materials
    deposited on a disc substrate. Once complete, the disc must have
    a high degree of physical uniformity to assure reliable and
    error-free storage. Recording media is deposited on aluminum or
    glass substrates.


 


    The percentage of our requirements for recording media that we
    produce internally varies from quarter to quarter. We are
    continuing to expand our media production facilities in
    Singapore, and have relocated certain of the acquired Maxtor
    media manufacturing equipment to Asia. We do not expect our new
    media facility in Singapore to be fully operational until
    towards the end of fiscal year 2008. Our long-term strategy is
    to externally purchase no more than 15% of total recording media
    requirements.


 


    We purchase approximately 70% of our aluminum substrates for
    recording media production from third parties. We are in the
    process of adding an aluminum substrate manufacturing facility
    in Johor, Malaysia which will allow us to decrease our purchases
    of aluminum substrates from third parties. We also purchase all
    of our glass substrates from third parties (mainly in Japan),
    which are used in manufacturing our disc drives for mobile and
    small form factor consumer electronics products.


 


    Recently, substantially all of our purchases of recording media
    and a significant portion of our aluminum substrates from
    third-party suppliers have been sourced from Komag, which is in
    the process of being acquired by Western Digital. We are engaged
    in discussions with all our suppliers to ensure supply
    continuity. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors Related to Our
    Business — Dependence on Supply of Components,
    Equipment, and Raw Materials — If we experience
    shortages or delays in the receipt of critical components,
    equipment or raw materials necessary to manufacture our
    products, we may suffer lower operating margins, production
    delays and other material adverse effects.”


 


    Raw Materials.  Perpendicular recording
    technology requires recording media with more layers and the use
    of more precious metals and scarce alloys in the sputtering
    process required to create such layers. As a result, products
    utilizing perpendicular recording technology are more sensitive
    to fluctuations in prices and availability of



    
    8



Table of Contents




    precious metals and scarce alloys such as platinum and
    ruthenium. As our product offerings have transitioned to
    perpendicular recording technology, we have increased inventory
    of these precious metals and scarce alloys and may continue to
    be required to increase inventory over time.


 


    Printed Circuit Boards.  We assemble and test a
    significant portion of the printed circuit boards used in our
    disc drives. Printed circuit boards are the boards that contain
    the electronic circuitry and ASICs that provide the electronic
    controls of the disc drive and on which the head-disc assembly
    is mounted. We assemble printed circuit boards at our facilities
    in Malaysia and China.


 


    Spindle Motors.  We participate in the design
    of many of our spindle motors and purchase them principally from
    outside vendors in Asia, whom we have licensed to use our
    intellectual property and technology.


 


    ASICs.  We participate in the design of many of
    the ASICs used in our disc drives for motor and actuator
    control, such as interface controllers, read/write channels and
    pre-amplifiers.
    We do not manufacture any ASICs but, rather, buy them from
    third-party suppliers.


 


    Disc Drive Assembly.  Following the production
    of the individual components of the disc drive, the first step
    in the manufacture of a disc drive itself is the assembly of the
    actuator arm, read/write heads, discs and spindle motor in a
    housing to form the head-disc assembly. The production of the
    head-disc assembly involves largely automated processes. Printed
    circuit boards are then mated to the head-disc assembly and the
    completed unit is tested prior to packaging and shipment. Disc
    drive assembly and test operations occur primarily at facilities
    located in China, Singapore and Thailand. We perform subassembly
    and component manufacturing operations at our facilities in
    China, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, Singapore, Thailand, and in
    the United States, in California and Minnesota. In addition,
    third parties manufacture and assemble components for us in
    various Asian countries, including China, Japan, Korea,
    Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and
    Vietnam, in Europe and the United States.


 



    Products


 


    We offer a broad range of disc drive products for the
    enterprise, mobile computing, desktop, consumer electronics and
    branded solutions markets of the disc drive industry. We now
    produce perpendicular recording technology based products for
    all major markets described below, with products shipping for
    revenue in all major markets in fiscal year 2007. Currently, the
    majority of our disc drive unit shipments are perpendicular
    recording technology based products. In addition, we have
    recently announced our intention to introduce SSD products for
    select markets in the future.


 


    We offer more than one product within each product family, and
    differentiate products on the basis of price/performance and
    form factor, the dimensions of the disc drive, capacity, or
    interface. Historically, our industry has been characterized by
    continuous and significant advances in technology, which
    contributed to rapid product life cycles. We list below our main
    current product offerings.


 



    Enterprise
    Storage


 


    Cheetah SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family.  Our
    Cheetah 3.5-inch disc drives ships in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and
    in storage capacities ranging from 36GB to 400GB. Commercial
    uses for Cheetah disc drives include Internet and
    e-commerce
    servers, data mining and data warehousing, mainframes and
    supercomputers, department/enterprise servers and workstations,
    transaction processing, professional video and graphics and
    medical imaging.


 


    Savvio SCSI/SAS/Fibre Channel Family.  Savvio,
    our 2.5-inch enterprise disc drives, first introduced in fiscal
    year 2004, designed to enable space optimization, maximized
    performance and availability, ships in 10,000 and 15,000 RPM and
    in storage capacities ranging from 36GB to 146GB. This disc
    drive is our first enterprise disc drive in the smaller 2.5-inch
    form factor and, as such, allows the installation of more disc
    drives per square foot, thus facilitating faster access to data.
    We believe that end-user customers are increasingly adopting the
    smaller 2.5-inch form factor enterprise class disc drives. We
    are currently shipping our 2nd generation Savvio disc drive
    which utilizes perpendicular recording technology with increased
    throughput and improved power consumption, allowing improved
    space optimized enterprise storage systems.


 


    Barracuda ES SATA Family.  Our Barracuda ES
    3.5-inch disc drives using perpendicular recording technology
    ships in 7,200 RPM and in storage capacities ranging from
    250GB to 750GB. The Barracuda ES



    
    9



Table of Contents




    addresses the emerging market in enterprise storage of the use
    of business critical storage systems for capacity-intensive
    enterprise applications that require space optimization,
    maximized performance and availability. In June 2007, we
    announced storage capacities of up to 1 TB for this drive.


 



    Mobile
    Computing


 


    Momentus ATA/SATA Family.  The Momentus family
    of disc drives for mobile computing disc drive products, ships
    in 5,400 and 7,200 RPM and in capacities ranging from 30GB
    to 160GB. Commercial uses for Momentus disc drives include
    notebook computers running popular office applications and
    notebook computers for business, government and education
    environments. Consumer uses for Momentus disc drives include
    notebook computers, tablet computers and digital audio
    applications. We have started to ship three new products for the
    mobile compute market, all utilizing perpendicular recording
    technology, including the Momentus 5400 PSD, a
    2.5-inch
    notebook hybrid drive that combines rotating disc storage with
    flash memory for greater power efficiency, faster
    boot-ups and
    increased reliability; the Momentus 5400.2 FDE, the
    industry’s only 2.5-inch encrypting disc drive that
    delivers the highest levels of protection for data on lost,
    stolen or retired notebooks; and the Momentus 7200.2, a 7,200
    RPM disc drive for high-performance notebooks.


 


    LD25.2 Family.  Our LD25.2
    Series 2.5-inch
    disc drives deliver storage capacities of 40GB and 80GB at 5,400
    RPM, a solution with optimized capacity and size for notebook
    computers.


 



    Desktop
    Storage


 


    Barracuda ATA/SATA Family.  Our Barracuda
    3.5-inch disc drive is in its 11th generation and delivers
    storage capacities of up to 1TB at 7,200 RPM and is used in
    applications such as PCs, workstations and personal external
    storage devices. The majority of our desktop storage products
    currently utilize perpendicular recording technology.
    Additionally, we are currently shipping a 3.5-inch disc drive
    with 250GB of capacity on a single disc which utilizes
    2nd generation perpendicular recording technology.


 


    DiamondMax Family.  Our DiamondMax 3.5-inch
    disc drives deliver storage capacities of up to 500GB at 7,200
    RPM. DiamondMax drives are targeted at entry-level and
    mainstream PCs with non-traditional ATA applications that
    require a value solution with solid performance.


 


    LD25.2 Family.  Our LD25.2
    Series 2.5-inch
    disc drives deliver storage capacities of 40GB and 80GB at 5,400
    RPM.


 



    Consumer
    Electronics Storage


 


    Barracuda ATA/SATA Family.  We also sell some
    of our 3.5-inch Barracuda disc drives for use in DVR’s,
    audio jukeboxes, home media centers and home and industrial
    security systems. Our DB35 Series disc drive, with storage
    capacities up to 750GB, uses perpendicular recording technology
    to help set-top box manufacturers optimize performance for
    leading-edge digital entertainment.


 


    Momentus ATA/SATA Family.  We sell our
    2.5-inch, 7,200 and 5,400 RPM Momentus disc drives, including
    our recently announced LD25 Series of Momentus family of disc
    drives with capacities ranging from 20GB up to 160GB, for use in
    low-profile DVR’s, gaming consoles, home entertainment
    devices and small footprint media PCs. We also offer our
    2.5-inch EE25 Series of Momentus disc drives which is designed
    for the temperature, vibration, humidity and other environmental
    extremes of automotive, marine and aircraft applications,
    delivering storage capacities of up to 80GB.


 


    Seagate ST18 Series.  Our Seagate ST18 Series
    disc drives uses Seagate’s perpendicular recording
    technology to deliver 60GB on a single platter in a compact
    1.8-inch disc drive designed for use in portable media players,
    global positioning systems (GPS), digital video camcorders and
    ultra-mobile PCs.


 



    Branded
    Solutions


 


    Our branded solutions business, which was expanded with the
    acquisition and integration of the retail and branded sales
    operations of Maxtor and the related right to use the Maxtor
    brand and other related trade names such as
    “OneTouch”, provides storage products including
    various home and office storage appliances and applications.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    During fiscal year 2007, we launched our FreeAgent product line
    of external backup storage and we also currently ship the Maxtor
    OneTouchTM
    product line of external backup storage, with both these product
    lines utilizing our 3.5-inch Barracuda and 2.5-inch Momentus
    disc drives with capacities up to 750GB.


 



    Customers


 


    We sell our disc drive products primarily to major OEMs and
    distributors. OEM customers incorporate our disc drives into
    computer systems and storage systems for resale. Distributors
    typically sell our disc drives to small OEMs, dealers, system
    integrators and other resellers. Shipments to OEMs were
    approximately 64%, 72% and 72% of our disc drive revenue in
    fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Shipments to
    distributors were approximately 30%, 25% and 26% of our disc
    drive revenue in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
    Sales to HP accounted for approximately 16%, 17% and 18% of our
    disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005,
    respectively, while sales to Dell, as a percentage of our disc
    drive revenue, were 9%, 11% and 12% in fiscal years 2007, 2006
    and 2005, respectively. No other customer accounted for 10% or
    more of our disc drive revenue in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and
    2005. Retail sales of our branded storage products in fiscal
    year 2007 as a percentage of our disc drive revenue increased to
    6% from 3% and 2% in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively.
    See “Item 1A. Risk Factors Related to Our
    Business — Dependence on Key Customers — We
    may be adversely affected by the loss of, or reduced, delayed or
    cancelled purchases by, one or more of our larger
    customers.”


 


    OEM customers typically enter into master purchase agreements
    with us. These agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts,
    order lead times, product support obligations and other terms
    and conditions. The term of these agreements is usually 12 to
    36 months, although our product support obligations
    generally extend substantially beyond this period. These master
    agreements typically do not commit the customer to buy any
    minimum quantity of products, or create exclusive relationships.
    Deliveries are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders.
    In addition, with limited lead-time, customers may cancel or
    defer most purchase orders without significant penalty.
    Anticipated orders from many of our customers have in the past
    failed to materialize or OEM delivery schedules have been
    deferred or altered as a result of changes in their business
    needs.


 


    Our distributors generally enter into non-exclusive agreements
    for the redistribution of our products. They typically furnish
    us with a non-binding indication of their near-term requirements
    and product deliveries are generally scheduled based on a weekly
    confirmation by the distributor of its requirements for that
    week. The agreements typically provide the distributors with
    price protection with respect to their inventory of our disc
    drives at the time of a reduction by us in our selling price for
    the disc drives and also provide limited rights to return the
    product.


 


    We have significantly increased our sales of branded storage
    products to retail customers in the last two years with the
    Maxtor acquisition further expanding our retail customer base.
    Retail sales typically require higher marketing support, sales
    incentives and longer price protection periods.


 


    We also regularly enter into agreements with our customers,
    which obligate us to provide a limited indemnity against losses
    resulting from intellectual property claims. These agreements
    are customary in our industry and typically require us to
    indemnify our customer against certain damages and costs
    incurred as a result of third party intellectual property claims
    arising as a result of their use of our products.


 



    Sales,
    Marketing and Customer Service


 


    Our marketing organization works to increase demand for our disc
    drive products through strategic collaboration with key OEM
    customers and distribution partners to align our respective
    product roadmaps and to build our brand and end-customer
    relationships. As customer and markets increasingly demand a
    broad variety of products with different performance and cost
    attributes, we have recently organized our marketing
    organization with groups focused on the strategic needs of our
    increasingly diverse customer base. We believe this enables us
    to serve both our core markets and better identify, develop and
    serve emerging markets.


 


    Our sales organization focuses on deepening our relationship
    with our customers. The worldwide sales group focuses on
    geographic coverage of OEMs and distributors throughout most of
    the world. The worldwide sales group is organized by customer
    type and regionally among North America, Japan, Asia-Pacific
    (excluding Japan) and



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Europe, Africa and the Middle East. In addition, we have a sales
    operation group which focuses on aligning our production levels
    with customers’ product requirements. Our sales force works
    directly with our marketing organization to coordinate our OEM
    and distribution channel relationships. We maintain sales
    offices throughout the United States and in Australia, China,
    France, Germany, Japan, Singapore, Taiwan and the United Kingdom.


 


    With the acquisition of Maxtor, we acquired the right to the use
    the Maxtor and other related brand names. We believe the Maxtor
    brand is a valuable asset, and we intend to continue to offer
    the Maxtor brand of products to consumers globally to broaden
    our reach into and coverage of these channels as well as
    optimize the impact of our marketing investments.


 


    Our customer service organization maintains a global network of
    service points to process warranty returns and manage outsourced
    repair vendors. We generally warrant our products for periods
    ranging from one year to five years.


 


    Foreign sales are subject to foreign exchange controls and other
    restrictions, including, in the case of some countries, approval
    by the Office of Export Administration of the
    U.S. Department of Commerce and other
    U.S. governmental agencies.


 



    Competition


 


    The markets that we compete in are intensely competitive, with
    disc drive manufacturers not only competing for a limited number
    of major disc drive customers, but also increasingly competing
    with other companies in the electronic data storage industry
    that provide alternative storage solutions, such as flash memory
    and SSDs. Some of the principal factors used by customers to
    differentiate among electronic data storage solutions
    manufacturers are storage capacity; price per unit and price per
    gigabyte; storage/retrieval access times; data transfer rates;
    product quality and reliability; production volume capability;
    form factor; responsiveness to customer preferences and demands;
    warranty; and brand.


 


    We believe that our disc drive products are competitive with
    respect to each of these factors in the markets that we
    currently address. We summarize below our principal disc drive
    competitors, other competitors, the effect of competition on
    price erosion for our products and product life cycles and
    technology.


 


    Principal Disc Drive Competitors.  We have
    experienced and expect to continue to experience intense
    competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies,
    some of which have greater financial and other resources than we
    have. These competitors include independent disc drive
    manufacturers such as Western Digital, as well as large captive
    manufacturers such as Fujitsu, Samsung, Hitachi, and Toshiba.
    Because they produce complete computer systems and other
    non-compute consumer electronics and mobile devices, these
    “captive manufacturers” can derive a greater portion
    of their operating margins from other components, which reduces
    their need to realize a profit on the disc drives included in
    their computer systems and allows them to sell disc drives to
    third parties at very low margins. Many captive manufacturers
    are also formidable competitors because they have more
    substantial resources and greater access to their internal
    customers than we do. In addition, Hitachi (together with
    affiliated entities), Toshiba and Samsung, each are increasingly
    integrating other storage technologies such as flash memory,
    hybrid disc drives and SSDs into its product offerings. Not only
    may they be willing to sell their disc drives at a lower margin
    to advance their overall business strategy, their portfolio
    allows them to be indifferent to which technology prevails over
    the other. They can offer a broad range of storage media and
    solutions and focus on those with lowest costs and greatest
    sales. In connection with our branded storage products, in
    addition to competing with our disc drive competitors, we also
    compete with companies such as LaCie S.A. that purchase
    disc drives for use in their branded storage products from us
    and our competitors.


 


    Other Competitors.  We also are experiencing
    competition from companies that provide alternative storage
    technologies such as flash memory, which have substantially
    replaced disc drives in lower capacity handheld devices.
    Principal competitors include Samsung, Hitachi, Micron and
    SanDisk.



    
    12



Table of Contents




    Price Erosion.  Our industry has been
    characterized by continuous price erosion for disc drive
    products with comparable capacity, performance and feature sets
    (i.e., “like-for-like products”). Price erosion for
    like-for-like products is more pronounced during periods of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    industry consolidation in which competitors aggressively use
    discounted price to gain market share;



 


     
        • 

    
    few newer product introductions when multiple competitors have
    comparable product offerings;



 


     
        • 

    
    temporary imbalances between industry supply and demand; and



 


     
        • 

    
    seasonally weaker demand which may cause excess supply.





 


    Disc drive manufacturers typically attempt to off-set price
    erosion with an improved mix of disc drive products
    characterized by higher capacity, better performance and
    additional feature sets
    and/or
    product cost reductions.


 


    We expect that price erosion in our industry will continue for
    the foreseeable future. To remain competitive, it will be
    necessary to continue to reduce our prices, as well as introduce
    new product offerings with increased disc drive capacities
    and/or
    improved feature sets, utilizing advanced technologies prior to
    our competitors to take advantage of potentially higher initial
    profit margins and reduced cost structure on these new products.
    We have established production facilities in China, Malaysia,
    Singapore and Thailand to achieve cost reductions.


 


    Product Life Cycles and Changing
    Technology.  Historically, competition and
    changing customer preference and demand in the electronic data
    storage industry have shortened product life cycles and caused
    acceleration in the development and introduction of new
    technology. We believe that our future success will depend upon
    our ability to develop, manufacture and market products of high
    quality and reliability which meet changing user needs and which
    successfully anticipate or respond to changes in technology and
    standards on a cost-effective and timely basis. Introduction of
    any technology that delivers storage at an attractive price, or
    has other features not available to disc drives, will be
    disruptive to the disc drive industry. Product life cycles are
    also being shortened with the increasing capabilities of flash
    and SSD. For example, our
    1-inch disc
    drive’s life cycle was shortened when it was replaced by
    flash memory in smaller capacity handheld consumer electronics
    applications.


 



    Seasonality


 


    The disc drive industry traditionally experiences seasonal
    variability in demand with higher levels of demand in the second
    half of the calendar year. This seasonality is driven by
    consumer spending in the back-to-school season from late summer
    to fall and the traditional holiday shopping season from fall to
    winter. In addition, corporate demand is higher during the
    second half of the calendar year when IT budget calendars
    typically provide for more spending.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We are committed to developing new component technologies and
    products and evaluating alternative storage technologies,
    including flash storage technology. We have increased our focus
    on research and development and realigned our disc drive
    development process. This structured product process is designed
    to bring new products to market in a high volume environment and
    with quality attributes that our customers expect. Our research
    group, which is based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, is dedicated
    to the transition and extending the capacity of perpendicular
    recording technology as well as exploring alternative data
    storage technologies. Our advanced technology integration effort
    focuses disc drive and component research on recording
    subsystems, including read/write heads and recording media,
    market-specific product technology as well as technology focused
    towards new business opportunities. The primary purpose of our
    advanced technology integration effort is to ensure timely
    availability of mature component technologies to our product
    development teams as well as allowing us to leverage and
    coordinate those technologies in the design centers across our
    products in order to take advantage of opportunities in the
    marketplace. During fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, we had
    product development expenses of $904 million,
    $805 million and $645 million, respectively, which
    represented 8%, 9% and 9% of our consolidated revenue,
    respectively.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    Patents
    and Licenses


 


    As of June 29, 2007, we had approximately 3,857
    U.S. patents and 761 patents issued in various foreign
    jurisdictions as well as approximately 1,287 U.S. and 651
    foreign patent applications pending. The number of patents and
    patent applications will vary at any given time as part of our
    ongoing patent portfolio management activity. Due to the rapid
    technological change that characterizes the information storage
    industry, we believe that the improvement of existing products,
    reliance upon trade secret law, the protection of unpatented
    proprietary know-how and development of new products are
    generally more important than patent protection in establishing
    and maintaining a competitive advantage. Nevertheless, we
    believe that patents are valuable to our business and intend to
    continue our efforts to obtain patents, where available, in
    connection with our research and development program.


 


    The information storage industry is characterized by significant
    litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property
    rights. Because of rapid technological development in the
    information storage industry, some of our products have been,
    and in the future could be, alleged to infringe existing patents
    of third parties. From time to time, we receive claims that our
    products infringe patents of third parties. Although we have
    been able to resolve some of those claims or potential claims by
    obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question
    without a material adverse affect on us, other claims have
    resulted in adverse decisions or settlements. In addition, other
    claims are pending which if resolved unfavorably to us could
    have a material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations. For more information on these claims, see
    “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The costs of
    engaging in intellectual property litigation in the past have
    been and may be substantial regardless of the merit of the claim
    or the outcome. We have patent cross-licenses with a number of
    companies. Additionally, as part of our normal intellectual
    property practices, we are engaged in negotiations with other
    major disc drive companies and component manufacturers with
    respect to ongoing patent cross-licenses.


 



    Backlog


 


    In view of customers’ rights to cancel or defer orders with
    little or no penalty, we believe backlog in the disc drive
    industry is of limited indicative value in estimating future
    performance and results.


 



    Employees


 


    At June 29, 2007, we employed approximately
    54,000 employees, temporary employees and contractors
    worldwide, of which approximately 43,000 employees were
    located in our Asian operations. We believe that our future
    success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain
    qualified employees at all levels. We believe that our employee
    relations are good.


 



    Environmental
    Matters


 


    Our operations are subject to comprehensive U.S. and
    foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the
    environment, including those governing discharges of pollutants
    into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous
    substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites.
    Some of our operations require environmental permits and
    controls to prevent and reduce air and water pollution, and
    these permits are subject to modification, renewal and
    revocation by issuing authorities.


 


    We believe that our operations are currently in substantial
    compliance with all environmental laws, regulations and permits.
    We incur operating and capital costs on an ongoing basis to
    comply with environmental laws. If additional or more stringent
    requirements are imposed on us in the future, we could incur
    additional operating costs and capital expenditures.


 


    Some environmental laws, such as the U.S. federal superfund
    law and similar state statutes, can impose liability for the
    cost of cleanup of contaminated sites upon any of the current or
    former site owners or operators or upon parties who sent waste
    to these sites, regardless of whether the owner or operator
    owned the site at the time of the release of hazardous
    substances or the lawfulness of the original disposal activity.
    We have been identified as a potentially responsible party at
    several superfund sites. At each of these sites, the government
    has assigned to us a



    
    14



Table of Contents




    portion of the financial liability based on the type and amount
    of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site
    and the number of financially viable parties.


 


    Some of our current and former sites have a history of
    commercial and industrial operations, including the use of
    hazardous substances. Groundwater and soil contamination
    resulting from historical operations has been identified at
    several of our current and former facilities and we are
    addressing the cleanup of these sites in cooperation with the
    relevant government agencies.


 


    While our ultimate costs in connection with these sites is
    difficult to predict with complete accuracy, based on our
    current estimates of cleanup costs and our expected allocation
    of these costs, we do not expect costs in connection with these
    superfund sites and contaminated sites to be material.


 


    We may be subject to various state, federal and international
    laws and regulations governing the environment, including those
    restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic
    products. For example, the European Union (“EU”) has
    enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous
    Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment
    (“RoHS”), which prohibits the use of certain
    substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard
    drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006 as well as the
    Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”)
    directive, which makes producers of electrical goods, including
    disc drives, financially responsible for specified collection,
    recycling, treatment and disposal of past and future covered
    products. Similar legislation has been or may be enacted in
    other jurisdictions, including in the United States, Canada,
    Mexico, China and Japan. We will need to ensure that we comply
    with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our
    component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and
    regulations. If we fail to timely comply with the legislation,
    our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would
    have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Executive
    Officers


 


    The following sets forth the name, age and position of each of
    the persons who were serving as executive officers as of
    August 10, 2007. There are no family relationships among
    any of our executive officers.


 




     	
     	
     	




    William D. Watkins
    Chief Executive Officer and Director
    age 54



 


    Mr. Watkins has been Chief
    Executive Officer since 2004, and a Director of Seagate since
    2000. Prior to that, he was President and Chief Executive
    Officer from 2004 to 2006; President and Chief Operating Officer
    from 2000 to 2004; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
    Officer from 1998 to 2000; and Executive Vice President,
    Recording Media Operations from 1996 to 1998.
    





    David A. Wickersham 
    President and Chief
    Operating Officer
    age 51



 


    Mr. Wickersham has been President
    since 2006 and Chief Operating Officer since 2004.  Prior to
    that, he was Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice
    President from 2004 to 2006; Executive Vice President, Global
    Disc Storage Operations from 2000 to 2004, Senior Vice
    President, Worldwide Product Line Management from 1999 to 2000;
    and Senior Vice President, Worldwide Materials from 1998 to 1999.
    





    Charles C. Pope
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
    age 52



 


    Mr. Pope has been Executive Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer since 1999.  From 1998 to
    1999 he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
    Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President Finance, Storage
    Products from 1997 to 1998; Vice President Finance, Storage
    Products from 1996 to 1997; Vice President/General Manager,
    Media from 1994 to 1996; Vice President Finance and Treasurer
    from 1991 to 1994; and Vice President, Finance Far East
    Operations from 1989 to 1991.
    





    Brian S. Dexheimer
    Executive Vice President and Chief Sales & Marketing
    Officer
    age 44



 


    Mr. Dexheimer has been Executive
    Vice President and Chief Sales & Marketing Officer since
    2006.  Prior to that he was Executive Vice President, Storage
    Business and Worldwide Sales, Marketing and Customer Service
    from 2005 to 2006; Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales,
    Marketing and Customer Service from 2000 to 2005; Senior Vice
    President, Worldwide Sales from 1999 to 2000; Senior Vice
    President, Personal Storage Group/Product Line Management from
    1998 to 1999; Vice President, and General Manager, Removable
    Storage Solutions from 1997 to 1998.
    





    Todd A. Abbott
    Executive Vice Present, Sales, Marketing and Customer Service
    age 48



 


    Mr. Abbott has been Executive Vice
    President, Sales, Marketing and Customer Service since 2007.
    Prior to joining Seagate, he was Senior Vice President of
    Worldwide Sales for Symbol Technologies from 2002 to 2006; Group
    Vice President in the sales organization for Cisco Systems from
    2001 to 2002; and held other senior positions in the sales
    organization at Cisco from 1994 to 2001.
    





    William L. Hudson
    Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate
    Secretary
    age 55



 


    Mr. Hudson has been Executive Vice
    President since November 2002, and General Counsel and Corporate
    Secretary since January 2000.  Prior to that he was Senior Vice
    President, General Counsel and Secretary from January 2000 to
    November 2002.
    





    
    15



Table of Contents






     	
     	
     	




    Robert Whitmore
    Executive Vice President and Chief Technical Officer
    age 45



 


    Mr. Whitmore has been Executive
    Vice President Product and Process Development and Chief
    Technical Officer since 2007.  Prior to that he was Executive
    Vice President, Product and Process Development from 2006 to
    2007; Senior Vice President, Product and Process Development
    from 2004 to 2006; Senior Vice President, Product Development
    Engineering from 2002 to 2004; Vice President, Enterprise
    Storage Design Engineering from 1999 to 2002, Vice President and
    Executive Director, Twin Cities Manufacturing Operations from
    1997 to 1999; Senior Director, Manufacturing Engineering,
    Singapore Operations from 1995 to 1997; and Senior Manager,
    Design Engineering, Twin Cities Division from 1992 to 1995.
    





    Jaroslaw S. Glembocki
    Senior Vice President, Recording Heads and Media Operations
    age 51



 


    Mr. Glembocki has been Senior Vice
    President, Recording Heads and Media Operations since 2000.
    Prior to that he was Senior Vice President/General Manager,
    Recording Media Group, from 1997 to 2000; and Vice President,
    Engineering and CTO Media from 1996 to 1997.
    





    W. David Mosley
    Senior Vice President, Global Disc Storage Operations
    age 41



 


    Mr. Mosley has been Senior Vice
    President, Global Disc Storage Operations since 2007.  Prior to
    that, he was Vice President, Research and Development,
    Engineering from 2002 to 2007; Senior Director, Research and
    Development, Engineering from 2000 to 2002; Director, Research
    and Development, Engineering from 1998 to 2000; and Manager,
    Operations and Manufacturing from 1996 to 1998.
    





    Patrick J. O’Malley
    Senior Vice President, Finance, Principal Accounting Officer and
    Treasurer
    age 45



 


    Mr. O’Malley has been Senior
    Vice President, Finance since October 2005, and assumed the
    additional roles of Principal Accounting Officer and Treasurer
    in 2006.  Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President, Consumer
    Electronics from 2004 to 2005; Senior Vice President, Finance,
    Manufacturing from 1999 to 2004; Vice President,
    Finance-Recording Media from 1997 to 1999; Senior Director
    Finance, Desktop Design, from 1996 to 1997; Senior Director,
    Finance, Oklahoma City Operations from 1994 to 1996; Director of
    Finance/ Manager, Corporate Financial Planning & Analysis
    from 1991 to 1994; Manager, Consolidations & Cost
    Accounting from 1990 to 1991; Manager, Consolidations from 1988
    to 1990; and Senior Financial Analyst in 1988.
    





    Glen A. Peterson
    Senior Vice President, Worldwide Finance age 45



 


    Mr. Peterson has been Senior Vice
    President, Worldwide Finance since January 2004.  Prior to that,
    he was Vice President, Finance and Treasurer from 1998 to 2004;
    and Director, Strategic Planning from 1995 to 1998.
    








 



    Financial
    Information


 


    Financial information for the Company’s reportable business
    segments and about geographic areas is set forth in
    “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data — Note 6, Business Segment and
    Geographic Information.”


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Availability of Reports.  We are a reporting
    company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    and we file reports, proxy statements and other information with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
    The public may read and copy any of our filings at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the
    operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    Because the Company makes filings to the SEC electronically, you
    may access this information at the SEC’s Internet site:
    www.sec.gov. This site contains reports, proxies and
    information statements and other information regarding issuers
    that file electronically with the SEC.


 


    Web Site Access.  Our Internet web site address
    is www.seagate.com. We make available, free of charge at the
    “Investor Relations” portion of this web site, annual
    reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Reports of beneficial
    ownership filed pursuant to Section 16(a) of the
    1934 Act are also available on our web site. Information
    in, or that can be accessed through, our web site is not part of
    this annual report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Corporate
    Information


 


    We were formed in 2000 as an exempted company incorporated with
    limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands.



    16



Table of Contents








 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 



    Risks
    Related to Our Business


 



    Competition —
    Our industry is highly competitive and our products have
    experienced and will continue to experience significant price
    erosion and market share variability.


 


    Even during periods when demand is stable, the disc drive
    industry is intensely competitive and vendors typically
    experience substantial price erosion over the life of a product.
    Our competitors have historically offered existing products at
    lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market
    share and customers, and we expect these practices to continue.
    We will need to continually reduce our prices to retain our
    market share, which could adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 


    We believe this basic industry condition of continuing price
    erosion and market share variability will continue, as our
    competitors engage in aggressive pricing actions targeted to
    encourage shifting of customer demand. As a result, the pricing
    environment in 2007 continued to be very competitive, especially
    in the March and June 2007 quarters in the mobile compute market
    and the market for high capacity 3.5-inch ATA disc drives, and
    we expect pricing to remain competitive for the remainder of
    fiscal year 2008 as our competitors continue these efforts.


 


    To the extent that historical price erosion patterns continue,
    product life cycles may lengthen, our competitors may have more
    time to enter the market for a particular product and we may be
    unable to offset these factors with new product introductions at
    higher average prices. A second general industry trend that may
    contribute to increased average price erosion is the growth of
    sales to distributors that serve producers of non-branded
    products in the personal storage sector. These customers
    generally have limited product qualification programs, which
    increases the number of competing products available to satisfy
    their demand. As a result, purchasing decisions for these
    customers are based largely on price and terms. Any increase in
    our average price erosion would have an adverse effect on our
    result of operations.


 


    Additionally, a significant portion of our success in the past
    has been a result of increasing our market share at the expense
    of our competitors, particularly in the notebook and small form
    factor enterprise markets. Our market share for our products can
    be negatively affected by our customers’ diversifying their
    sources of supply as our competitors enter the market for
    particular products. When our competitors successfully introduce
    product offerings, which are competitive with our recently
    introduced new products, our customers may quickly diversify
    their sources of supply. Any significant decline in our market
    share would adversely affect our results of operations.


 



    Principal
    Competitors — We compete with both independent
    manufacturers, whose primary focus is producing technologically
    advanced disc drives, and captive manufacturers, who do not
    depend solely on sales of disc drives to maintain their
    profitability.


 


    We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense
    competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies,
    including other independent disc drive manufacturers and large
    captive manufacturers such as:


 




     	
     	
     	




    Independent



 



    Captive




 





    Western Digital Corporation
    



 


    Fujitsu Limited
    





    GS Magicstor Inc. 
    



 


    Hitachi Global Storage
    Technologies
    Samsung Electronics Incorporated
    Toshiba Corporation
    








 


    The term “independent” in this context refers to
    manufacturers that primarily produce disc drives as a
    stand-alone product, and the term “captive” refers to
    disc drive manufacturers who themselves or through affiliated
    entities produce complete computer or other systems that contain
    disc drives or other information storage products. Captive
    manufacturers are formidable competitors because they have the
    ability to determine pricing for complete systems without regard
    to the margins on individual components. Because components
    other than disc drives generally contribute a greater portion of
    the operating margin on a complete computer system than do disc
    drives, captive manufacturers do not necessarily need to realize
    a profit on the disc drives included in a computer system and,
    as a result, may be willing to sell disc drives to third parties
    at very low margins. Many captive manufacturers are also
    formidable competitors because they have more substantial
    resources than we do. In addition, Samsung and



    
    17



Table of Contents




    Hitachi (together with affiliated entities) also sell other
    products to our customers, including critical components like
    flash memory, ASICs and flat panel displays, and may be willing
    to sell their disc drives at a lower margin to advance their
    overall business strategy. This may improve their ability to
    compete with us. To the extent we are not successful competing
    with captive or independent disc drive manufacturers, our
    results of operations will be adversely affected.


 


    In addition, in response to customer demand for high-quality,
    high-volume and low-cost disc drives, manufacturers of disc
    drives have had to develop large, in some cases global,
    production facilities with highly developed technological
    capabilities and internal controls. The development of large
    production facilities and industry consolidation can contribute
    to the intensification of competition. We also face indirect
    competition from present and potential customers who evaluate
    from time to time whether to manufacture their own disc drives
    or other information storage products.


 


    We have also experienced competition from other companies that
    produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory,
    where increased capacity, improving cost, lower power
    consumption and performance ruggedness have resulted in
    competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disc
    drives in handheld applications. While this competition has
    traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer
    electronics applications like personal media players, these
    competitors have recently announced SSD products for notebook
    and enterprise compute applications. Some of these companies,
    like Samsung, also sell disc drives.


 



    Volatility
    of Quarterly Results — Our quarterly operating results
    fluctuate significantly from period to period, and this may
    cause our shares prices to decline.


 


    In the past, our quarterly revenue and operating results have
    fluctuated significantly from period to period. We expect this
    fluctuation to continue for a variety of reasons, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    competitive pressures resulting in lower selling prices by our
    competitors targeted to encourage shifting of customer demand;



 


     
        • 

    
    delays or problems in the introduction of our new products,
    particularly new disc drives with lower cost structures due to
    inability to achieve high production yields, delays in customer
    qualification or initial product quality issues;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in purchasing patterns by our distributor customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    increased costs or adverse changes in availability of supplies
    of raw materials or components;



 


     
        • 

    
    the impact of corporate restructuring activities that we may
    engage in;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in the demand for the computer systems, storage
    subsystems and consumer electronics that contain our disc
    drives, due to seasonality and other factors;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in purchases from period to period by our primary
    customers, particularly, as our competitors are able to
    introduce and produce in volume competing disc drive solutions
    or alternative storage technology solutions, such as flash
    memory or SSDs;



 


     
        • 

    
    shifting trends in customer demand which, when combined with
    overproduction of particular products, particularly at times
    such as the present time when the industry is served by multiple
    suppliers, results in supply/demand imbalances;



 


     
        • 

    
    adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United
    States and other major regions in which we do business;



 


     
        • 

    
    our high proportion of fixed costs, including research and
    development expenses; and



 


     
        • 

    
    announcements of new products, services or technological
    innovations by us or our competitors.





 


    As a result, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of
    our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful, and
    that these comparisons may not be an accurate indicator of our
    future performance. Our operating



    
    18



Table of Contents




    results in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the
    expectations of investment research analysts or investors, which
    could cause an immediate and significant decline in the trading
    price of our common shares.


 



    New
    Product Offerings — Market acceptance of new product
    introductions cannot be accurately predicted, and our results of
    operations will suffer if there is less demand for our new
    products than is anticipated.


 


    We are continually developing new products with the goal that we
    will be able to introduce technologically advanced and lower
    cost disc drives into the marketplace ahead of our competitors.
    We are particularly depending on the successful introduction,
    qualification and volume sales of new lower cost products for
    our results in the next few quarters.


 


    The success of our new product introductions is dependent on a
    number of factors, including market acceptance, our ability to
    manage the risks associated with product transitions, the
    effective management of inventory levels in line with
    anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products
    will have quality problems or other defects in the early stages
    of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those
    products. Accordingly, we cannot accurately determine the
    ultimate effect that our new products will have on our results
    of operations.


 


    In addition, the success of our new product introductions is
    dependent upon our ability to qualify as a primary source of
    supply with our OEM customers. In order for our products to be
    considered by our customers for qualification, we must be among
    the leaders in time-to-market with those new products. Once a
    product is accepted for qualification testing, any failure or
    delay in the qualification process or a requirement that we
    requalify can result in our losing sales to that customer until
    new products are introduced. The limited number of high-volume
    OEMs magnifies the effect of missing a product qualification
    opportunity. These risks are further magnified because we expect
    competitive pressures to result in declining sales and declining
    gross margins on our current generation products. We cannot
    assure you that we will be among the leaders in time-to-market
    with new products or that we will be able to successfully
    qualify new products with our customers in the future.


 



    Smaller
    Form Factor Disc Drives — If we do not continue
    to successfully market smaller form factor disc drives, our
    business may suffer.


 


    The disc drive industry is experiencing significant increases in
    sales of smaller form factor disc drives for an expanding number
    of applications, in particular notebook computers and consumer
    electronics devices, but also including personal computers and
    enterprise storage applications. Much of our recent revenue
    growth is derived from the sale of drives for small form factor
    drives for notebook and enterprise applications.


 


    We have experienced competition from other companies that
    produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory,
    where increased capacity, improving cost, lower power
    consumption and performance ruggedness have resulted in
    competition with our lower capacity, smaller form factor disc
    drives in handheld applications. This competition has largely
    replaced disc drive products smaller than 1.8-inch with flash
    memory. However, we believe that disc drives continue to be well
    suited in applications requiring capacities of 20 gigabytes or
    more and that the demand for additional storage to store, hold
    or back up related media content from such handheld devices
    using flash memory, continues to grow. While this competition
    has traditionally been in the markets for handheld consumer
    electronics applications like digital music players and personal
    media players, these competitors are also attempting to
    introduce SSD products for notebook and enterprise compute
    applications.


 


    If we do not suitably adapt our product offerings to
    successfully introduce additional smaller form factor disc
    drives or alternative storage products based on flash storage
    technology, or if flash competitors are successful in achieving
    customer acceptance of SSD products for notebook and enterprise
    compute applications, customers may decrease the amounts of our
    products that they purchase which would adversely affect our
    results of operations.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    Perpendicular
    Recording Technology — If products based on this
    technology suffer unanticipated or atypical reliability or
    operability problems, our operating results will be adversely
    impacted. In addition, products based on perpendicular
    technology require increased quantities of precious metals and
    scarce alloys like platinum and ruthenium which increases risk
    of higher costs and production delays that could adversely
    impact our operating results.


 


    In fiscal year 2007, we converted more than half of our products
    to products using perpendicular technology and we expect that by
    the end of fiscal year 2008 that all of our products will be
    based on perpendicular technology. Perpendicular recording
    technology poses various technological challenges including a
    complex integration of the recording head, the disc, recording
    channel and drive firmware as a system.


 


    If these perpendicular technology based products suffer
    unanticipated or atypical failures that were not anticipated in
    the design of those products, our service and warranty costs may
    materially increase which would adversely impact our operating
    results.


 


    Perpendicular recording technology also requires recording media
    with more layers and the use of more precious metals and scarce
    alloys like platinum and ruthenium to create such layers. These
    precious metals and scarce alloys have recently become
    increasingly expensive and at times difficult to acquire. As our
    product offerings shift increasingly to perpendicular
    technology, we will be exposed to increased risks that higher
    costs or reduced availability of these precious metals and
    scarce alloys could adversely impact our operating results.


 



    Seasonality —
    Because we experience seasonality in the sales of our products,
    our results of operations will generally be adversely impacted
    during our fourth fiscal quarter.


 


    Because sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and
    consumer electronics tend to be seasonal, we expect to continue
    to experience seasonality in our business as we respond to
    variations in our customers’ demand for disc drives. In
    particular, we anticipate that sales of our products will
    continue to be lower during our fourth fiscal quarter than the
    rest of the year. In the desktop computer, notebook computer and
    consumer electronics sectors of our business, this seasonality
    is partially attributable to our customers’ increased sales
    of personal computers and consumer electronics during the winter
    holiday season. In the enterprise sector of our business, our
    sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and
    purchasing cycles of our end users. Because our working capital
    needs peak during periods in which we are increasing production
    in anticipation of orders that have not yet been received, our
    operating results will fluctuate seasonally even if the
    forecasted demand for our products proves accurate.


 


    Furthermore, it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to
    which this seasonality may affect our business in future periods
    because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions
    and new product introductions, particularly in the consumer
    electronics market.


 



    Difficulty
    in Predicting Quarterly Demand — If we fail to predict
    demand accurately for our products in any quarter, we may not be
    able to recapture the cost of our investments.


 


    The disc drive industry operates on quarterly purchasing cycles,
    with much of the order flow in any given quarter coming at the
    end of that quarter. Our manufacturing process requires us to
    make significant product-specific investments in inventory in
    each quarter for that quarter’s production. Because we
    typically receive the bulk of our orders late in a quarter after
    we have made our investments, there is a risk that our orders
    will not be sufficient to allow us to recapture the costs of our
    investment before the products resulting from that investment
    have become obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be able
    to accurately predict demand in the future.


 


    Other factors that may negatively impact our ability to
    recapture the cost of investments in any given quarter include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the impact of variable demand and the aggressive pricing
    environment for disc drives;



 


     
        • 

    
    the impact of competitive product announcements and possible
    excess industry supply both with respect to particular disc
    drive products (particularly now that there are no material
    limitations on disc drive






    
    20



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    component supply for our competitors), and with respect to
    competing alternative storage technology solutions such as SSDs
    in notebook and enterprise applications;





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match sales in any
    quarter because of our vertical manufacturing strategy, which
    means that we make more capital investments than we would if we
    were not vertically integrated;



 


     
        • 

    
    dependence on our ability to successfully qualify, manufacture
    and sell in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and
    with acceptable quality its disc drive products, particularly
    the new disc drive products with lower cost structures;



 


     
        • 

    
    uncertainty in the amount of purchases from our distributor
    customers who from time to time constitute a large portion of
    our total sales;



 


     
        • 

    
    our product mix and the related margins of the various products;



 


     
        • 

    
    accelerated reduction in the price of our disc drives due to
    technological advances
    and/or an
    oversupply of disc drives in the market, a condition that is
    exacerbated when the industry is served by multiple suppliers
    and shifting trends in demand which can create supply demand
    imbalances;



 


     
        • 

    
    manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our major
    manufacturing facilities in China, Malaysia, Singapore and
    Thailand;



 


     
        • 

    
    variations in the cost of components for our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a
    limited number of suppliers;



 


     
        • 

    
    the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the
    cost of producing our products and the effective price of our
    products to foreign consumers; and



 


     
        • 

    
    operational issues arising out of the increasingly automated
    nature of our manufacturing processes.





 



    Dependence
    on Sales of Disc Drives in Consumer Electronics
    Applications — Our sales of disc drives for consumer
    electronics applications which have contributed significant
    revenues to our results, can experience significant volatility
    due to seasonal and other factors which could materially
    adversely impact our future results of operations.


 


    Our sales of disc drives for consumer electronics applications
    have contributed significant revenues to our results for the
    past several years. The growth rate in consumer electronics
    products has recently begun to moderate and show more seasonal
    demand variability. The demand for consumer electronics products
    can be even more volatile and unpredictable than the demand for
    compute products. In some cases, our products manufactured for
    consumer electronics applications are uniquely configured for a
    single customer’s applications, which creates a risk of
    exposure if the anticipated volumes are not realized. This
    potential for unpredictable volatility is increased by the
    possibility of competing alternative storage technologies like
    flash memory, meeting the customers’ cost and capacity
    metrics, resulting in a rapid shift in demand from our products
    and disc drive technology, generally, to alternative storage
    technologies. Unpredictable fluctuations in demand for our
    products or rapid shifts in demand from our products to
    alternative storage technologies in new consumer electronics
    applications could materially adversely impact our future
    results of operations.


 



    Dependence
    on Supply of Components, Equipment, and Raw
    Materials — If we experience shortages or delays in
    the receipt of critical components, equipment or raw materials
    necessary to manufacture our products, we may suffer lower
    operating margins, production delays and other material adverse
    effects.


 


    The cost, quality and availability of components, certain
    equipment and raw materials used to manufacture disc drives and
    key components like recording media and heads are critical to
    our success. The equipment we use to manufacture our products
    and components is frequently custom made and comes from a few
    suppliers and the lead times required to obtain manufacturing
    equipment can be significant. Particularly important components
    for disc drives include read/write heads, aluminum or glass
    substrates for recording media, ASICs, spindle motors, printed
    circuit boards and suspension assemblies. We rely on sole
    suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for some of



    
    21



Table of Contents




    these components, including recording media and aluminum and
    glass substrates that we do not manufacture, ASICs, spindle
    motors, printed circuit boards and suspension assemblies.
    Recently, substantially all of our purchases of recording media
    and a significant portion of our aluminum substrates from
    third-party suppliers have been sourced from Komag, which is in
    the process of being acquired by Western Digital. There can be
    no assurance that we will continue to be able to obtain
    alternative supply following the purchase of Komag by Western
    Digital.


 


    In the past, we have experienced increased costs and production
    delays when we were unable to obtain the necessary equipment or
    sufficient quantities of some components
    and/or have
    been forced to pay higher prices or make volume purchase
    commitments or advance deposits for some components, equipment
    or raw materials, such as precious metals like platinum and
    ruthenium, that were in short supply in the industry in general.


 


    Historically, the technology sector specifically, and the
    economy generally have experienced economic pressure, which has
    resulted in consolidation among component manufacturers and may
    result in some component manufacturers exiting the industry or
    not making sufficient investments in research to develop new
    components.


 


    If there is a shortage of, or delay in supplying us with,
    critical components, equipment or raw materials, then:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    it is likely that our suppliers would raise their prices and, if
    we could not pass these price increases to our customers, our
    operating margin would decline;



 


     
        • 

    
    we might have to reengineer some products, which would likely
    cause production and shipment delays, make the reengineered
    products more costly and provide us with a lower rate of return
    on these products;



 


     
        • 

    
    we would likely have to allocate the components we receive to
    certain of our products and ship less of others, which could
    reduce our revenues and could cause us to lose sales to
    customers who could purchase more of their required products
    from manufacturers that either did not experience these
    shortages or delays or that made different allocations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    we might be late in shipping products, causing potential
    customers to make purchases from our competitors, thus causing
    our revenue and operating margin to decline.





 


    We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain critical
    components in a timely and economic manner, or at all.


 



    Importance
    of Reducing Operating Costs — If we do not reduce our
    operating expenses, we will not be able to compete effectively
    in our industry.


 


    Our strategy involves, to a substantial degree, increasing
    revenue and product volume while at the same time reducing
    operating expenses. In the past, these activities have included
    closures and transfers of facilities, significant personnel
    reductions and efforts to increase automation. Moreover, the
    reduction of personnel and closure of facilities may adversely
    affect our ability to manufacture our products in required
    volumes to meet customer demand and may result in other
    disruptions that affect our products and customer service. In
    addition, the transfer of manufacturing capacity of a product to
    a different facility frequently requires qualification of the
    new facility by some of our OEM customers. We cannot assure you
    that these activities and transfers will be implemented on a
    cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in our
    production and without adversely affecting our customer
    relationships and results of operations.


 



    Industry
    Demand — Changes in demand for computer systems and
    storage subsystems has caused and may cause in the future a
    decline in demand for our products.


 


    Our disc drives are components in computers, computer systems,
    storage subsystems and consumer electronics devices. The demand
    for these products has been volatile. In a weak economy,
    consumer spending tends to decline and retail demand for
    personal computers and consumer electronics devices tends to
    decrease, as does enterprise demand for computer systems and
    storage subsystems. Unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer
    systems and storage subsystems generally cause sharp declines in
    demand for disc drive products.



    
    22



Table of Contents




    Additional causes of declines in demand for our products in the
    past have included announcements or introductions of major new
    operating systems or semiconductor improvements or changes in
    consumer preferences, such as the shift from desktop to notebook
    computers. We believe these announcements and introductions have
    from time to time caused consumers to defer their purchases and
    made inventory obsolete. Whenever an oversupply of disc drives
    causes participants in our industry to have higher than
    anticipated inventory levels, we experience even more intense
    price competition from other disc drive manufacturers than usual.


 



    Dependence
    on Distributors — We are dependent on sales to
    distributors, which may increase price erosion and the
    volatility of our sales.


 


    A substantial portion of our sales has been to distributors of
    desktop disc drive products. Product qualification programs in
    this distribution channel are limited, which increases the
    number of competing products that are available to satisfy
    demand, particularly in times of lengthening product cycles. As
    a result, purchasing decisions in this channel are based largely
    on price, terms and product availability. Sales volumes through
    this channel are also less predictable and subject to greater
    volatility than sales to our OEM customers.


 


    To the extent that distributors reduce their purchases of our
    products or prices decline significantly in the distribution
    channel, and to the extent that our distributor relationships
    are terminated, our revenues and results of operations would be
    adversely affected.


 



    Importance
    of Time-to-Market — Our operating results may depend
    on our being among the first-to-market and achieving sufficient
    production volume with our new products.


 


    To achieve consistent success with our OEM customers, it is
    important that we be an early provider of new types of disc
    drives featuring leading, high-quality technology and lower per
    gigabyte storage cost. Historically, our operating results have
    substantially depended upon our ability to be among the
    first-to-market with new product offerings. Our market share and
    operating results in the future may be adversely affected if we
    fail to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consistently maintain our time-to-market performance with our
    new products;



 


     
        • 

    
    produce these products in sufficient volume;



 


     
        • 

    
    qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by
    meeting our customers’ performance and quality
    specifications; or



 


     
        • 

    
    achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, quality and costs with
    these products.





 


    If delivery of our products is delayed, our OEM customers may
    use our competitors’ products to meet their production
    requirements. If the delay of our products causes delivery of
    those OEMs’ computer systems into which our products are
    integrated to be delayed, consumers and businesses may purchase
    comparable products from the OEMs’ competitors.


 


    Moreover, we face the related risk that consumers and businesses
    may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a new
    product that has been shipped or announced but not yet released.
    If this were to occur, we may be unable to sell our existing
    inventory of products that may have become less efficient and
    cost effective compared to new products. As a result, even if we
    are among the first-to-market with a given product, subsequent
    introductions or announcements by our competitors of new
    products could cause us to lose revenue and not achieve a
    positive return on our investment in existing products and
    inventory.


 



    Accounting
    Charges and Pre-Acquisition Contingencies not Previously
    Identified Related to Acquisition of Maxtor — We
    expect the acquisition of Maxtor with Seagate will continue to
    result in additional accounting charges, that may continue to
    have an adverse effect on our fiscal year 2008 operating
    results.


 


    We expect that, as a result of the acquisition of Maxtor, our
    fiscal year 2008 results of operations will continue to be
    adversely affected by non-cash accounting charges, the most
    significant of which relates to the amortization of acquired
    intangible assets. In addition, pre-acquisition contingencies
    not previously identified will adversely affect our results of
    operations.



    
    23



Table of Contents





    Dependence
    on Key Customers — We may be adversely affected by the
    loss of, or reduced, delayed or cancelled purchases by, one or
    more of our larger customers.


 


    Some of our key customers, including HP, Dell, Sony Corporation
    (“Sony”), EMC and IBM, account for a large portion of
    our disc drive revenue. Our recent acquisition of Maxtor may
    increase our business with certain of our larger customers. We
    have longstanding relationships with many of our customers,
    however, if any of our key customers were to significantly
    reduce their purchases from us, our results of operations would
    be adversely affected. While sales to major customers may vary
    from period to period, a major customer that permanently
    discontinues or significantly reduces its relationship with us
    could be difficult to replace. In line with industry practice,
    new customers usually require that we pass a lengthy and
    rigorous qualification process at the customer’s cost.
    Accordingly, it may be difficult or costly for us to attract new
    major customers. Additionally, mergers, acquisitions,
    consolidations or other significant transactions involving our
    customers generally entail risks to our business. If a
    significant transaction involving any of our key customers
    results in the loss of or reduction in purchases by these key
    customers, it could have a materially adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations, financial condition and
    prospects.


 



    Impact
    of Technological Change — Increases in the areal
    density of disc drives may outpace customers’ demand for
    storage capacity.


 


    The rate of increase in areal density, or storage capacity per
    square inch on a disc, may be greater than the increase in our
    customers’ demand for aggregate storage capacity,
    particularly in certain market applications like commercial
    desktop compute. As a result, our customers’ storage
    capacity needs may be satisfied with lower priced, low capacity
    disc drives. These factors could decrease our sales, especially
    when combined with continued price erosion, which could
    adversely affect our results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in Information Storage Products — Future changes in
    the nature of information storage products may reduce demand for
    traditional disc drive products.


 


    We expect that in the future, new personal computing devices and
    products will be developed, some of which, such as Internet
    appliances, may not contain a disc drive. While we are investing
    development resources in designing disc drives for new
    applications, it is too early to assess the impact of these new
    applications on future demand for disc drive products. Products
    using alternative technologies, such as flash memory, optical
    storage and other storage technologies could become a
    significant source of competition to particular applications of
    our products, which could adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 



    New
    Product Development and Technological Change — If we
    do not develop products in time to keep pace with technological
    changes, our operating results will be adversely
    affected.


 


    Our customers have demanded new generations of disc drive
    products as advances in computer hardware and software have
    created the need for improved storage products, with features
    such as increased storage capacity, improved performance and
    reliability and lower cost. We, and our competitors, have
    developed improved products, and we will need to continue to do
    so in the future. For the fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005, we
    had product development expenses of $904 million,
    $805 million and $645 million, respectively. We cannot
    assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the
    design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that
    we will be able to manufacture new products in sufficient
    volumes with acceptable manufacturing yields, that we will be
    able to successfully market these new products or that these
    products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. In
    addition, the impact of slowing areal density growth may
    adversely impact our ability to be successful.


 


    When we develop new products with higher capacity and more
    advanced technology, our operating results may decline because
    the increased difficulty and complexity associated with
    producing these products increases the likelihood of
    reliability, quality or operability problems. If our products
    suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not
    reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products
    and our manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and
    warranty costs may increase. In addition, a decline in the
    reliability of our products may make us less competitive as
    compared with other disc drive manufacturers.



    
    24



Table of Contents





    Risks
    Associated with Future Acquisitions — We may not be
    able to identify suitable strategic alliance, acquisition or
    investment opportunities, or successfully acquire and integrate
    companies that provide complementary products or
    technologies.


 


    Our growth strategy may involve pursuing strategic alliances
    with, and making acquisitions of or investments in, other
    companies that are complementary to our business. There is
    substantial competition for attractive strategic alliance,
    acquisition and investment candidates. We may not be able to
    identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic
    partnership candidates. Even if we were able to identify them,
    we cannot assure you that we will be able to partner with,
    acquire or invest in suitable candidates, or integrate acquired
    technologies or operations successfully into our existing
    technologies and operations. Our ability to finance potential
    acquisitions will be limited by our high degree of leverage, the
    covenants contained in the indentures that govern our
    outstanding indebtedness, the credit agreement that governs our
    senior secured credit facilities and any agreements governing
    any other debt we may incur.


 


    If we are successful in acquiring other companies, these
    acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our operating
    results, particularly while the operations of the acquired
    business are being integrated. It is also likely that
    integration of acquired companies would lead to the loss of key
    employees from those companies or the loss of customers of those
    companies. In addition, the integration of any acquired
    companies would require substantial attention from our senior
    management, which may limit the amount of time available to be
    devoted to our day-to-day operations or to the execution of our
    strategy. Growth by acquisition involves an even higher degree
    of risk to the extent we combine new product offerings and enter
    new markets in which we have limited experience, and no
    assurance can be given that acquisitions of entities with new or
    alternative business models, such as our recent acquisition of
    EVault, will be successfully integrated or achieve their stated
    objectives. Furthermore, the expansion of our business involves
    the risk that we might not manage our growth effectively, that
    we would incur additional debt to finance these acquisitions or
    investments and that we would incur substantial charges relating
    to the write-off of in-process research and development, similar
    to that which we incurred in connection with several of our
    prior acquisitions. Each of these items could have a material
    adverse effect on our financial position and results of
    operations.


 


    In addition, we could issue additional common shares in
    connection with future acquisitions. For example, in May 2006,
    we issued approximately 97 million of our common shares in
    connection with our acquisition of Maxtor Corporation. Issuing
    shares in connection with acquisitions would have the effect of
    diluting your ownership percentage of the common shares and
    could cause the price of our common shares to decline.


 



    Risk
    of Intellectual Property Litigation — Our products may
    infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may
    cause us to incur unexpected costs or prevent us from selling
    our products.


 


    We cannot be certain that our products do not and will not
    infringe issued patents or other intellectual property rights of
    others. Historically, patent applications in the United States
    and some foreign countries have not been publicly disclosed
    until the patent is issued, and we may not be aware of currently
    filed patent applications that relate to our products or
    technology. If patents are later issued on these applications,
    we may be liable for infringement. We may be subject to legal
    proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement
    of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property
    rights of third parties by us, or our licensees in connection
    with their use of our products.


 



    We are
    currently subject to lawsuits involving intellectual property
    claims brought by Convolve, Inc. and the Massachusetts Institute
    of Technology in the United States, Shao Tong in Nanjing, China
    and Siemens AG and StorMedia Texas LLC in the United States
    which could cause us to incur significant additional costs or
    prevent us from selling our products; which could adversely
    effect our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    Intellectual property litigation is expensive and
    time-consuming, regardless of the merits of any claim, and could
    divert our management’s attention from operating our
    business. In addition, intellectual property lawsuits are
    subject to inherent uncertainties due to the complexity of the
    technical issues involved, and we cannot assure you that we will
    be successful in defending ourselves against intellectual
    property claims. Moreover, patent litigation



    
    25



Table of Contents




    has increased due to the current uncertainty of the law and the
    increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in
    the field. If we were to discover that our products infringe the
    intellectual property rights of others, we would need to obtain
    licenses from these parties or substantially reengineer our
    products in order to avoid infringement. We might not be able to
    obtain the necessary licenses on acceptable terms, or at all, or
    be able to reengineer our products successfully. Moreover, if we
    are sued for patent infringement and lose the suit, we could be
    required to pay substantial damages
    and/or be
    enjoined from using or selling the infringing products or
    technology. Any of the foregoing could cause us to incur
    significant costs and prevent us from selling our products which
    could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    Dependence
    on Key Personnel — The loss of some key executive
    officers and employees could negatively impact our business
    prospects.


 


    Our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the
    continued service of key members of management as well as
    marketing, sales and product development personnel. The loss of
    one or more of our key personnel would have a material adverse
    effect on our business, operating results and financial
    condition. We believe our future success will also depend in
    large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further
    motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and product
    development personnel. We have experienced intense competition
    for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to
    retain our key employees or that we will be successful in
    attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future.


 



    Substantial
    Leverage — Our substantial leverage may place us at a
    competitive disadvantage in our industry.


 


    We are leveraged and have significant debt service obligations.
    Our significant debt and debt service requirements could
    adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may
    limit our ability to take advantage of potential business
    opportunities. For example, our high level of debt presents the
    following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we are required to use a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt,
    thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund
    working capital, capital expenditures, product development
    efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances and
    other general corporate requirements;



 


     
        • 

    
    our interest expense could increase if prevailing interest rates
    increase, because a substantial portion of our debt bears
    interest at floating rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    our substantial leverage increases our vulnerability to economic
    downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and
    could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those
    of our competitors that are less leveraged;



 


     
        • 

    
    our debt service obligations could limit our flexibility in
    planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our
    industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business
    opportunities, borrow more money for operations or capital in
    the future and implement our business strategies;



 


     
        • 

    
    our level of debt may restrict us from raising additional
    financing on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital
    expenditures, product development efforts, strategic
    acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general
    corporate requirements; and



 


     
        • 

    
    covenants in our debt instruments limit our ability to pay
    dividends or make other restricted payments and investments.





 



    Significant
    Debt Service Requirements — Servicing our debt
    requires a significant amount of cash and our ability to
    generate cash may be affected by factors beyond our
    control.


 


    Our business may not generate cash flow in an amount sufficient
    to enable us to pay the principal of, or interest on, our
    indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, including
    working capital, capital expenditures, product development
    efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and
    other general corporate requirements.



    
    26



Table of Contents




    Our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic,
    financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other
    factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    we will continue to realize the cost savings, revenue growth and
    operating improvements that resulted from the execution of our
    long-term strategic plan; or



 


     
        • 

    
    future sources of funding will be available to us in amounts
    sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs.





 


    If we cannot fund our liquidity needs, we will have to take
    actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures,
    product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments
    and alliances, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our
    debt, or seeking additional equity capital. We cannot assure you
    that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on
    commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, our
    existing debt instruments permit us to incur a significant
    amount of additional debt. If we incur additional debt above the
    levels now in effect, the risks associated with our substantial
    leverage, including the risk that we will be unable to service
    our debt or generate enough cash flow to fund our liquidity
    needs, could intensify.


 



    Restrictions
    Imposed by Debt Covenants — Restrictions imposed by
    our existing credit facility may limit our ability to finance
    future operations or capital needs or engage in other business
    activities that may be in our interest.


 


    Our existing credit facility imposes, and the terms of any
    future debt may impose, operating and other restrictions on us.
    Our existing credit facility may also limit, among other things,
    our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our shares;



 


     
        • 

    
    redeem or repurchase shares;



 


     
        • 

    
    make investments or other restricted payments;



 


     
        • 

    
    sell assets;



 


     
        • 

    
    issue or sell shares of restricted subsidiaries;



 


     
        • 

    
    enter into transactions with affiliates;



 


     
        • 

    
    create liens; and



 


     
        • 

    
    effect a consolidation or merger.





 


    These covenants are subject to a number of important
    qualifications and exceptions, including exceptions that permit
    us to make significant dividends.


 


    Our credit facility also requires us to maintain compliance with
    specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these
    ratios may be affected by events beyond our control.


 


    A breach of any of the covenants described above or our
    inability to comply with the required financial ratios could
    result in a default under our credit facility. If a default
    occurs, the Administrative Agent of the credit facility may
    elect to declare all of our outstanding obligations under the
    credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees,
    to be immediately due and payable. If our outstanding
    indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that
    our assets would be sufficient to repay in full that debt and
    any potential future indebtedness, which would cause the market
    price of our common shares to decline significantly.


 



    System
    Failures — System failures caused by events beyond our
    control could adversely affect computer equipment and electronic
    data on which our operations depend.


 


    Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our
    computer equipment and the information stored in our databases
    from damage by, among other things, earthquake, fire, natural
    disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized
    intrusion and other catastrophic events. As our operations
    become more automated and increasingly interdependent, our
    exposure to the risks posed by these types of events will
    increase. We do not



    
    27



Table of Contents




    have a contingency plan for addressing the kinds of events
    referred to in this paragraph that would be sufficient to
    prevent system failures and other interruptions in our
    operations that could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.


 



    Economic
    Risks Associated with International Operations — Our
    international operations subject us to risks related to currency
    exchange fluctuations, longer payment cycles for sales in
    foreign countries, seasonality and disruptions in foreign
    markets, tariffs and duties, price controls, potential adverse
    tax consequences, increased costs, our customers’ credit
    and access to capital and health-related risks.


 


    We have significant operations in foreign countries, including
    manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support
    operations. We have manufacturing facilities in China, Malaysia,
    Northern Ireland, Singapore and Thailand, in addition to those
    in the United States. A substantial portion of our desktop disc
    drive assembly occurs in our facility in China.


 


    Our international operations are subject to economic risks
    inherent in doing business in foreign countries, including the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Disruptions in Foreign Markets.  Disruptions in
    financial markets and the deterioration of the underlying
    economic conditions in the past in some countries, including
    those in Asia, have had an impact on our sales to customers
    located in, or whose end-user customers are located in, these
    countries.



 


     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in Currency Exchange
    Rates.  Prices for our products are denominated
    predominately in U.S. dollars, even when sold to customers
    that are located outside the United States. Currency instability
    in Asia and other geographic markets may make our products more
    expensive than products sold by other manufacturers that are
    priced in the local currency. Moreover, many of the costs
    associated with our operations located outside the United States
    are denominated in local currencies. As a consequence, the
    increased strength of local currencies against the
    U.S. dollar in countries where we have foreign operations
    would result in higher effective operating costs and,
    potentially, reduced earnings. From time to time, fluctuations
    in foreign exchange rates have negatively affected our
    operations and profitability and there can be no assurance that
    these fluctuations will not adversely affect our operations and
    profitability in the future.



 


     
        • 

    
    Longer Payment Cycles.  Our customers outside
    of the United States are often allowed longer time periods for
    payment than our U.S. customers. This increases the risk of
    nonpayment due to the possibility that the financial condition
    of particular customers may worsen during the course of the
    payment period.



 


     
        • 

    
    Seasonality.  Seasonal reductions in the
    business activities of our customers during the summer months,
    particularly in Europe, typically result in lower earnings
    during those periods.



 


     
        • 

    
    Tariffs, Duties, Limitations on Trade and Price
    Controls.  Our international operations are
    affected by limitations on imports, currency exchange control
    regulations, transfer pricing regulations, price controls and
    other restraints on trade. In addition, the governments of many
    countries, including China, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand, in
    which we have significant operating assets, have exercised and
    continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of
    their domestic economies and international trade.



 


     
        • 

    
    Potential Adverse Tax Consequences.  Our
    international operations create a risk of potential adverse tax
    consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes
    on payments by subsidiaries.



 


     
        • 

    
    Increased Costs.  The shipping and
    transportation costs associated with our international
    operations are typically higher than those associated with our
    U.S. operations, resulting in decreased operating margins
    in some foreign countries.



 


     
        • 

    
    Credit and Access to Capital Risks.  Our
    international customers could have reduced access to working
    capital due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending
    resulting from contractions in the money supply or the
    deterioration in the customer’s or its bank’s
    financial condition, or the inability to access other financing.






    
    28



Table of Contents



 



    Political
    Risks Associated with International Operations — Our
    international operations subject us to risks related to
    political unrest and terrorism.


 


    We have manufacturing facilities in parts of the world that
    periodically experience political unrest. This could disrupt our
    ability to manufacture important components as well as cause
    interruptions
    and/or
    delays in our ability to ship components to other locations for
    continued manufacture and assembly. Any such delays or
    interruptions could result in delays in our ability to fill
    orders and have an adverse effect on our results of operation
    and financial condition. U.S. and international responses
    to the ongoing hostilities in Afghanistan and Iraq and the risk
    of terrorist attacks or hostilities elsewhere in the world could
    exacerbate these risks.


 



    Legal
    and Operational Risks Associated with International
    Operations — Our international operations subject us
    to risks related to staffing and management, legal and
    regulatory requirements and the protection of intellectual
    property.


 


    Operating outside of the United States creates difficulties
    associated with staffing and managing our international
    manufacturing facilities, complying with local legal and
    regulatory requirements and protecting our intellectual
    property. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be found
    to be operating in compliance with applicable customs, currency
    exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or
    any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. We
    also cannot assure you that these laws will not be modified.


 



    SOX
    404 Compliance — While we believe that we currently
    have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still
    exposed to future risks of non-compliance and will continue to
    incur costs associated with Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.


 


    We have completed the evaluation of our internal controls over
    financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Although our assessment, testing,
    and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of
    June 29, 2007, our internal controls over financial
    reporting were effective, we cannot predict the outcome of our
    testing in future periods. If our internal controls are
    ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the
    market price of our shares could be adversely affected. We will
    incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s
    time in connection with further evaluations.


 



    Volatile
    Public Markets — The price of our common shares may be
    volatile and could decline significantly.


 


    The stock market in general, and the market for technology
    stocks in particular, has recently experienced volatility that
    has often been unrelated to the operating performance of
    companies. If these market or industry-based fluctuations
    continue, the trading price of our common shares could decline
    significantly independent of our actual operating performance,
    and you could lose all or a substantial part of your investment.
    The market price of our common shares could fluctuate
    significantly in response to several factors, including among
    others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated variations in our results of operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    announcements of innovations, new products or significant price
    reductions by us or our competitors, including those competitors
    who offer alternative storage technology solutions;



 


     
        • 

    
    our failure to meet the performance estimates of investment
    research analysts;



 


     
        • 

    
    the timing of announcements by us or our competitors of
    significant contracts or acquisitions;



 


     
        • 

    
    general stock market conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    the occurrence of major catastrophic events;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in financial estimates by investment research analysts;
    and



 


     
        • 

    
    the sale of our common shares held by certain equity investors
    or members of management.






    
    29



Table of Contents



 



    Failure
    to Pay Quarterly Dividends — Our failure to pay
    quarterly dividends to our common shareholders could cause the
    market price of our common shares to decline
    significantly.


 


    We paid quarterly dividends aggregating $0.38 per share on
    September 1, 2006, November 17, 2006,
    February 16, 2007 and May 18, 2007 to our common
    shareholders of record as of August 18, 2006,
    November 3, 2006, February 2, 2007 and May 4,
    2007, respectively. On July 19, 2007, we declared a
    quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share that was paid by
    August 17, 2007 to our common shareholders of record as of
    August 3, 2007.


 


    Our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among
    other things, general business conditions within the disc drive
    industry, our financial results, the impact of paying dividends
    on our credit ratings, and legal and contractual restrictions on
    the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us or by us to
    our common shareholders, including restrictions imposed by the
    credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility. Any
    reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause
    the market price of our common shares to decline significantly.
    Our payment of dividends to holders of our common shares may in
    certain future quarters result in upward adjustments to the
    conversion rate of the 2.375% Convertible Senior Notes due
    2012. Moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends
    is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume
    paying dividends at historical levels could result in a
    persistently low market valuation of our common shares.


 



    Potential
    Governmental Action — Governmental action against
    companies located in offshore jurisdictions may lead to a
    reduction in the demand for our common shares.


 


    Recent federal and state legislation has been proposed, and
    additional legislation may be proposed in the future which, if
    enacted, could have an adverse tax impact on either Seagate or
    its shareholders. For example, the eligibility for favorable tax
    treatment of taxable distributions paid to
    U.S. shareholders of Seagate as qualified dividends could
    be eliminated.


 



    Securities
    Litigation — Significant fluctuations in the market
    price of our common shares could result in securities class
    action claims against us.


 


    Significant price and value fluctuations have occurred with
    respect to the publicly traded securities of disc drive
    companies and technology companies generally. The price of our
    common shares is likely to be volatile in the future. In the
    past, following periods of decline in the market price of a
    company’s securities, class action lawsuits have often been
    pursued against that company. If similar litigation were pursued
    against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion
    of management’s attention and resources, which could
    materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial
    condition and liquidity.







 



    ITEM 1B