. Risk Factors.In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors which could materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.  The risks described below are not the only risks we face.  Additional factors not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations in future periods.Worldwide and domestic economic trends and financial market conditionsWe are subject to risks associated with adverse economic conditions, including economic slowdown, inflation, and the disruption, volatility and tightening of credit and capital markets.  Unfavorable global or regional economic conditions could adversely impact our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  Unemployment, tax increases, governmental spending cuts or a return of high levels of inflation could affect consumer spending patterns and purchases of our products.  These could also create or exacerbate credit issues, cash flow issues and other financial hardships for us and our suppliers, distributors, retailers and consumers.  The inability of suppliers, distributors and retailers to access liquidity could impact our ability to produce and distribute our products.  We have a committed credit facility and additional liquidity facilities available to us.  While to date we have not experienced problems with accessing these facilities, to the extent that the financial institutions that participate in these facilities were to default on their obligation to fund, those funds would not be available to us.Global operations, currency rate fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations and geopolitical uncertaintyOur products are produced and sold in numerous countries throughout the world.  As a result of the Beer Business Acquisition, we also have operations in Mexico.Risks associated with international operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, include:•changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions;•potential disruption from socio-economic violence, including terrorism and drug-related violence;•restrictions on foreign ownership and investments or on repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.;•changes in laws, governmental regulations and policies in many countries outside the U.S.;•changes in tax laws and regulations, including with respect to income taxes in countries outside the U.S.;•import and export requirements;•currency exchange rate fluctuations;•a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues;•laws regarding the enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights;11Table of Contents•inadequate levels of compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and•other challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences.Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to overcome the challenges we encounter with respect to these factors and other matters generally affecting U.S. companies with global operations.  Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including anti-corruption laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies or take action determined to be in violation of the law.  Any determination that our operations or activities were not in compliance with applicable U.S. or foreign laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, interruptions of business, terminations of necessary licenses and permits, and other legal and equitable sanctions.We are also exposed to risks associated with currency fluctuations and risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.  Currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in the markets in which we do business have fluctuated in recent years and are likely to continue to do so in the future.  We manage our exposure to foreign currency and interest rate risks utilizing derivative instruments and other means to reduce those risks.  We could experience changes in our ability to hedge against or manage fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in reducing those risks.  We could also be affected by nationalization of our international operations, unstable governments, unfamiliar or biased legal systems or intergovernmental disputes.  These currency, economic and political uncertainties may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, especially to the extent these matters, or the decisions, policies or economic strength of our suppliers and distributors, affect our global operations.CompetitionWe are in a highly competitive industry and the dollar amount and unit volume of our sales could be negatively affected by numerous factors including:•our inability to maintain or increase prices;•new entrants in our market or categories;•a general decline in beverage alcohol consumption; or•the decision of wholesalers or consumers to purchase a competitor’s product instead of ours.Unit volume and dollar amount of sales could also be affected by pricing, purchasing, financing, operational, advertising or promotional decisions made by wholesalers, state and provincial agencies, and retailers which could affect their supply of, or consumer demand for, our products.  We could also experience higher than expected selling, general and administrative expenses if we find it necessary to increase the number of our personnel or our advertising or marketing expenditures to maintain our competitive position or for other reasons.Dependence on sales of our Mexican Beer BrandsSince the Beer Business Acquisition, sales of the Mexican Beer Brands in the U.S. have become a more significant portion of our business.  Accordingly, if the growth rate, amount or profitability of our sales of the Mexican Beer Brands in the U.S. declines, our business could be more adversely affected than as compared to a time prior to the Beer Business Acquisition.  Further, consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from the Mexican Beer Brands, the categories in which they compete, or beer generally due to, among other reasons, changing taste preferences, demographics or perceived value.  Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences and taste away from the Mexican Beer Brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition and results of operations.Supply of Mexican Beer BrandsIn order to fulfill our current and projected Mexican Beer Brands product requirements, we are currently dependent on our Nava Brewery which is a single facility located in Nava, Coahuila, Mexico, and an interim supply agreement for our supply of Mexican Beer Brands through June 2017.  Although we are in the process of 12Table of Contentsconstructing an additional brewery in Mexicali, Baja California, Mexico with the first phase targeted for completion in calendar 2019, our Nava Brewery may for a period of time become our sole source of supply for our Mexican Beer Brands.  The Nava Brewery currently has the capacity to fill approximately 60% of our current product requirements and before the end of calendar 2016 its capacity is expected to increase to allow it to fill approximately 80% of our projected product requirements.  We are in the process of further expanding the Nava Brewery's capacity over a three-year period.  The first phase, which was intended to make us self-sufficient, is targeted to be complete in calendar 2016.  The second phase to support further growth in the business is targeted for completion in calendar 2017, and the third phase, to support additional growth of the business, is targeted for completion in calendar 2018.  In 2013, we entered into an interim supply agreement for a supply of additional Mexican Beer Brands products for an initial period of three years.  This agreement also provides for up to two one-year extensions.  However, the United States, acting though the DOJ, will have a right of approval, in its sole discretion, of any extension of the term of this interim supply agreement beyond three years.  The term of this interim supply agreement has been extended for one additional year as to a select number of products to ensure additional supply beyond the initial Nava expansion to support the robust growth levels of our Mexican Beer portfolio and continue a smooth transition as we ramp up incremental capacity.  The interim supply agreement will now expire in June 2017.  There can be no assurance that any additional requested extension would be granted.Our Nava Brewery supply is also dependent upon an adequate supply of glass bottles.  We formed the Mexican glass plant joint venture which acquired the glass plant adjacent to our Nava Brewery.  The Mexican glass plant joint venture plans to expand production of the glass plant facility by early calendar 2018 in order to increase bottle output to support increased production at our Nava Brewery.We may not be able to satisfy all of our product supply requirements for the Mexican Beer Brands in the event of a significant partial destruction or the total destruction of the Nava Brewery or our interim supplier’s breweries.  Also, if the contemplated initial expansion of our Nava Brewery is not completed within three years after consummation of the Beer Business Acquisition, and the additional incremental expansions of the Nava Brewery and construction of the Mexicali Brewery to support further growth of our business are not completed by their targeted completion dates, we may not be able to produce sufficient Mexican Beer Brands to satisfy our needs.  Under such circumstances, we may be unable to obtain Mexican Beer Brands at a reasonable price from another source, if at all.  A significant disruption at our Nava Brewery or at our supplier’s breweries, even on a short-term basis, could impair our ability to produce and ship products to market on a timely basis.  Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not readily be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, any of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance.  Similarly, although we have additional sources of supply of glass bottles, a significant partial destruction or the total destruction of the joint venture’s Mexican glass plant or the failure of the joint venture to complete the glass plant expansion could impair our ability to bottle and ship our Mexican beer products to market.  Additionally, our general insurance policies may not cover certain types of catastrophes that might affect our supply of the Mexican Beer Brands.  A major uninsured catastrophe could result in significant unrecoverable losses.Supply of quality water, agricultural and other raw materials, certain raw materials and packaging materials purchased under short-term supply contracts, limited group of suppliers of glass bottlesThe quality and quantity of water available for use is important to the supply of our agricultural raw materials and our ability to operate our business.  Water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and if climate patterns change and droughts become more severe, there may be a scarcity of water or poor water quality which may affect our production costs or impose capacity constraints.  We are dependent on sufficient amounts of quality water for operation of our breweries, our wineries and our distillery, as well as to irrigate our vineyards and conduct our other operations.  The suppliers of the agricultural raw materials we purchase are also dependent upon sufficient supplies of quality water for their vineyards and fields.We have substantial wine operations in the state of California, which has endured an extended period of drought and has instituted restrictions on water usage.  While we have undertaken a number of water saving initiatives and we currently believe we have sufficient water available for our California vineyards and wineries, continued or more severe drought conditions in California could have an adverse effect upon those operations, which effect could become more significant depending upon actual future drought conditions.  Our Nava Brewery 13Table of Contentsand the glass plant receive water originating from a mountain aquifer.  Although we anticipate our breweries and the glass plant will receive water adequate to support their on-going requirements, including as a result of the anticipated expansions, there is no guarantee that the water available to them or their water requirements will not change materially in the future.If water available to our operations or the operations of our suppliers becomes scarcer or the quality of that water deteriorates, we may incur increased production costs or face manufacturing constraints which could negatively affect our business and financial performance.  Even if quality water is widely available, including to our breweries, our wineries, our distillery and our vineyards, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain operation of our production facilities and vineyards.  Any of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our breweries, the glass plant, our wineries and our distillery also use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce their products.  As to the Nava Brewery, these include corn starch, malt, hops and water; the glass plant uses large amounts of soda ash and silica sand; the Ballast Point breweries use large amounts of malt, hops, yeast and water, as well as corn sugars, spices and fruits; the wineries use large amounts of grapes and water; and the distillery uses large amounts of grain and water.  Our breweries, our wineries and our distillery all use large amounts of various packaging materials, including glass, aluminum, cardboard and other paper products.  Our production facilities, including the glass plant, also use a significant amount of energy in their operations, including electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel.  Certain raw materials and packaging materials are purchased under contracts of varying maturities.  The supply and price of raw materials, packaging materials and energy can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices), droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft.  To the extent any of the foregoing factors, including supply of goods and energy, affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or we do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks, or are unable to recoup costs through increases in the price of our finished products, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted.Glass bottle costs are one of our largest components of cost of product sold.  We currently have a small number of suppliers of glass bottles for our Mexican Beer Brands.  In the U.S. and Canada, glass bottles have only a small number of producers.  Currently, one producer supplies most of our glass container requirements for our U.S. operations and a portion of our glass container requirements for our Canadian operations, with the remaining portion of our glass container requirements for our Canadian operations supplied by another producer.  The inability of any of our glass bottle suppliers to satisfy our requirements could adversely affect our business.Catastrophic loss to wineries, production facilities or distribution systemsThroughout the years, we have consolidated several of our winery and production facility operations.  Approximately 80% of our total annual wine and spirits product volume is produced in the US, and three of our largest wineries are the Woodbridge Winery in Acampo, CA, the Mission Bell Winery in Madera, CA, and the Canandaigua Winery in Canandaigua, NY.  These three facilities produce approximately 36 million cases (or approximately 70% of our US production) which is approximately 55% of the total annual Constellation wine and spirits product volume globally.  Additionally, many of our vineyards and production and distribution facilities, such as our California wineries, our Lodi Distribution Center in Lodi, CA, and our planned Mexicali Brewery are located in areas which are prone to seismic activity.  If any of these vineyards and facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in potentially significant expenses to repair or replace the vineyard or facility.  If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected.  In addition, since we have consolidated certain of our operations and various production and distribution facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption of our operations in the event of a catastrophic event in any one location, such as through acts of war or terrorism, fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other natural or man-made disasters.  Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, certain catastrophes are not covered by our insurance policies as we believe this to be a prudent financial decision.  Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain insurance.  If our insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may 14Table of Contentsbe at greater risk that we may experience an adverse impact to our financial results.  We take steps to minimize the damage that would be caused by a catastrophic event, but there is no certainty that our efforts would prove successful.  If one or more significant uninsured events occur, we could suffer a major financial loss.Expansion issues, construction issues and operational disruptionsWe are currently expanding our Nava Brewery and constructing our Mexicali Brewery and our joint venture with Owens-Illinois is expanding the glass plant.  While these multi-million dollar expansion and construction activities are progressing consistent with our plans, there is always the potential risk of completion delays and cost overruns.  Our supply of Mexican Beer Brands would be negatively impacted if a serious delay in these expansion or construction activities were to occur, leading to a negative impact upon our results of operation and financial condition.Expansion of current production facilities and construction of new production facilities required to support future growth is subject to various regulatory and developmental risks, including but not limited to: (i) our ability to obtain timely certificate authorizations, necessary approvals and permits from regulatory agencies and on terms that are acceptable to us; (ii) potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of the project; (iii) inability to acquire rights-of-way or land or water rights on a timely basis on terms that are acceptable to us; and (iv) inability to acquire the necessary energy supplies, including electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel.Many of our production facilities, such as our breweries, wineries and distillery, and the Mexican glass plant held by the joint venture with Owens-Illinois are asset intensive.  Our profitability could be affected by operational disruption of any of our production or bottling lines or the glass furnace.  In such event we may experience an adverse effect to our business operations and profitability due to higher maintenance charges, unexpected capital spending or product supply constraints.Acquisition, divestiture and joint venture strategyWe have made a number of acquisitions and divestitures and may, from time to time, acquire additional businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business.  Recently, these have included the Meiomi wine brand, the Ballast Point craft beer business and our agreement to acquire The Prisoner Wine Company brand portfolio.  We may also divest ourselves of businesses, assets or securities of companies that we believe no longer provide a strategic fit with our business.  We will need to integrate acquired businesses with our existing operations; our overall internal control over financial reporting processes; and our financial, operations and information systems.  If the financial performance of our business, as supplemented by the assets and businesses acquired, does not meet our expectations, it may make it more difficult for us to service our debt obligations and our results of operations may fail to meet market expectations.We cannot assure you that we will realize the expected benefits of acquisitions or joint ventures, such as revenue, earnings or operating efficiency, and we may not effectively assimilate the business or product offerings of acquired companies into our business successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframes.  Complications with on-going integration of any acquisition or joint venture, including our Beer Business Acquisition or the acquisition of a Mexican glass plant by our joint venture with Owens-Illinois, could result from the following circumstances, among others:•failure to implement our business plan for the combined business;•unanticipated issues in integrating, migrating or changing manufacturing, logistics, information, communications, financial, internal control and other systems;•failure to retain key customers and suppliers;•unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;•failure to retain key employees;•operating risks inherent in the acquired businesses and assets and our business;•unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities;•failure to realize fully anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and other potential synergies; and•unfamiliarity with operating new locations.15Table of ContentsThe integration of the Beer Business Acquisition can be further impacted by the following circumstances:•Mexican brewery operations will be dependent upon the operational experience of employees who are relatively new to our organization; •our ability to secure or expand Mexican brewery capacity beyond the initial Nava Brewery expansion, both incremental Nava Brewery expansions and construction of the Mexicali Brewery in order to support future growth of our beer business; and•failure to expand the Nava Brewery under the timeline imposed by the DOJ pursuant to the final judgment.Our joint venture with Owens-Illinois to operate a glass plant adjacent to our Nava Brewery is fully consolidated into our financial results and the entire output of that facility will be utilized to support our Mexican beer business and the production at our Nava Brewery.  The integration of the Mexican glass plant acquisition can be further impacted by the following circumstances:•we share control of the joint venture with Owens-Illinois and while Owens-Illinois has deep experience running glass plants, we are not as experienced in that particular business;•glass plant operations will be dependent upon the operational experience of employees who are relatively new to our organization; and•the ability of the joint venture to expand the glass plant capacity as planned in order to support the future growth of our beer business.If any of these circumstances were to occur with respect to any of our acquisitions, including our Beer Business Acquisition or the Mexican glass plant joint venture’s acquisition of the glass plant, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted.We may provide various indemnifications in connection with the sale of assets or portions of our business.  Additionally, our final determinations and appraisals of the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions may vary materially from earlier estimates.  We cannot assure you that the fair value of acquired businesses will remain constant.We have entered into joint ventures such as our Mexican glass plant joint venture with Owens-Illinois and we may enter into additional joint ventures for other purposes and with other parties.  We share control of our joint ventures.  We have also acquired or retained ownership interests in companies which we do not control, such as investments recently made through our Constellation Ventures function, such as our minority interests in Crafthouse Cocktails and Nelson’s Green Brier Tennessee Whiskey.  Our joint venture partners or the other parties that hold the remaining ownership interests in companies which we do not control may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or the goals of the joint ventures or those companies.  Similarly, in 2016, we announced that we are evaluating the merits of executing an initial public offering of a portion of our Canadian wine business.  Our joint venture arrangements and the arrangements through which we acquired or hold our other equity or membership interests may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs, to make capital investments, to fulfill alone our joint venture partners’ obligations, or to purchase other parties’ interests.  Even though we share control of our Mexican glass plant joint venture, the financial results of that joint venture are consolidated into our financial results.  Our failure to adequately manage the risks associated with any acquisition, or the failure of an entity in which we have an equity or membership interest, could adversely affect our financial condition or our valuation of these types of investments.We cannot assure you that any of our acquisitions, investments or joint ventures will be profitable or that forecasts regarding acquisition, divestiture, joint venture or investment activities will be accurate.IndebtednessIn recent years, we have incurred substantial indebtedness to finance acquisitions such as our acquisition of Ballast Point, repurchase shares of our common stock and fund the Beer Business Acquisition.  In the future, we may continue to incur substantial additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions, repurchase shares of our stock and 16Table of Contentsfund other general corporate purposes, including our Nava Brewery expansions, our Mexicali Brewery construction and expansion of the glass plant held through the Mexican glass plant joint venture.  We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to meet all of our debt service requirements, to pay dividends and to fund our general corporate and capital requirements.Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon our future operating performance.  We do not have complete control over our future operating performance because it is subject to prevailing economic conditions, levels of interest rates and financial, business and other factors.Our current and future debt service obligations and covenants could have important consequences.  These consequences include, or may include, the following:•our ability to obtain financing for future working capital needs or acquisitions or other purposes may be limited;•our funds available for operations, expansions, dividends or other distributions may be reduced because we dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness;•our ability to conduct our business could be limited by restrictive covenants; and•our vulnerability to adverse economic conditions may be greater than less leveraged competitors and, thus, our ability to withstand competitive pressures may be limited.Restrictive covenants in our senior credit facility and in our indentures place limits on our ability to conduct our business.  Covenants in our senior credit facility include those that restrict our ability to make acquisitions, incur debt, encumber or sell assets, pay dividends, engage in mergers and consolidations, enter into transactions with affiliates, make investments and permit our subsidiaries to enter into certain restrictive agreements.  It additionally contains certain financial covenants, including a net debt coverage ratio test and an interest coverage ratio test.  Covenants in our indentures are generally less restrictive than those in our senior credit facility but nevertheless, among other things, limit our ability under certain circumstances to create liens or enter into sale-leaseback transactions and impose conditions on our ability to engage in mergers, consolidations and sales of all or substantially all of our assets.These agreements also contain certain change of control provisions which, if triggered, may result in an acceleration of our obligation to repay the debt.  If we fail to comply with the obligations contained in the senior credit facility, our existing or future indentures or other loan agreements, we could be in default under such agreements, which could require us to immediately repay the related debt and also debt under other agreements that may contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions.Potential decline in the consumption of products we sellWe rely on consumers’ demand for our products.  Consumer preferences may shift due to a variety of factors, including changes in demographic or social trends, public health policies, and changes in leisure, dining and beverage consumption patterns.  Our continued success will require us to anticipate and respond effectively to shifts in consumer behavior and drinking tastes.  If consumer preferences were to move away from our premium brands, including our Mexican Beer Brands, in any of our major markets, our financial results might be adversely affected.While over the past several years there have been modest increases in consumption of beverage alcohol in most of our product categories and geographic markets, there have been periods in the past in which there were sequential declines in the overall per capita consumption of certain beverage alcohol product categories in the U.S. and other markets in which we participate.  A limited or general decline in consumption in one or more of our product categories could occur in the future due to a variety of factors, including:•a general decline in economic or geopolitical conditions;•concern about the health consequences of consuming beverage alcohol products and about drinking and driving;17Table of Contents•a general decline in the consumption of beverage alcohol products in on-premise establishments, such as may result from smoking bans and stricter laws relating to driving while under the influence of alcohol;•consumer dietary preferences favoring lighter, lower calorie beverages such as diet soft drinks, sports drinks and water products;•the increased activity of anti-alcohol groups;•increased federal, state, provincial and foreign excise or other taxes on beverage alcohol products and possible restrictions on beverage alcohol advertising and marketing;•increased regulation placing restrictions on the purchase or consumption of beverage alcohol products or increasing prices due to the imposition of duties or excise tax;•inflation; and•wars, pandemics, weather and natural or man-made disasters.In addition, our continued success depends, in part, on our ability to develop new products.  The launch and ongoing success of new products are inherently uncertain especially with regard to their appeal to consumers.  The launch of a new product can give rise to a variety of costs and an unsuccessful launch, among other things, can affect consumer perception of existing brands and our reputation.  Unsuccessful implementation or short-lived popularity of our product innovations may result in inventory write-offs and other costs.Reliance on wholesale distributors, major retailers and government agenciesLocal market structures and distribution channels vary worldwide.  Within our primary market in the U.S., we offer a range of beverage alcohol products across the imported beer, craft beer, branded wine and spirits categories, with separate distribution networks utilized for our imported and craft beer portfolios and our wine and spirits portfolio.  In the U.S., we sell our products principally to wholesalers for resale to retail outlets including grocery stores, club and discount stores, package liquor stores and restaurants and also directly to government agencies, while in Canada, we sell our products principally to government agencies.  In the U.S., we have entered into exclusive arrangements with certain wholesalers that generate a large portion of our U.S. wine and spirits sales.  The replacement or poor performance of our major wholesalers, retailers or government agencies could result in temporary or longer-term sales disruptions or could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition for a particular period.  Our inability to collect accounts receivable from our major wholesalers, retailers or government agencies could also materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Our industry is being affected by the trend toward consolidation in the wholesale and retail distribution channels, particularly in the U.S.  If we are unable to adapt successfully to this changing environment, our net income, market share and volume growth could be negatively affected.  In addition, wholesalers and retailers of our products offer products which compete directly with our products for retail shelf space, promotional support and consumer purchases.  Accordingly, wholesalers or retailers may give higher priority to products of our competitors.Reliance upon complex information systems and third party global networksWe depend on information technology to enable us to operate efficiently and interface with customers and suppliers, as well as maintain financial accuracy and efficiency.  If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach.  We recognize that many groups on a world-wide basis have experienced increases in cyber attacks and other hacking activity.  We have dedicated internal and external resources to review and address such threats.  However, as with all large information technology systems, our systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting confidential or proprietary information, corrupting our information, disrupting our business processes, or engaging in the unauthorized use of strategic information about us or our employees, customers or consumers.  Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business operations and could result in the loss of assets or revenues, litigation, remediation costs, damage to our reputation, or the failure by us to retain or attract customers following such an event.  Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.18Table of ContentsWe have outsourced various functions to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future.  We rely on those third-party service providers to provide services on a timely and effective basis.  Although we believe we have robust service level agreements with such third parties, closely monitor their performance and maintain contingency plans in case they are unable to perform as agreed, we do not ultimately control their performance.  Their failure to perform as expected or as required by contract could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow, and could impair our ability to make required filings with various reporting agencies on a timely or accurate basis.In connection with the Beer Business Acquisition, we currently have the right to receive various services pursuant to our amended transition services agreement with ABI.  These currently include certain limited services which are available for the time periods as set forth in that transition services agreement, which include certain raw material supplies such as glass bottles and specialty malts.The failure of ABI (or any third party that ABI is permitted to outsource to) to perform as expected or as required by our contract or the glass plant joint venture’s contract could result in significant disruptions and costs to our operations, and could also materially affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow, and could impair our ability to make required filings with various reporting agencies on a timely or accurate basis.Various diseases, pests and certain weather conditionsVarious diseases, pests, fungi, viruses, drought, frosts and certain other weather conditions could affect the quality and quantity of barley, hops, grapes and other agricultural raw materials available, decreasing the supply of our products and negatively impacting profitability.  We cannot guarantee that our grape suppliers or our suppliers of other agricultural raw materials will succeed in preventing contamination in existing vineyards or fields or that we will succeed in preventing contamination in our existing vineyards or future vineyards we may acquire.  Future government restrictions regarding the use of certain materials used in growing grapes or other agricultural raw materials may increase vineyard costs and/or reduce production of grapes or other crops.  Growing agricultural raw materials also requires adequate water supplies.  A substantial reduction in water supplies could result in material losses of grape crops and vines or other crops, which could lead to a shortage of our product supply.Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate changeOur business depends upon agricultural activity and natural resources.  There has been much public discussion related to concerns that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters.  Severe weather events, such as drought in California or a prolonged cold winter in New York and Canada, and climate change may negatively affect agricultural productivity in the regions from which we presently source our various agricultural raw materials.  Decreased availability of our raw materials may increase the cost of goods for our products.  Severe weather events or changes in the frequency or intensity of weather events can also disrupt our supply chain, which may affect production operations, insurance cost and coverage, as well as delivery of our products to wholesalers, retailers and consumers.Control by the Sands FamilyOur Class B Common Stock is principally held by members of the Sands family, either directly or through entities controlled by members of the Sands family.  Holders of Class A Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to 10 votes per share.  Holders of Class 1 Common Stock generally do not have voting rights.  The stock ownership of the Sands family and entities controlled by members of the Sands family represents a majority of the combined voting power of all classes of our common stock as of April 19, 2016, voting as a single class.  As a result, the Sands family has the power to elect a majority of our directors and approve actions requiring the approval of the stockholders of the Company voting as a single class.19Table of ContentsImport and excise duties or other taxes or government regulations, including significant additional labeling or warning requirements or limitations in the marketing or sale of our productsThe U.S., Canada and other countries in which we operate impose import and excise duties and other taxes on beverage alcohol products in varying amounts which are subject to change.  Significant increases in import and excise duties or other taxes on beverage alcohol products could materially and adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations.  The U.S. federal budget and individual state, provincial or local municipal budget deficits could result in increased taxes on our products, business, customers or consumers.  Various proposals to increase taxes on beverage alcohol products have been made at the federal and state or provincial level in recent years.  Many U.S. states have considered proposals to increase, and some of these states have increased, state alcohol excise taxes.  There may be further consideration by federal, state, provincial, local and foreign governmental entities to increase taxes upon beverage alcohol products as governmental entities explore available alternatives for raising funds during the current macroeconomic climate.  In addition, federal, state, provincial, local and foreign governmental agencies extensively regulate the beverage alcohol products industry concerning such matters as licensing, warehousing, trade and pricing practices, permitted and required labeling, advertising and relations with wholesalers and retailers.  Certain federal, state or provincial regulations also require warning labels and signage.  New or revised regulations or increased licensing fees, requirements or taxes could also have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.  Additionally, various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements or limitations on the marketing or sale of our products as a result of what they contain or allegations that they cause adverse health effects.  If these types of requirements become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, they may inhibit sales of such products.Damage to our reputationMaintaining a good reputation is critical to selling our branded products.  Product contamination or tampering or the failure to maintain our standards for product quality, safety and integrity, including with respect to raw materials, naturally occurring compounds, packaging materials or product components obtained from suppliers, may reduce demand for our products or cause production and delivery disruptions.  Although we maintain standards for the materials and product components we receive from our suppliers, and we also audit our suppliers’ compliance with our standards, it is possible that a supplier may not provide materials or product components which meet our required standards or may falsify documentation associated with the fulfillment of those requirements.  If any of our products becomes unsafe or unfit for consumption, is misbranded or causes injury, we may have to engage in a product recall and/or be subject to liability and incur additional costs.  A widespread product recall, multiple product recalls, or a significant product liability judgment could cause our products to be unavailable for a period of time, which could further reduce consumer demand and brand equity.  Our reputation could be impacted negatively by public perception, adverse publicity (whether or not valid), negative comments in social media, or our responses relating to:•a perceived failure to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities;•a perceived failure to address concerns relating to the quality, safety or integrity of our products;•our environmental impact, including use of agricultural materials, packaging, water and energy use, and waste management; or•effects that are perceived as insufficient to promote the responsible use of alcohol.Failure to comply with local laws and regulations, to maintain an effective system of internal controls, to provide accurate and timely financial statement information, or to protect our information systems against service interruptions, misappropriation of data or breaches of security, could also hurt our reputation.  Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for any of these or other reasons could result in decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation, competitive position and brand equity.20Table of ContentsContaminationThe success of our brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of those brands.  Contamination, whether arising accidentally or through deliberate third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or consumer support for our brands, could adversely affect their sales.  Contaminants in raw materials, packaging materials or product components purchased from third parties and used in the production of our beer, wine or spirits products or defects in the fermentation or distillation process could lead to low beverage quality as well as illness among, or injury to, consumers of our products and may result in reduced sales of the affected brand or all of our brands.Dependence upon trademarks and proprietary rights, failure to protect our intellectual property rightsOur future success depends significantly on our ability to protect our current and future brands and products and to defend our intellectual property rights.  We have been granted numerous trademark registrations covering our brands and products and have filed, and expect to continue to file, trademark applications seeking to protect newly-developed brands and products.  We cannot be sure that trademark registrations will be issued with respect to any of our trademark applications.  There is also a risk that we could, by omission, fail to timely renew or protect a trademark or that our competitors will challenge, invalidate or circumvent any existing or future trademarks issued to, or licensed by, us.Cost of energy or environmental regulatory complianceWe have experienced increases in energy costs in the past, and energy costs could rise in the future, which would result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs.  We may experience significant future increases in the costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance, including fees, licenses, and the cost of capital improvements to our operating facilities in order to meet environmental regulatory requirements.  Our future operating expenses and margins will be dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to pass along increased energy costs or increased costs associated with environmental regulatory compliance to our customers through increased prices.In addition, we may be party to various environmental remediation obligations arising in the normal course of our business or in connection with historical activities of businesses we acquire.  Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation and the risk of unidentified contaminants in our current and former properties, the potential exists for remediation, liability and indemnification costs to differ materially from the costs that we have estimated.  We cannot assure you that our costs in relation to these matters will not exceed our projections or otherwise have an adverse effect upon our business reputation, financial condition or results of operations.Intangible assets, such as goodwill and trademarksWe continue to have a significant amount of intangible assets such as goodwill and trademarks and may acquire more intangible assets in the future.  Intangible assets are subject to a periodic impairment evaluation under applicable accounting standards.  The write-down of any of these intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our net income.Benefit cost increases and labor relationsOur profitability is affected by employee medical costs and other employee benefits.  In recent years, employee medical costs have increased due to factors such as the increase in health care costs in the U.S.  These factors, plus the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in March 2010, are expected to continue to put pressure on our business and financial performance due to higher employee benefit costs.  Although we actively seek to control increases in employee benefit costs and encourage employees to maintain healthy lifestyles to reduce future potential medical costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases.  Continued employee benefit cost increases could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.21Table of ContentsWe believe our subsidiaries have good working relations with their employees.  However, if their employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, they could experience an operational disruption and/or experience higher on-going labor costs which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Class action or other litigation relating to alcohol abuse, the misuse of alcohol, product liability, or marketing or sales practicesThere has been public attention directed at the beverage alcohol industry, which we believe is due to concern over problems related to harmful use of alcohol, including drinking and driving, underage drinking and health consequences from the misuse of alcohol.  We also could be exposed to lawsuits relating to product liability or marketing or sales practices.  Adverse developments in lawsuits concerning these types of matters or a significant decline in the social acceptability of beverage alcohol products that may result from lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business.Item 1B