ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



The Company’s business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and
uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together
with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks set
forth under the heading entitled “Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995”, and in other documents that the Company files with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. If any
of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the Company’s business, financial
condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Under these
circumstances, the trading prices of the Company’s securities could decline, and you could lose all
or part of your investment in the Company’s securities.



If the current weakness continues in the retail, residential and commercial markets in the
Americas, Europe or Asia, or general economic conditions worsen, it could have a material adverse
effect on the Company’s business.



Approximately 35% of 2009 sales were in the CDIY segment and 24% in the Industrial segment. The
Company experienced a 20% sales unit volume decline in its existing businesses, (i.e. excluding
acquisitions) during 2009, primarily in these two segments, as the recession spread worldwide. The
Company’s businesses have been adversely affected by the decline in the U.S. and international
economies, particularly with respect to residential and commercial markets. It is possible this
softness will be prolonged and to the extent it persists there may be an unfavorable impact on
sales, earnings and cash flows. It is possible the Security segment, which experienced an 8% unit
volume declines in existing businesses in 2009, may become more affected if the economic weakness
permeates other market sectors it serves. Further deterioration of these retail, residential or
commercial construction markets, or in general economic conditions, could reduce demand for Company
products and therefore have a material adverse effect on sales,
earnings and cash flows. In addition, due to current economic conditions, it is possible certain customers’ credit-worthiness
may erode resulting in increased write-offs of customer receivables.



5




Table of Contents






The Company’s growth and repositioning strategies include acquisitions. The Company’s recent
acquisitions may not further its strategies and the Company may not be able to identify suitable
future acquisition candidates.



In 2002, the Company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its business portfolio toward favored
growth markets through acquisitions and divestitures. The strategy has been advanced over the last
several years with the acquisition of a number of companies, including General de Protection
(“GdP”), Xmark Corporation (“Xmark”), Sonitrol Corporation (“Sonitrol”), HSM Electronic Protection
Services, Inc. (“HSM”), Facom S.A. (“Facom”), National Manufacturing Co. (“National”), Besco
Pneumatic Corporation (“Besco”), Blick plc (“Blick”), Frisco Bay Industries Ltd (“Frisco Bay”), ISR
Solutions, Inc. (“ISR”), Security Group, Inc. (“Security Group”) and Best Lock Corporation and its
affiliates (“Best Access”).



Although the Company has extensive experience with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that
recently acquired companies will be successfully integrated or that anticipated synergies will be
realized. If the Company successfully integrates the acquired companies and effectively implements
its repositioning strategy, there can be no assurance that its resulting business segments will
enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability.



In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully identify
suitable future acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary
financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate the new companies as necessary to
continue its growth and repositioning strategies.



The Company’s acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations.



The Company made six small acquisitions in 2009 and a number of more significant acquisitions in
2008 and 2007, including, but not limited to: GdP in October 2008, Sonitrol and Xmark in July 2008,
InnerSpace in July 2007, and HSM in January 2007. The Company may make additional acquisitions in
the future. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including:







     
    •
     
    the diversion of Company management’s attention and other resources,



     

     
    •
     
    the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and



     

     
    •
     
    the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies.





Any intangible assets that the Company acquires may have a negative effect on its earnings and
return on capital employed. In addition, the success of the Company’s future acquisitions will
depend in part on its ability to:







     
    •
     
    combine operations,



     

     
    •
     
    integrate departments, systems and procedures, and



     

     
    •
     
    obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions.





Failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the Company’s
existing businesses and harm its operational results. The Company is still in the process of
integrating the businesses and operations of GdP. The Company cannot ensure that such integrations
will be successfully completed, or that all of the planned synergies will be realized.



On November 2, 2009 the Company announced that it has entered into a definitive merger agreement
with Black & Decker in an all-stock transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, which has been
approved by the Boards of Directors of the Company and Black & Decker, each outstanding share of
Black & Decker will be converted into the right to receive 1.275 shares of the Company’s common
stock. Upon closing it is expected that the Company’s shareholders will own approximately 50.5% of
the equity of the combined company and Black & Decker shareholders will own approximately 49.5%.
The Company expects the transaction, which is subject to, among other things, the approval of the
merger by Black & Decker’s shareholders, the approval of the issuance of the Company’s common stock
and certain amendments to the Company’s certificate of incorporation by the Company’s shareholders,
as well as customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions, to close on March 12, 2010.
Please read the section entitled “Risk Factors” beginning on page 19 of the Joint Proxy
Statement/Prospectus contained in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended,
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 2,
2010, for certain risks associated
with this particular transaction.



6




Table of Contents



The Company may incur significant additional indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities,
in connection with future acquisitions which may restrict the manner in which it conducts business.
The potential issuance of such securities may limit the Company’s ability to implement elements of
its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings.



As more fully described in Item 1, on November 2, 2009 the Company entered into an Agreement and
Plan of Merger with Black & Decker which has been approved by the boards of directors of both
companies. The Merger will entail a material issuance of common stock if consummated.



As more fully described in Item 7 and Note H, Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements, of the
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company completed concurrent
offerings of Floating Rate Equity Units and 5% Senior Notes due 2010, the net proceeds of which
were used to finance a portion of the acquisition of HSM. In addition, the Company has a committed
revolving credit agreement, expiring in February 2013, supporting borrowings up to $800 million.
This agreement includes provisions that allow designated subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million
in Euros and Pounds Sterling, which may be available to, among other things, fund acquisitions.



The instruments and agreements governing certain of the Company’s current indebtedness contain
requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things:







     
    •
     
    a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the Company and its subsidiaries;



     

     
    •
     
    a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; 



     

     
    •
     
    customary events of default. If an event of default occurs and is continuing, the Company
might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or
agreement; and



     

     
    •
     
    maintenance of specified financial ratios. Failure to maintain such ratios could
adversely affect further access to liquidity and require the Company to pay all interest
coupons on certain debt securities through the issuance of common stock before making
further dividend payments on its common shares outstanding.





The Company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to
its $800 million Revolving Credit Facility. The interest coverage ratio tested for covenant
compliance compares adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization to
adjusted Interest Expense (“adjusted EBITDA”/ “adjusted Interest Expense”), as both terms are
defined in the debt agreement. Adjusted EBITDA represents earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, excluding certain restructuring charges and with interest expense
adjusted as follows. Adjusted interest expense excludes imputed (non-cash) interest expense in
respect of convertible bonds issued by the Company as calculated in accordance with the Financial
Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, “Debt with Conversion and
Other Options”. The ratio required for compliance is 3.5 adjusted EBITDA to 1.0 adjusted Interest
Expense and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. Under
this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was 10 times adjusted EBITDA or higher in
each of the 2009 quarterly measurement periods. Management does not believe it is reasonably
likely the Company will breach this covenant.



Future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive
conditions or covenants. Such covenants could restrict the Company in the manner in which it
conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning
strategies.



The Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary
economic conditions that affect the cost of raw materials, freight, energy, labor and sourced
finished goods.



The Company’s products are manufactured of both ferrous and non-ferrous metals, including but not
limited to steel, aluminum, zinc, brass, nickel and copper, as well as resin. Additionally, the
Company uses other commodity based materials for components and packaging including, but not
limited to: plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. The Company’s cost base also reflects
significant elements for freight, energy and labor. The Company also sources certain finished goods
directly from vendors. As described in more detail in Item 7 hereto, the Company has been
negatively impacted by inflation in recent years. If the Company is unable to mitigate any
inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its
profitability may be adversely affected.



7




Table of Contents



Conversely, in the event there is deflation, the Company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there
can be no assurance that the Company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations
with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact
results of operations and cash flows.



Tight capital and credit markets could adversely affect the Company by limiting the Company’s or
its customers’ ability to borrow or otherwise obtain cash.



The Company’s growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to
support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase
sales of existing product lines. While the Company has not encountered financing difficulties to
date, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in late 2008 and
in early 2009. Market conditions could make it more difficult for the Company to borrow or
otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. In
addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s
businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of
customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products and/or customer
insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively
impacting the Company’s treasury operations.



The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could
negatively impact profitability.



Exposure to foreign currency risk results because the Company, through its global operations,
enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. The Company’s
predominant exposures are in European, Canadian, British, and Asian currencies, including the
Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”). In preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with
functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at
current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange
rates. With respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative
to local currencies, the Company’s earnings could be negatively impacted. In 2009, foreign
currency translation negatively impacted earnings by $0.04 per diluted share. The translation
impact has been more material in the past and may be more material in the future. Although the
Company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a
portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such
measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. The Company does not make
a practice of hedging its non-U.S. dollar earnings.



The Company sources many products from China and other Asian low-cost countries for resale in other
regions. To the extent the RMB or other currencies appreciate with respect to the U.S. dollar, the
Company may experience cost increases on such purchases. The Company may not be successful at
implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases
and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted.



The Company’s business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas.



The Company imports large quantities of finished goods, components and raw materials. Substantially
all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by
governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. In
addition, the countries in which the Company’s products and materials are manufactured or imported
may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its
imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing
restrictions. Imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may
increase the Company’s cost of goods sold. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions,
or the Company’s suppliers’ failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm
the Company’s business.



The Company’s operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and
regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and regulations of
the World Trade Organization. Although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on
trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties
and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also
impose requirements that adversely affect the Company’s business, such as setting quotas on
products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the U.S. or the
European Union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on
products from countries where the Company’s competitors source products.



The Company’s ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected
by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers,
such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security
requirements in the U.S. and other countries. These issues could delay importation of products or
require the Company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers.
These alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in
higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial
condition.



8




Table of Contents



Large customer concentrations and related customer inventory adjustments may negatively impact
sales, results of operations and cash flows.



The Company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers,
although no one customer represents more than 10% of consolidated net sales. The loss or material
reduction of business from, or the lack of success of sales initiatives for the Company’s products
related to, any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s
results of operations and cash flows. In addition, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these
customers can have a negative impact on sales.



During 2009 the Company experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting
de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. Such distributor
de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader
economic recession. The Industrial segment generally sells to distributors where the Company does
not have point of sale data to see end user demand trends, however, a substantial portion of the
overall 30% volume declines within the Industrial segment is believed to be attributable to such
de-stocking or customer inventory adjustments. The Company’s results may be adversely impacted in
future periods by such customer inventory adjustments.



Customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.



A substantial portion of the Company’s products  are sold through home centers and mass merchant
distribution channels in the U.S. and Europe. A consolidation of retailers in both North America
and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers
creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. The loss of certain larger home centers as
customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business until either such
customers were replaced or the Company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of
business.



If the Company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade
names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially
adversely affected.



As a result of acquisitions, the Company has $1.818 billion of goodwill, $305 million of
indefinite-lived trade names, and $472 million of definite-lived intangible assets at January 2,
2010. The Company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or
indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired
portion of the intangible asset. The definite-lived intangible assets, including customer
relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for
impairment when appropriate. Impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments
outside of the Company’s control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change,
intensified competition or other matters causing a decline in expected future cash flows.



Income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the Company. Future
tax law changes may materially increase the Company’s prospective income tax expense.



The Company is subject to income taxation in the U.S. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions.
Judgment is required in determining the Company’s worldwide income tax provision and accordingly
there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is
uncertain. The Company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions.
Although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from
any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the
Company’s income tax provisions and accruals. Future settlements of income tax audits may have a
material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the
financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. Additionally, it is possible
that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the
Company’s worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes
effective. Also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future
net earnings, it would require an initial write down of any deferred tax assets in the related
jurisdiction.



The Company’s failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for
claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows.



As described in further detail in Items 1 and 3 and Note S, Contingencies, of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company is exposed to and becomes involved in
various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including,
from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial
transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the Company’s distributors and franchisees,
intellectual property claims, regulatory actions and environmental matters.



9




Table of Contents



There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such
matters. In addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual
costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the Company’s estimates for such contingent
liabilities.



The Company’s brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights
by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the Company’s product
quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively
impact revenues and brand reputation.



The Company’s trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success
and competitive position. Unauthorized use of the Company’s trademark rights may not only erode
sales of the Company’s products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and
reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the Company to its customers,
contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. Similarly, failure by
licensees or vendors to adhere to the Company’s standards of quality and other contractual
requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the Company’s
reputation and business. There can be no assurance that the Company’s on-going effort to protect
its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will
prevent all violations.



Successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the Company’s ability to recruit and retain
qualified employees.



The success of the Company’s efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and
abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its
sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer
coverage. The Company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and
other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. A
shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the Company’s ability to implement its growth
strategy.



The Company faces active competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may
suffer.



The Company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. The Company’s products
compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known
brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. The Company competes with both larger
and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce
different products appropriate for the same uses. These companies are often located in countries
such as China, Taiwan and India where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than
in the U.S., Canada and Western Europe. Also, certain large customers offer house brands that
compete with some of the Company’s product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. To remain
profitable and defend market share, the Company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop
new products and services, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a
timely manner. The Company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with
all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales
and profit margins.



The Stanley Fulfillment System (“SFS”) is a continuous operational improvement process applied to
many aspects of the Company’s business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing
customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. In the event the
Company is not successful in effectively applying the SFS disciplines to its key business
processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could
be adversely affected.



In addition, the Company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other
concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. The Company engages in restructuring
actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to
maintain a competitive cost structure. If the Company does not execute restructuring actions well,
its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted;
similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other
market factors the Company may lose market share and profits.



The performance of the Company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information
technology, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other
facilities.



The Company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and
process transactions. Computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and
order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. Consistent and efficient operation of
the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings
performance of the various businesses in many countries.



10




Table of Contents



Despite efforts to prevent such situations, and insurance policies that partially mitigate these
risks, the Company’s systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes,
power outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. Computer hardware and storage equipment that
is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is
concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the Company operates.
Management believes it has effective disaster recovery plans and that it is unlikely there would be
more than a short-lived disruption to its computer and communication systems due to these physical
concentrations of equipment, or from potential occurrences of damage and interruption. However, it
is reasonably possible that results could be adversely impacted if equipment outages were prolonged
due to an unusually serious event. In addition, the Company is planning system conversions to SAP
to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. The implementations from legacy systems
to SAP will occur in carefully managed stages over a period of several years in the Americas, and
ultimately thereafter in Europe and Asia. Management believes the planned system conversions are
cost-beneficial and will further enhance productivity in its operations. There can be no assurances
that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected
timing. It is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current
expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense
recognition as opposed to capitalization. The risk of disruption to key operations is increased
when complex system changes such as the SAP conversions are undertaken. If systems fail to function
effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the Company may be forced to make
significant expenditures to remedy such issues. Any significant disruption in the Company’s
computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results of operations.



The Company’s operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain
distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities which are concentrated in various
geographic locations. If any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire or
flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large
expenses to repair or replace the facility. The Company maintains business interruption insurance,
but it may not fully protect the Company against all adverse effects that could result from
significant disruptions.



If the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the Company may have to
contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating
and other expenses. Certain U.S. employee and director benefit plan expense is affected by the
market value of the Company’s common stock.



As described in further detail in Note L, Employee Benefit Plans, of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined
benefit plans, as well as an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) under which the primary
U.S. defined contribution and 401(k) plans are funded. The Company’s defined benefit plan assets
are currently invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income securities, and money
market instruments. The Company’s funding policy is to contribute amounts determined annually on an
actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which
require, among other things, that the Company make cash contributions to under-funded pension
plans. The Company expects to contribute approximately $17 million to its pension and other
post-retirement defined benefit plans in 2010.



There can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment
returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. It is therefore possible that the
Company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would
reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the Company will have to recognize
a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the Company and
result in higher expense in future years. During 2009 there was a $48 million gain on pension plan
assets. The fair value of these assets at January 2, 2010 was $320 million.



Overall ESOP expense is affected by the market value of Stanley stock on the monthly dates when
shares are released, among other factors. Net ESOP activity amounted to income of $8 million in
2009, and expense of $11 million and $2 million in both 2008 and 2007, respectively. The ESOP
income in 2009 stems from the suspension of certain employee benefits as part of cost saving
actions. The Company has reinstated these benefits in 2010 and expects there will be an increase in
expense in 2010 more aligned with 2008 and prior years. The increase in expense from 2007 to 2008
was mostly attributable to the average market value of shares released which decreased from $56.04
in 2007 to $43.65 in 2008 as well as increased benefits pertaining to headcount expansions related
to acquisitions. ESOP expense could increase in the future if the market value of the Company’s
common stock declines.





11




Table of Contents


The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable.


The Company’s outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit
insurance. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its
trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit
its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the Company’s financial
condition and operating results.





ITEM 1B