ITEM 1A. RISK
FACTORS

The Company’s business, operations and
financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You
should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below,
together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, including those risks set forth under the 

4






heading entitled ‘‘Cautionary
Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995’’, and in other documents that the Company files
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, before making any
investment decision with respect to its securities. If any of the risks
or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the Company’s
business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth
prospects could change. Under these circumstances, the trading prices
of the Company’s securities could decline, and you could lose
all or part of your investment in the Company’s
securities.


Large customer concentration and related
inventory corrections may negatively impact sales, results of
operations and cash flows.

The Company has certain
significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers
such as The Home Depot, Lowe’s and Wal-Mart. The Home Depot
individually accounted for 12% of the Company’s
consolidated net sales from continuing operations in the year ended
December  31,  2005. The loss or material reduction of
business from, or the lack of success of sales initiatives for the
Company’s products by, any such significant customer could have
a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations
and cash flows.
In addition, unanticipated inventory
corrections by such customers can have a negative impact on sales. For
example, severe inventory corrections taken by certain large North
American home center customers in December  2005 negatively
impacted sales by approximately $30  million against normal
levels. Such corrections have also impacted sales in the first quarter
of 2006.

Customer consolidation could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s business.

A
substantial portion of the Company’s products in the Consumer
Products and Industrial Tools segments are sold through home centers
and mass merchant distribution channels. A consolidation of retailers
in both North America and abroad has occurred over time and the
increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of
exposure to potential volume loss. The loss of certain larger home
centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business until either such customers were replaced or
the Company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss
of business.

The Company's growth and repositioning
strategies include acquisitions. The Company’s recent
acquisitions may not further its strategies and the Company may not be
able to identify suitable future acquisition
candidates.

In 2002, the Company embarked on a
growth strategy to shift its business portfolio toward favored growth
markets through acquisitions and divestitures, and thereby to reduce
the risk associated with large customer concentrations. The strategy
has been advanced over the last three years with the sales of the
Company's residential entry door and home décor
businesses, and the acquisition of a number of companies, including
Facom S.A. (‘‘Facom’’), National
Manufacturing Co. (‘‘National’’), Best Lock
Corporation and its affiliates (‘‘Best
Access’’), Chicago Steel Tape Co. and affiliates
(‘‘CST/Berger’’), Blick plc
(‘‘Blick’’), Frisco Bay Industries Ltd
(‘‘Frisco Bay’’), ISR Solutions, Inc.
(‘‘ISR’’), Security Group, Inc.
(‘‘Security Group’’) and Precision
Hardware, Inc. (‘‘Precision’’).
Although the Company has extensive experience with
acquisitions, there can be no assurance that recently acquired
companies will be successfully integrated and effectively implement the
Company’s growth and repositioning strategy. If the Company
successfully integrates the transactions and effectively implements its
repositioning strategy, there can be no assurance that its resulting
business segments will enjoy continued market acceptance or
profitability.
In addition, there can be no assurance
that the Company will be able to successfully identify suitable future
acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the
necessary financing, complete the transactions or successfully
integrate the new company as necessary to continue growth and
repositioning strategies.

The
Company’s acquisitions may result in certain risks for its
business and operations.

The Company has made a
number of acquisitions in the past three years, including, but not
limited to, Facom in January  2006, National in November
2005, Precision in May  2005, Security 
5





Group in January  2005, ISR in
December  2004, Frisco Bay in March  2004, CST/Berger and
Blick in January  2004 and Best Access in November  2002.
The Company may make additional acquisitions in the future.
Acquisitions involve a number of risks,
including:








• 
the diversion of the
Company's management's attention and other resources,










• 
the incurrence of unexpected liabilities,
and










• 
the loss of key personnel and
clients or customers of acquired companies.


Any
intangible assets that the Company acquires may have a negative effect
on its financial statements. In addition, the success of the
Company's future acquisitions will depend in part on its ability
to:








• 
combine operations,










• 
integrate departments, systems and
procedures, and










• 
obtain cost savings and
other efficiencies from the acquisitions.


Failure to
effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely
affect the Company's existing businesses and harm its operational
results. The Company is still in the process of integrating the
businesses and operations of Best Access, Blick, CST/Berger, ISR,
Security Group, Precision, Facom, National and other acquisitions with
its existing businesses and operations, and the Company cannot ensure
that such integration will be successfully completed.

The
Company may incur significant additional indebtedness, enter into other
financing arrangements or issue additional equity securities in
connection with future acquisitions which may restrict the manner in
which it conducts business, limit the Company’s ability to
implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive
effect on earnings.

As more fully described in Item
7 and Note I Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company issued
$450  million of Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities through its
Trust subsidiary, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a
portion of the acquisitions of Facom and National. In addition, the
Company recently amended its five year revolving credit agreement,
increasing the size from $400  million to $550  million,
and including provisions that allow designated subsidiaries to borrow
up to $250  million in Euros and Pound Sterling, which may be
available to, among other things, fund acquisitions.
The
instruments and agreements governing certain of the Company’s
current indebtedness contain, and instruments and agreements governing
indebtedness incurred in the future may contain, restrictive covenants
that include, among other things:








• 
a
limitation on creating liens on certain property of the Company and its
subsidiaries;










• 
maintenance of specified
financial ratios;










• 
a restriction on
entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; and










• 
customary events of default. If an event of
default occurs and is continuing, the Company might be required to
repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or
agreement.


Such covenants could restrict the Company in
the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in
the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies.

The
Company’s brands are an important asset of its business and
violation of its trademark rights by imitators could negatively impact
sales and brand reputation.

The
Company’s trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value
and are important to its success and competitive position. Unauthorized
imitation of its products or unauthorized use of its trademark rights
may not only erode sales of the Company’s products, but may also
cause significant 
6





damage to its brand name and reputation, its
ability to effectively represent the Company to its customers,
contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, as well as divert management
time and attention. There can be no assurance that the Company’s
on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights will prevent
all violations. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of
some foreign countries may not allow the Company to protect its
proprietary rights to the same extent as it is able to in the United
States.

The Company has trademark licensing programs and
licensees may not comply with product quality, manufacturing standards,
marketing and other requirements.

The Company
licenses its trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing,
distribution and sale of various products. While it enters into
comprehensive licensing agreements with its licensees covering product
design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other
requirements, such licensees may not comply fully with those
agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under the
Company’s brand names that do not meet its quality and other
requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet
the Company’s supplier code of conduct. These activities could
harm brand equity, reputation and business.

Successful
sales and marketing efforts depend on the Company’s ability to
recruit and retain qualified employees.

The success
of the Company’s efforts to grow its business depends on the
contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and
other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to
any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate
customer coverage. The Company must therefore continue to recruit,
retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficient to
maintain its current business and support its projected growth. A
shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the Company’s
ability to implement its growth strategy.

The Company faces
active competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business
may suffer.

The Company faces active competition
and resulting pricing pressures. The Company’s products compete
on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product
quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service
capabilities. The Company competes with both larger and smaller
companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that
produce different products appropriate for the same uses. These
companies are often located in countries such as China, Taiwan and
India where labor costs are substantially lower than in the United
States, Canada and Western Europe. To remain profitable and defend
market share, the Company must maintain a competitive cost structure,
develop new products and services, respond to competitor innovations
and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. In addition, the
Company may have to adjust prices on many of its products and services
to stay competitive and retain market share. The Company may not be
able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its
competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse
effect on its sales and profit margins.

The Company’s
results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflation in the
cost of raw materials, freight and energy.

The
Company's products are manufactured of both ferrous and
non-ferrous metals, including but not limited to steel, aluminum, zinc,
and copper. Additionally, the Company uses other commodity based
materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to;
plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. As described in more
detail in Item 7 hereto, the Company has been negatively impacted by
commodity and freight inflation in recent years and it expects energy
and certain commodity prices, particularly non-ferrous metals, may
increase. If the Company is unable to mitigate these inflation
increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction
initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected.

The Company’s failure to continue successfully managing,
defending and accruing for claims and litigation could negatively
impact its results of operations or cash flows.

As
described in further detail in Items 1 and 3 and Note S Contingencies
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the
Company becomes involved in various litigation 
7





matters arising out of the ordinary routine
conduct of its business, including, from time to time, litigation
relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability,
workers compensation, intellectual property claims, regulatory actions
and environmental matters. There can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to continue to successfully manage and defend such
matters. In addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating
certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may
vary from the Company’s estimates for such contingent
liabilities.

The Company is exposed to market risk from
changes in foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation which could
negatively impact profitability.

Exposure to
foreign currency risk results because the Company, through its global
operations, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated
in multiple currencies. The Company’s predominant exposures are
in European, Canadian and Asian currencies, including the Chinese
Renminbi (‘‘RMB’’). In preparing its
financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies
other than the U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated
at current exchange rates and income and expenses are translated using
weighted average exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens
relative to local currencies, the Company’s earnings could be
negatively impacted. Although the Company utilizes risk management
tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate market
fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such
measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation
exposure will be eliminated.
In addition, on July
21,  2005, China announced it will let the RMB fluctuate within a
very tight band (+/- .3% around weighted average prior day
close) thereby effectively adopting a managed float and ending its
decade-old valuation de facto peg to the U.S. dollar. The
Company sources significant products from China and other Asian low
cost countries for resale in other regions. To the extent the
RMB or these other currencies appreciate with respect to the U.S.
dollar, the Company may experience cost increases on such purchases.
While the present 3% appreciation of the RMB should not generate
material cost increases for RMB denominated purchases, further
appreciation of this or other currencies utilized for procurement could
adversely affect profitability. The Company may not be successful at
implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate
the related cost increases.

The Company’s business is
subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing
overseas.

The Company imports large quantities
of finished goods, components and raw materials. Substantially all of
its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to
tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements or
bilateral actions. In addition, the countries in which the
Company’s products and materials are manufactured or imported
from may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or
other restrictions on its imports or adversely modify existing
restrictions. Imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign
currency variation which may increase the Company's cost of goods
sold. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the
Company’s suppliers’ failure to comply with customs
regulations or similar laws, could harm the Company’s
business.
The Company’s operations are also
subject to the effects of international trade agreements and
regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the
activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization. Although
these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade
liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or
eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured
in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements
that adversely affect the Company’s business, such as setting
quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into
key markets such as the U.S. or the European Union.
The
Company’s ability to import products in a timely and
cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or
issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers,
such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or
increased homeland security requirements in the U.S. and other
countries. These issues could delay importation of products or require
the Company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to
avoid 
8





disruption to customers. These alternatives
may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit
costs, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s
business and financial condition.

If the Company were
required to write down all or part of its goodwill or indefinite-lived
tradenames, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely
affected. 

As a result of the Company’s
acquisitions, it has $741  million of goodwill and $107 million
of indefinite-lived tradenames recorded on its Consolidated Balance
Sheet at December  31,  2005. The Company is required to
periodically determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived tradenames
have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired
portion of the intangible asset. If the Company were required to write
down all or part of its goodwill or indefinite-lived tradenames, its
net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected.

If the Company’s investments in its pension plans do not
perform as expected, the Company may have to contribute additional
amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover
operating and other expenses.

As described in
further detail in Note M Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company sponsors
pension and other post retirement benefit plans. The Company’s
plan assets are invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed
income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts.
The Company’s funding policy is to contribute amounts determined
annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future
benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other
things, that the Company make cash contributions to an under funded
pension plan. The Company expects to contribute approximately
$15  million to its pension and other post retirement plans in
2006.
There can be no assurance that the value of the
plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be
sufficient in the future. It is therefore possible that the Company may
be required to make significant additional cash contributions to the
plans which would reduce the cash available for other business
purposes, or that the Company will have to recognize a significant
pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the
Company.
ITEM 1B