ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    The Company’s business, operations and financial
    condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You
    should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described
    below, together with all of the other information in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K,
    including those risks set forth under the heading entitled
    “Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995”, and in other documents that
    the Company files with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission, before making any investment decision with respect
    to its securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually
    occur or develop, the Company’s business, financial
    condition, results of operations and future growth prospects
    could change. Under these circumstances, the trading prices of
    the Company’s securities could decline, and you could lose
    all or part of your investment in the Company’s
    securities.


 



    If the
    current weakness continues in the housing and construction
    markets in the Americas, Europe or Asia, or general recessionary
    conditions worsen, it could have a material adverse effect on
    the Company’s business.


 


    Approximately 37% of 2008 sales were in the Construction and
    Do-It-Yourself segment, and 29% in the Industrial segment. The
    Company experienced 10% sales unit volume declines in existing
    businesses, i.e. excluding acquisitions, in the fourth quarter
    of 2008, and 7% in the third quarter, primarily in these
    segments, as the recession spread worldwide. The Company’s
    business has been adversely affected by the decline in the
    U.S. and international economies, particularly with respect
    to housing and general construction markets. It is



    
    4



Table of Contents




    possible this softness will be prolonged and to the extent it
    persists there is likely to be an unfavorable impact on sales,
    earnings and cash flows. It is possible the Security segment,
    which thus far has not experienced significant recession-related
    volume declines, may become more affected if the recessionary
    impacts permeate other market sectors, particularly construction
    within the retail sector. Further deterioration of these housing
    and construction markets, and general economic conditions, could
    reduce demand for Company products and therefore have a material
    adverse effect on sales, earnings and cash flows. In addition,
    due to current economic conditions, it is possible certain
    customers’ credit-worthiness may erode resulting in
    increased write-offs of customer receivables.


 



    The
    Company’s growth and repositioning strategies include
    acquisitions. The Company’s recent acquisitions may not
    further its strategies and the Company may not be able to
    identify suitable future acquisition candidates.


 


    In 2002, the Company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its
    business portfolio toward favored growth markets through
    acquisitions and divestitures, and thereby reduce the risk
    associated with large customer concentrations. The strategy has
    been advanced over the last several years with the sales of the
    Company’s CST/berger laser measuring, residential entry
    door and home décor businesses, and the acquisition of a
    number of companies, including General de Protection
    (“GdP”), Xmark Corporation (“Xmark”),
    Sonitrol Corporation (“Sonitrol”), HSM Electronic
    Protection Services, Inc. (“HSM”), Facom S.A.
    (“Facom”), National Manufacturing Co.
    (“National”), Besco Pneumatic Corporation
    (“Besco”), Blick plc (“Blick”), Frisco Bay
    Industries Ltd (“Frisco Bay”), ISR Solutions, Inc.
    (“ISR”), Security Group, Inc. (“Security
    Group”) and Best Lock Corporation and its affiliates
    (“Best Access”).


 


    Although the Company has extensive experience with acquisitions,
    there can be no assurance that recently acquired companies will
    be successfully integrated or that anticipated synergies will be
    realized. If the Company successfully integrates the acquired
    companies and effectively implements its repositioning strategy,
    there can be no assurance that its resulting business segments
    will enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability.


 


    In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be
    able to successfully identify suitable future acquisition
    candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary
    financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate
    the new companies as necessary to continue its growth and
    repositioning strategies.


 



    The
    Company’s acquisitions may result in certain risks for its
    business and operations.


 


    The Company has made a number of acquisitions in the past three
    years, including, but not limited to: GdP in October 2008,
    Sonitrol and Xmark in July 2008, InnerSpace in July 2007, HSM in
    January 2007, Besco in July 2006, and Facom in January 2006. The
    Company may make additional acquisitions in the future.
    Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    the diversion of Company management’s attention and other
    resources,




 



     
        •    

    
    the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and




 



     
        •    

    
    the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired
    companies.





 


    Any intangible assets that the Company acquires may have a
    negative effect on its earnings and return on capital employed.
    In addition, the success of the Company’s future
    acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    combine operations,




 



     
        •    

    
    integrate departments, systems and procedures, and




 



     
        •    

    
    obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions.





 


    Failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions
    may adversely affect the Company’s existing businesses and
    harm its operational results. The Company is still in the
    process of integrating the businesses and operations of GdP,
    Xmark, Sonitrol, InnerSpace and other acquisitions with its
    existing businesses and



    
    5



Table of Contents




    operations. The Company cannot ensure that such integrations
    will be successfully completed, or that all of the planned
    synergies will be realized.


 



    The
    Company may incur significant additional indebtedness, or issue
    additional equity securities, in connection with future
    acquisitions which may restrict the manner in which it conducts
    business. The potential issuance of such securities may limit
    the Company’s ability to implement elements of its growth
    strategy and may have a dilutive effect on
    earnings.


 


    As more fully described in Item 7 and Note I,
    Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements, of the Notes to the
    Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company
    issued $450 million of Enhanced Trust Preferred
    Securities through its Trust subsidiary in 2005, the net
    proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the
    acquisitions of Facom and National. In March 2007, the Company
    completed concurrent offerings of Floating Rate Equity Units and
    5% Senior Notes due 2010, the net proceeds of which were
    used to finance a portion of the acquisition of HSM. In
    addition, the Company has a revolving credit agreement, expiring
    in February 2013, enabling borrowings up to $800 million.
    This agreement includes provisions that allow designated
    subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million in Euros and
    Pounds Sterling, which may be available to, among other things,
    fund acquisitions.


 


    The instruments and agreements governing certain of the
    Company’s current indebtedness contain requirements or
    restrictive covenants that include, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the
    Company and its subsidiaries;




 



     
        •    

    
    maintenance of specified financial ratios. Failure to maintain
    such ratios could adversely affect further access to liquidity
    and require the Company to pay all interest coupons on certain
    debt securities through the issuance of common stock before
    making further dividend payments on its common shares
    outstanding;




 



     
        •    

    
    a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback
    transactions; and




 



     
        •    

    
    customary events of default. If an event of default occurs and
    is continuing, the Company might be required to repay all
    amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement.





 


    Future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may
    impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. Such covenants
    could restrict the Company in the manner in which it conducts
    business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth
    and repositioning strategies.


 



    The
    Company’s results of operations could be negatively
    impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions
    that affect the cost of raw materials, freight, energy, labor
    and sourced finished goods.


 


    The Company’s products are manufactured of both ferrous and
    non-ferrous metals, including but not limited to steel,
    aluminum, zinc, brass, nickel and copper, as well as resin.
    Additionally, the Company uses other commodity based materials
    for components and packaging including, but not limited to:
    plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. The
    Company’s cost base also reflects significant elements for
    freight, energy and labor. The Company also sources certain
    finished goods directly from vendors. As described in more
    detail in Item 7 hereto, the Company has been negatively
    impacted by inflation in recent years. If the Company is unable
    to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer
    pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its
    profitability may be adversely affected. Conversely, in the
    event there is deflation, the Company may experience pressure
    from its customers to reduce prices; there can be no assurance
    that the Company would be able to reduce its cost base (through
    negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any
    such price concessions which could adversely impact results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    Tightening
    of capital and credit markets could adversely affect the Company
    by limiting the Company’s or its customers’ ability to
    borrow or otherwise obtain cash.


 


    The Company’s growth plans are dependent on, among other
    things, the availability of funding to support corporate
    initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the
    ability to increase sales of existing product



    
    6



Table of Contents




    lines. While the Company has not encountered financing
    difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets have been
    experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in late 2008 and
    early 2009 which could make it more difficult for the Company to
    borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new
    corporate initiatives and acquisitions. In addition, there could
    be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the
    Company’s business, including insolvency of key suppliers
    resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain
    credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products
    and/or
    customer insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties
    and other financial institutions negatively impacting the
    Company’s treasury operations.


 

 



    The
    Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates which could negatively impact
    profitability.


 


    Exposure to foreign currency risk results because the Company,
    through its global operations, enters into transactions and
    makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. The
    Company’s predominant exposures are in European, Canadian,
    British, and Asian currencies, including the Chinese Renminbi
    (“RMB”). In preparing its financial statements, for
    foreign operations with functional currencies other than the
    U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at
    current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated
    using weighted-average exchange rates. With respect to the
    effects on translated earnings, if the U.S. dollar
    strengthens relative to local currencies, the Company’s
    earnings could be negatively impacted. This occurred in the
    latter half of 2008 and is expected to persist in 2009. Although
    the Company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging,
    as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential
    market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no
    assurance that such measures will result in all market
    fluctuation exposure being eliminated. The Company does not make
    a practice of hedging its
    non-U.S. dollar
    earnings.


 


    The Company sources many products from China and other Asian
    low-cost countries for resale in other regions. To the extent
    the RMB or other currencies appreciate with respect to the
    U.S. dollar, the Company may experience cost increases on
    such purchases. While the 7% appreciation of the RMB which
    occurred in both 2007 and 2008 has not generated material cost
    increases for products sourced from China, further significant
    appreciation of the RMB or other currencies in countries where
    the Company sources product could adversely impact
    profitability. The Company may not be successful at implementing
    customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the
    related cost increases and thus its profitability may be
    adversely impacted.


 



    The
    Company’s business is subject to risks associated with
    sourcing and manufacturing overseas.


 


    The Company imports large quantities of finished goods,
    components and raw materials. Substantially all of its import
    operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs
    and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements,
    bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. In
    addition, the countries in which the Company’s products and
    materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time
    impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions
    on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing
    operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. Imports
    are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation
    which may increase the Company’s cost of goods sold.
    Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the
    Company’s suppliers’ failure to comply with customs
    regulations or similar laws, could harm the Company’s
    business.


 


    The Company’s operations are also subject to the effects of
    international trade agreements and regulations such as the North
    American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and
    regulations of the World Trade Organization. Although these
    trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade
    liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by
    reducing or eliminating the duties
    and/or
    quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular
    country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that
    adversely affect the Company’s business, such as setting
    quotas on products that may be imported from a particular
    country into key markets such as the U.S. or the European
    Union, or make it easier for other companies to compete, by
    eliminating restrictions on products from countries, where the
    Company’s competitors source products.


 


    The Company’s ability to import products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at
    ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and
    warehousing providers, such as port and



    
    7



Table of Contents




    shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased
    homeland security requirements in the U.S. and other
    countries. These issues could delay importation of products or
    require the Company to locate alternative ports or warehousing
    providers to avoid disruption to customers. These alternatives
    may not be available on short notice or could result in higher
    transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the
    Company’s business and financial condition.


 



    Large
    customer concentrations and related customer inventory
    adjustments may negatively impact sales, results of operations
    and cash flows.


 


    The Company has certain significant customers, particularly home
    centers and major retailers, although no one customer represents
    more than 10% of consolidated net sales. The loss or material
    reduction of business from, or the lack of success of sales
    initiatives for the Company’s products related to, any such
    significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the
    Company’s results of operations and cash flows.


 


    In addition, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these
    customers can have a negative impact on sales. For example,
    severe inventory adjustments (pertaining to reducing the number
    of weeks supply on hand) taken by certain large North American
    home center customers in December 2005 negatively impacted sales
    by approximately $30 million versus normal levels.
    Significant impacts from customer inventory adjustments may
    re-occur in the future.


 



    Customer
    consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business.


 


    A substantial portion of the Company’s products in the CDIY
    and Industrial segments are sold through home centers and mass
    merchant distribution channels. A consolidation of retailers in
    both North America and abroad has occurred over time and the
    increasing size and importance of individual customers creates
    risk of exposure to potential volume loss. The loss of certain
    larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s business until either such
    customers were replaced or the Company made the necessary
    adjustments to compensate for the loss of business.


 



    If the
    Company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill,
    indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible
    assets, its net income and net worth could be materially
    adversely affected.


 


    As a result of acquisitions, the Company has $1.747 billion
    of goodwill, $300 million of indefinite-lived trade names,
    and $557 million of definite-lived intangible assets
    recorded on its Consolidated Balance Sheet at January 3,
    2009. The Company is required to periodically, at least
    annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade
    names have become impaired, in which case it would write down
    the impaired portion of the intangible asset. The definite-lived
    intangible assets, including customer relationships, are
    amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are
    also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. Impairment of
    intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of
    the Company’s control, such as worsening economic
    conditions, technological change, intensified competition or
    other matters causing a decline in expected future cash flows.


 



    Income
    tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently
    recorded by the Company. Future tax law changes may materially
    increase the Company’s prospective income tax
    expense.


 


    The Company is subject to income taxation in the U.S. as
    well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. Judgment is required in
    determining the Company’s worldwide income tax provision
    and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for
    which the final income tax determination is uncertain. The
    Company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many
    tax jurisdictions. Although management believes the recorded tax
    estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit
    (or related litigation) could be materially different from
    amounts reflected in the Company’s income tax provisions
    and accruals. Future settlements of income tax audits may have a
    material effect on earnings between the period of initial
    recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the
    point of ultimate tax audit settlement. Additionally, it is
    possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that
    could have a material impact on the Company’s worldwide
    income tax provision beginning with the period that such
    legislation becomes



    
    8



Table of Contents




    effective. Also, while a reduction in statutory rates would
    result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would
    require an initial write down of any deferred tax assets in the
    related jurisdiction.


 



    The
    Company’s failure to continue to successfully avoid,
    manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation
    could negatively impact its results of operations or cash
    flows.


 


    As described in further detail in Items 1 and 3 and
    Note T, Contingencies, of the Notes to the Consolidated
    Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company is exposed to
    and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out
    of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from
    time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such
    items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers
    compensation, the Company’s distributors and franchisees,
    intellectual property claims, regulatory actions and
    environmental matters. There can be no assurance that the
    Company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage
    and defend such matters. In addition, given the inherent
    uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to
    be incurred in future periods may vary from the Company’s
    estimates for such contingent liabilities.


 



    The
    Company’s brands are important assets of its businesses and
    violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure
    of its licensees or vendors to comply with the Company’s
    product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing
    standards, and other requirements could negatively impact
    revenues and brand reputation.


 


    The Company’s trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and
    value and are important to its success and competitive position.
    Unauthorized use of the Company’s trademark rights may not
    only erode sales of the Company’s products, but may also
    cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation,
    interfere with its ability to effectively represent the Company
    to its customers, contractors, suppliers,
    and/or
    licensees, and increase litigation costs. Similarly, failure by
    licensees or vendors to adhere to the Company’s standards
    of quality and other contractual requirements could result in
    loss of revenue, increased litigation,
    and/or
    damage to the Company’s reputation and business. There can
    be no assurance that the Company’s on-going effort to
    protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance
    with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all
    violations.


 



    Successful
    sales and marketing efforts depend on the Company’s ability
    to recruit and retain qualified employees.


 


    The success of the Company’s efforts to grow its business
    depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives,
    its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of
    its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales
    organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. The Company
    must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate
    management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain
    its current business and support its projected growth. A
    shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the
    Company’s ability to implement its growth strategy.


 



    The
    Company faces active competition and if it does not compete
    effectively, its business may suffer.


 


    The Company faces active competition and resulting pricing
    pressures. The Company’s products compete on the basis of,
    among other things, its reputation for product quality, its
    well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service
    capabilities. The Company competes with both larger and smaller
    companies that offer the same or similar products and services
    or that produce different products appropriate for the same
    uses. These companies are often located in countries such as
    China, Taiwan and India where labor and other production costs
    are substantially lower than in the U.S., Canada and Western
    Europe. Also, certain large customers offer house brands that
    compete with some of the Company’s product offerings as a
    lower-cost alternative. To remain profitable and defend market
    share, the Company must maintain a competitive cost structure,
    develop new products and services, respond to competitor
    innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely
    manner. The Company may not be able to compete effectively on
    all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the
    failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its
    sales and profit margins.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    The Stanley Fulfillment System (“SFS”) is a continuous
    operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the
    Company’s business such as procurement, quality in
    manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating
    acquisitions and other key business processes. In the event the
    Company is not successful in effectively applying the SFS
    disciplines to its key business processes its ability to compete
    and future earnings could be adversely affected.


 


    In addition, the Company may have to reduce prices on its
    products and services, or make other concessions, to stay
    competitive and retain market share. The Company engages in
    restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production
    to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a
    competitive cost structure. If the Company does not execute
    restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand
    may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted;
    similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are
    delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the
    Company may lose market share and profits.


 



    The
    performance of the Company may suffer from business disruptions
    associated with information technology, system implementations,
    or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other
    facilities.


 


    The Company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and
    operate its businesses, and record and process transactions.
    Computer systems are important to production planning, customer
    service and order fulfillment among other business-critical
    processes. Consistent and efficient operation of the computer
    hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful
    sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many
    countries.


 


    Despite efforts to prevent such situations, the Company’s
    systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among
    other causes, power outages, computer viruses, or security
    breaches. Computer hardware and storage equipment that is
    integral to efficient operations, such as
    e-mail,
    telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain
    physical locations in the various continents in which the
    Company operates. Management believes it has effective disaster
    recovery plans and that it is unlikely there would be more than
    a short-lived disruption to its computer and communication
    systems due to these physical concentrations of equipment, or
    from potential occurrences of damage and interruption. However,
    it is reasonably possible that results could be adversely
    impacted if equipment outages were prolonged due to an unusually
    serious event. In addition, the Company is planning system
    conversions to SAP to provide a common platform across most of
    its businesses. The implementations from legacy systems to SAP
    will occur in carefully managed stages over a period of several
    years in the Americas, and ultimately thereafter in Europe and
    Asia. Management believes the planned system conversions are
    cost-beneficial and will further enhance productivity in its
    operations. There can be no assurances that expected expense
    synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to
    the expected timing. It is possible the costs to complete the
    system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that
    significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate
    expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. The risk of
    disruption to key operations is increased when complex system
    changes such as the SAP conversions are undertaken. If systems
    fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational
    delays may ensue and the Company may be forced to make
    significant expenditures to remedy such issues. Any significant
    disruption in the Company’s computer operations could have
    a material adverse impact on its business and results of
    operations.


 


    The Company’s operations are significantly dependent on
    infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and
    security alarm monitoring facilities which are concentrated in
    various geographic locations. If any of these were to experience
    a catastrophic loss, such as a fire or flood, it could disrupt
    operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result
    in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. The Company
    maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully
    protect the company against all adverse effects that could
    result from significant disruptions.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    If the
    investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as
    expected, the Company may have to contribute additional amounts
    to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover
    operating and other expenses. Certain U.S. employee benefit plan
    expense is affected by the market value of the Company’s
    common stock.


 


    As described in further detail in Note M, Employee Benefit
    Plans, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in
    Item 8, the Company sponsors pension and other
    post-retirement defined benefit plans, as well as an Employee
    Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) under which the primary
    U.S. defined contribution and 401(k) plans are funded. The
    Company’s defined benefit plan assets are currently
    invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income
    securities, and money market instruments. The Company’s
    funding policy is to contribute amounts determined annually on
    an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in
    accordance with applicable law which require, among other
    things, that the Company make cash contributions to under-funded
    pension plans. The Company expects to contribute approximately
    $20 million to its pension and other post-retirement
    defined benefit plans in 2009.


 


    There can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit
    plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets,
    will be sufficient in the future. It is therefore possible that
    the Company may be required to make higher cash contributions to
    the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available
    for other business purposes, and that the Company will have to
    recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would
    decrease the net assets of the Company and result in higher
    expense in future years. During 2008 there was a
    $71 million loss on pension plan assets. The fair value of
    these assets at January 3, 2009 was $265 million.


 


    Overall ESOP expense is affected by the market value of Stanley
    stock on the monthly dates when shares are released, among other
    factors. Net ESOP expense amounted to $11 million in 2008
    and $2 million in both 2007 and 2006. The increase in
    expense was mostly attributable to the average market value of
    shares released which decreased from $49.28 in 2006 to $43.65 in
    2008. However, the Company has discontinued the 401(k) and other
    defined contribution benefits in the ESOP for 2009 as part of
    its cost reduction initiatives and thus there will be a
    reduction in fiscal 2009 expense. In the event these defined
    contribution benefits are offered again, ESOP expense could
    increase in the future if the market value of the Company’s
    common stock declines.


 



    The
    Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts
    receivable.


 


    The Company’s outstanding trade receivables are not
    generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. While the
    Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit
    risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no
    assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk
    and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the
    Company’s financial condition and operating results.







 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B