ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS


The Company’s business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including those risks set forth under the 

4




Table of Contents


heading entitled ‘‘Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995’’, and in other documents that the Company files with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. Under these circumstances, the trading prices of the Company’s securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the Company’s securities.


Continued deterioration of the US housing and construction markets or downturns in these markets in Europe or Asia could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.


Approximately 24% of 2007 sales were in the Americas region in the Construction and Do-It-Yourself segment. This portion of the Company’s business has been adversely affected by the decline in the U.S. housing and general construction markets, though European and Asian sales in this segment were robust in 2007. It is possible this softness in U.S markets will be prolonged and to the extent it persists there is likely to be an unfavorable impact on sales and earnings. Further deterioration of these domestic housing and construction markets in the Americas or downturns in these markets in Europe and Asia could reduce demand for Company products and therefore have a material adverse effect on sales and earnings. In addition, in the event economic conditions worsen, it is possible certain customers’ credit-worthiness may decline resulting in increased write-offs of customer receivables.


The Company’s growth and repositioning strategies include acquisitions. The Company’s recent acquisitions may not further its strategies and the Company may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates.


In 2002, the Company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its business portfolio toward favored growth markets through acquisitions and divestitures, and thereby reduce the risk associated with large customer concentrations. The strategy has been advanced over the last five years with the sales of the Company’s residential entry door and home décor businesses, and the acquisition of a number of companies, including HSM Electronic Protection Services, Inc. (‘‘HSM’’), Facom S.A. (‘‘Facom’’), National Manufacturing Co. (‘‘National’’), Besco Pneumatic Corporation (‘‘Besco’’), Best Lock Corporation and its affiliates (‘‘Best Access’’), Chicago Steel Tape Co. and affiliates (‘‘CST/Berger’’), Blick plc (‘‘Blick’’), Frisco Bay Industries Ltd (‘‘Frisco Bay’’), ISR Sol
utions, Inc. (‘‘ISR’’), Security Group, Inc. (‘‘Security Group’’) and Precision Hardware, Inc. (‘‘Precision’’).


Although the Company has extensive experience with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that recently acquired companies will be successfully integrated and effectively implement the Company’s growth and repositioning strategy. If the Company successfully integrates the acquired companies and effectively implements its repositioning strategy, there can be no assurance that its resulting business segments will enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability.


In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to successfully identify suitable future acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate the new companies as necessary to continue its growth and repositioning strategies.


The Company’s acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations.


The Company has made a number of acquisitions in the past three years, including, but not limited to: InnerSpace in July 2007, HSM in January 2007, Besco in July 2006, Facom in January 2006, National in November 2005, Precision in May 2005, and Security Group in January 2005. The Company may make additional acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including:









• 
the diversion of Company management’s attention and other resources,










• 
the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and










• 
the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies.



Any intangible assets that the Company acquires may have a negative effect on its earnings and return on capital employed. In addition, the success of the Company’s future acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to:

5




Table of Contents








• 
combine operations,










• 
integrate departments, systems and procedures, and










• 
obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions.



Failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the Company’s existing businesses and harm its operational results. The Company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of Facom, National, Besco, HSM, InnerSpace and other acquisitions with its existing businesses and operations. The Company cannot ensure that such integrations will be successfully completed, or that all of the planned synergies will be realized.


The Company may incur significant additional indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with future acquisitions which may restrict the manner in which it conducts business. The potential issuance of such securities may limit the Company’s ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings.


As more fully described in Item 7 and Note I Long-Term Debt and Financing Arrangements of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company issued $450 million of Enhanced Trust Preferred Securities through its Trust subsidiary in 2005, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the acquisitions of Facom and National. In March 2007, the Company completed concurrent offerings of Floating Rate Equity Units and 5% Senior Notes due 2010, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the acquisition of HSM. In addition, the Company has a five year revolving credit agreement, enabling borrowings up to $550 million; this agreement includes provisions that allow designated subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million in Euros and Pounds Sterling, which may be available to, among other things, fund acquisitions.


The instruments and agreements governing certain of the Company’s current indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that include, among other things:









• 
a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the Company and its subsidiaries;










• 
maintenance of specified financial ratios. Failure to maintain such ratios could result in limiting further access to liquidity and requiring the Company to pay all interest coupons on certain debt securities through the issuance of common stock before making further dividend payments on its common shares outstanding;










• 
a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; and










• 
customary events of default. If an event of default occurs and is continuing, the Company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement.



Future new instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive covenants. Such covenants could restrict the Company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies.


The Company’s results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflation in the cost of raw materials, freight and energy.


The Company’s products are manufactured of both ferrous and non-ferrous metals, including but not limited to steel, aluminum, zinc, brass, nickel and copper, as well as resin. Additionally, the Company uses other commodity based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to: plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. As described in more detail in Item 7 hereto, the Company has been negatively impacted by commodity and freight inflation in recent years and it expects energy and certain commodity prices, particularly non-ferrous metals, to increase. If the Company is unable to mitigate these inflation increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected.


Further tightening of credit markets could adversely affect the Company by limiting the Company’s or its customers’ ability to borrow or otherwise obtain cash. 


The Company’s growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of 

6




Table of Contents


existing product lines. While the Company has not encountered difficulties to date, the tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for the Company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. In addition, a large portion of the Company’s products are sold to professionals in the commercial construction industry. To the extent a continued tightening of credit markets results in reduced commercial construction activity, there could be an adverse impact on sales.


The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability.


Exposure to foreign currency risk results because the Company, through its global operations, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. The Company’s predominant exposures are in European, Canadian and Asian currencies, including the Chinese Renminbi (‘‘RMB’’). In preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted average exchange rates. With respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the U.S. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the Company’s earnings could be negatively impacted. Although the Company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that
 such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. The Company does not make a practice of hedging its non U.S. Dollar earnings.


The Company sources significant products from China and other Asian low cost countries for resale in other regions. To the extent the RMB or these other currencies appreciate with respect to the U.S. dollar, the Company may experience cost increases on such purchases. While the 7% appreciation of the RMB during 2007 has not as yet generated material cost increases for products sourced from China, further significant appreciation of the RMB or other currencies in countries where the Company sources product could adversely impact profitability. The Company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases.


The Company’s business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas.


The Company imports large quantities of finished goods, components and raw materials. Substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases (e.g., anti-dumping tariffs), unilateral action. In addition, the countries in which the Company’s products and materials are manufactured or imported from may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. Imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the Company’s cost of goods sold. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the Company’s suppliers’ failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the Company’s business.


The Company’s operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and regulations of the World Trade Organization. Although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the Company’s business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets such as the U.S. or the European Union.


The Company’s ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the U.S. and other countries. These issues could delay importation of products or require the Company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. These alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and financial condition.

7




Table of Contents

Large customer concentrations and related customer inventory adjustments may negatively impact sales, results of operations and cash flows.


The Company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers such as The Home Depot, Lowe’s and Wal-Mart, although no one customer represents more than 10% of consolidated net sales. The loss or material reduction of business from, or the lack of success of sales initiatives for the Company’s products related to, any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations and cash flows.


In addition, unanticipated inventory adjustments by such customers can have a negative impact on sales. For example, severe inventory adjustments taken by certain large North American home center customers in December 2005 negatively impacted sales by approximately $30 million versus normal levels. While the Company did not experience such a significant impact from customer inventory adjustments in late 2006 or 2007, they may re-occur in the future.


Customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.


A substantial portion of the Company’s products in the CDIY and Industrial segments are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels. A consolidation of retailers in both North America and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. The loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business until either such customers were replaced or the Company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business.


If the Company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived tradenames, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. 


As a result of acquisitions, the Company has $1.5 billion of goodwill, $322 million of indefinite-lived tradenames, and $393 million of definite-lived intangible assets recorded on its Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 29, 2007. The Company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived tradenames have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. The definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. Impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside the Company’s control, such as technological change, intensified competition or other matters causing a decline in expected future cash flows. If the Company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived tr
adenames, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected.


Ultimate income tax payments may differ from amounts currently recorded by the Company.  Future tax law changes may materially increase the Company’s prospective income tax expense.


The Company is subject to income taxation in the United States as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. Judgment is required in determining the Company’s worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. The Company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. Although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the Company’s income tax provisions and accruals. Future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. Additionally, it is possible that future income tax legisla
tion may be enacted that could have a material impact on the Company’s worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes effective. Also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would require an initial write-down of any deferred tax assets in the related jurisdiction.


The Company’s failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows.

8




Table of Contents

As described in further detail in Items 1 and 3 and Note S Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the Company’s distributors, intellectual property claims, regulatory actions and environmental matters. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. In addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the Company’s estimates for such contingent liabilities.


The Company’s brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators could negatively impact sales and brand reputation.


The Company’s trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. Unauthorized imitation of its products or unauthorized use of its trademark rights may not only erode sales of the Company’s products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, its ability to effectively represent the Company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, as well as divert management time and attention. There can be no assurance that the Company’s on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights will prevent all violations. In addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries may not allow the Company to protect its proprietary rights to the same extent as it is able to in the United States.


The Company has trademark licensing programs and licensees may not comply with product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements.


The Company licenses certain of its trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of various products. While it enters into comprehensive licensing agreements with its licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, such licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. Non-compliance could include marketing products under the Company’s brand names that do not meet its quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet the Company’s supplier code of conduct. These activities could harm brand equity, reputation and business.


Successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the Company’s ability to recruit and retain qualified employees.


The success of the Company’s efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. The Company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. A shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the Company’s ability to implement its growth strategy.


The Company faces active competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer.


The Company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. The Company’s products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. The Company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. These companies are often located in countries such as China, Taiwan and India where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the United States, Canada and Western Europe. Also, certain large customers offer private label brands that compete with some of the Company’s product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. To remain profitable and defend market share, the Company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing
 products in a timely manner. The Company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins.

9




Table of Contents

The Stanley Fulfillment System (‘‘SFS’’) is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the Company’s business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. In the event the Company is not successful in effectively applying the SFS disciplines to its key business processes its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected.


In addition, the Company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. The Company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. If the Company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the Company may lose market share and profits.


The performance of the Company’s businesses may suffer if its computer systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively, or if planned upgrades to computer systems are not implemented smoothly. 


The Company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. Computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. Consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries.


Despite efforts to prevent such situations, the Company’s systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other matters, power outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. Computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as email, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the Company operates. Management believes it has effective disaster recovery plans and that it is unlikely there would be more than a short-lived disruption to its computer systems due to these physical concentrations of computer equipment, or from potential occurrences of damage and interruption. However, it is reasonably possible that results could be adversely impacted if equipment outages were prolonged due to an unusually serious event. In addition, the Company is in the process of planning and implementing system conversions to SAP version 6.0 (‘&ls
quo;SAP’’) to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. The implementations from legacy systems to SAP will occur in carefully managed stages over a period of three years in the Americas, and ultimately thereafter in Europe and Asia. Management believes the planned system conversions are cost-beneficial and will further enhance productivity in its operations. There can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing. It is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. The risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the SAP conversions are undertaken. If systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the Company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy
 such issues. Any significant disruption in the Company’s computer operations could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.


If the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the Company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating and other expenses. Certain U.S. employee benefit plan expense is affected by the market value of the Company’s common stock.


As described in further detail in Note M Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, the Company sponsors pension and other post retirement defined benefit plans, as well as an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (‘‘ESOP’’) under which the primary U.S. defined contribution and 401(k) plans are funded. The Company’s defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income securities, and money market instruments. The Company’s funding policy is to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which 

10




Table of Contents


require, among other things, that the Company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. The Company expects to contribute approximately $15 million to its pension and other post retirement defined benefit plans in 2008.


There can be no assurance that the value of the plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. It is therefore possible that the Company may be required to make significant additional cash contributions to the plans which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, or that the Company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the Company.


Overall ESOP expense is affected by the market value of Stanley stock on the monthly dates when shares are released, among other factors. Net ESOP expense amounted to $2 million in each of the years 2007, 2006 and 2005. While the average market value of shares released increased from $46.41 in 2005 to $56.04 in 2007, other elements of ESOP expense, including a gradual reduction in the number of shares released annually from the trust, offset the favorable impact of the higher share price.  ESOP expense could increase in the future if the market value of the Company’s common stock declines.


The Company provides a 5% guaranteed rate of return on participant contributions made to the tax deferred 401(K) savings plan prior to July 1998 when all contributions were invested in Stanley common stock. The value of the shares purchased by participants prior to July 1998 along with the 5% cumulative guaranteed rate of return on Stanley common stock is known as an Investment Protection Account (‘‘IPA’’). Beginning in July 1998, the investment options for plan participant contributions were enhanced to include a variety of investment funds in addition to the Company’s common stock, and there is no guaranteed rate of return to participants on any contributions made after that time. The IPA guarantee is included in the actuarial valuation of the ongoing U.S. pension plan. Payments related to the IPA guarantees, if they have any value, would be made to participants over a period of many years generally as they retire. 
In the event the market value of Stanley common stock declines below $43.59 (which is the stock price at which there was a settlement of this liability) additional costs may be triggered by the IPA benefit guarantee.


ITEM 1B