ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    The Company’s business, operations and financial
    condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You
    should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described
    below, together with all of the other information in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K,
    including those risks set forth under the heading entitled
    “Cautionary Statements Under the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995”, and in other documents that
    the Company files with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission, before making any investment decision with respect
    to its securities. If any of the risks or uncertainties actually
    occur or develop, the Company’s business, financial
    condition, results of operations and future growth prospects
    could change. Under these circumstances, the trading prices of
    the Company’s securities could decline, and you could lose
    all or part of your investment in the Company’s
    securities.


 



    If the
    pace of recovery in the retail, residential and commercial
    markets in the Americas, Europe or Asia is sluggish, or general
    economic conditions do not improve, it could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s business.


 


    The Company conducts business in various parts of the world,
    primarily in the United States and Europe and, to a lesser
    extent, in Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean, South
    America, Canada, Asia and Australia. As a result of this
    worldwide exposure, the Company’s businesses could be
    adversely affected by a decline in the U.S. and
    international economies, particularly with respect to
    residential and commercial markets, including, but not limited
    to recession, inflation or deflation. It is possible any such
    softness may result in an unfavorable impact on sales, earnings
    and cash flows. Also, any deterioration of retail, automotive,
    residential or commercial construction markets, changes in
    consumer purchasing power or in general economic conditions,
    could reduce demand for Company products and therefore have a
    material adverse effect on sales, earnings and cash flows. In
    addition, due to such economic conditions, it is possible
    certain customers’ credit-worthiness may erode resulting in
    increased write-offs of customer receivables.


 



    The
    failure to successfully integrate the businesses of Stanley and
    Black & Decker in the expected time frame could
    adversely affect the Company’s future
    results.


 


    The success of the Merger will depend, in large part, on the
    ability of the Company to realize the anticipated benefits,
    including cost savings, from combining the businesses of Stanley
    and Black & Decker. To realize these anticipated
    benefits, the businesses of Stanley and Black & Decker
    must be successfully integrated. This integration is complex and
    time-consuming. The failure to integrate successfully and to
    manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration
    process may result in the combined company not achieving the
    anticipated benefits of the Merger;


 


    Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the
    integration process include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    the inability to successfully integrate the businesses of
    Stanley and Black & Decker in a manner that permits
    the combined company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to
    result from the Merger;




 



     
        •    

    
    the inability to implement information technology system changes
    to get the combined businesses on common platforms;




 



     
        •    

    
    lost sales and customers as a result of customers of either of
    the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined
    company;







    
    8



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex,
    combined business;




 



     
        •    

    
    integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining
    focus on providing consistent, high quality products;




 



     
        •    

    
    potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or
    regulatory conditions associated with the Merger; and




 



     
        •    

    
    performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a
    result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by
    integrating the companies’ operations.





 



    The
    Company has incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial
    integration-related expenses resulting from the
    Merger.


 


    The Company will continue to incur substantial expenses in
    connection with the Merger and the integration of
    Black & Decker including certain restructuring actions
    that may be taken to achieve synergies. Approximately
    $200 million of pre-tax restructuring and integration
    expense pertaining to the Merger is expected to be incurred over
    the next two years, in order to achieve an additional estimated
    $290 million of pre-tax annualized synergy benefits. There
    are a large number of processes, policies, procedures,
    operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated,
    including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing,
    payroll, manufacturing, marketing and benefits. While the
    Company has assumed an estimated $200 million of expenses
    will be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that
    could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration
    expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred
    are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These
    expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the
    savings that the Company expects to achieve from the elimination
    of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of
    scale and cost savings. During 2010 the Company incurred
    $538 million of pre-tax merger and acquisition-related
    charges primarily related to restructuring costs associated with
    facility closures, employee severance charges, certain executive
    compensation charges, investment banking fees, and integration
    related advisory and consulting fees. While management believes
    the $200 million estimate is reasonable, the amount of
    future integration expense is not certain and could result in
    the Company taking significant additional charges against
    earnings in future periods.


 



    The
    Company’s growth and repositioning strategies include
    acquisitions. The Company may not be able to successfully
    integrate the operations of recent acquisitions and the Company
    may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition
    candidates.


 


    In 2002, the Company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its
    business portfolio toward favored growth markets through
    acquisitions and divestitures. The strategy has been advanced
    over the last several years with the Merger and the acquisition
    of a number of companies, including Stanley Solutions de
    Sécurité (“SSDS”), CRC-Evans Pipeline
    International (“CRC-Evans”), GMT, Infologix,
    Générale de Protection (“GdP”), Xmark
    Corporation (“Xmark”), Sonitrol Corporation
    (“Sonitrol”), and HSM Electronic Protection Services,
    Inc. (“HSM”).


 


    The Company expends significant resources identifying
    opportunities to acquire new lines of business and companies
    that could contribute to its success and expansion into existing
    and new markets. Although the Company has extensive experience
    with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that recently
    acquired companies will be successfully integrated or that
    anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will be
    realized. If the Company successfully integrates the acquired
    companies and effectively implements its repositioning strategy,
    there can be no assurance that these acquired businesses will
    enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability.


 


    In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will be
    able to successfully identify suitable future acquisition
    candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary
    financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate
    the new companies as necessary to continue its growth and
    repositioning strategies. If the Company is unable to
    successfully integrate acquisitions, it could have a material
    adverse affect on its business, financial condition and future
    growth.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    The
    Company’s acquisitions may result in certain risks for its
    business and operations.


 


    In addition to the Merger, the Company made one other
    significant acquisition of CRC-Evans in 2010 in addition to nine
    smaller acquisitions, six small acquisitions in 2009, and a
    number of more significant acquisitions in 2008, including, but
    not limited to: GdP in October 2008 and Sonitrol and Xmark in
    July 2008. The Company may make additional acquisitions in the
    future. Acquisitions involve a number of risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    the diversion of Company management’s attention and other
    resources,




 



     
        •    

    
    the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and




 



     
        •    

    
    the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired
    companies.





 


    Any intangible assets that the Company acquires may have a
    negative effect on its earnings and return on capital employed.
    In addition, the success of the Company’s future
    acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    combine operations,




 



     
        •    

    
    integrate departments, systems and procedures, and




 



     
        •    

    
    obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions.





 


    Failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions
    may adversely affect the Company’s existing businesses and
    harm its operational results due to large write-offs, contingent
    liabilities, substantial depreciation, adverse tax or other
    consequences. The Company is still in the process of integrating
    the businesses and operations of Black & Decker,
    CRC-Evans, SSDS and certain other smaller acquisitions made in
    the past two years. The Company cannot ensure that such
    integrations will be successfully completed, or that all of the
    planned synergies will be realized.


 



    The
    Company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant
    indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in
    connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the
    manner in which it conducts business or the Company’s
    access to external sources of liquidity. The potential issuance
    of such securities may limit the Company’s ability to
    implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a
    dilutive effect on earnings.


 


    As described in Note H, Long-Term Debt and Financing
    Arrangements, of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in Item 8, the Company has a committed revolving
    credit agreement, expiring in February 2013, supporting
    borrowings up to $800 million. Upon closing of the Merger,
    the Company entered into a $700 million revolving credit
    agreement that became effective on March 12, 2010 and will
    expire in March 2011. These agreements include provisions that
    allow designated subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million
    in Euros and Pounds Sterling, which may be available to, among
    other things, fund acquisitions.


 


    The instruments and agreements governing certain of the
    Company’s current indebtedness contain requirements or
    restrictive covenants that include, among other things:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the
    Company and its subsidiaries;




 



     
        •    

    
    a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback
    transactions;




 



     
        •    

    
    customary events of default. If an event of default occurs and
    is continuing, the Company might be required to repay all
    amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or
    agreement; and




 



     
        •    

    
    maintenance of a specified financial ratio. The Company has an
    interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit
    continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities.
    The interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance
    compares adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation
    and Amortization to adjusted Interest Expense (“adjusted
    EBITDA”/“adjusted Interest Expense”); such
    adjustments to interest or EBITDA include, but are not limited
    to, removal of non-cash interest expense, certain restructuring
    and other merger and acquisition-related charges as well








    
    10



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    as stock-based compensation expense. The adjustments to interest
    expense and EBITDA for purposes of this interest coverage ratio
    computation are defined in the debt agreements included as
    Exhibits 10.1, 10.2(a), 10.2(b) and 10.2(c) of this Form
    10K. The ratio required for compliance is 3.5 EBITDA to 1.0
    Interest Expense and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve
    months (last twelve months) basis. Under this covenant
    definition, the interest coverage ratio was approximately 11
    times EBITDA or higher in each of the 2010 quarterly measurement
    periods. Management does not believe it is reasonably likely the
    Company will breach this covenant. Failure to maintain this
    ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity.





 


    Future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may
    impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. Such covenants
    could restrict the Company in the manner in which it conducts
    business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth
    and repositioning strategies.


 



    The
    Company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging
    arrangements.


 


    From time to time the Company enters into arrangements with
    financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in
    currency and interest rates, including forward contracts and
    swap agreements. The failure of one or more counterparties to
    the Company’s hedging arrangements to fulfill their
    obligations could adversely affect the Company’s results of
    operations.


 



    The
    Company’s results of operations could be negatively
    impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions
    which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials,
    component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished
    goods in a timely and cost-effective manner.


 


    The Company’s products are manufactured using both ferrous
    and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to steel,
    zinc, copper, brass, aluminum and nickel, and resin also
    represents a significant commodity used in production.
    Additionally, the Company uses other commodity-based materials
    for components and packaging including, but not limited to:
    plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. The
    Company’s cost base also reflects significant elements for
    freight, energy and labor. The Company also sources certain
    finished goods directly from vendors. If the Company is unable
    to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer
    pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its
    profitability may be adversely affected.


 


    Conversely, in the event there is deflation, the Company may
    experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there
    can be no assurance that the Company would be able to reduce its
    cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other
    measures) to offset any such price concessions which could
    adversely impact results of operations and cash flows.


 


    Further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic
    conditions, the Company believes it is possible that a limited
    number of suppliers may either cease operations or require
    additional financial assistance from the Company in order to
    fulfill their obligations. In a limited number of circumstances,
    the magnitude of the Company’s purchases of certain items
    is of such significance that a change in established supply
    relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of
    purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could
    result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or
    an inability to market products. An increase in value-added tax
    rebates currently available to the Company or to its suppliers,
    could also increase the costs of the Company’s manufactured
    products as well as purchased products and components and could
    adversely affect the Company’s results of operations.


 



    Tight
    capital and credit markets could adversely affect the Company by
    limiting the Company’s or its customers’ ability to
    borrow or otherwise access liquidity.


 


    The Company’s growth plans are dependent on, among other
    things, the availability of funding to support corporate
    initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the
    ability to increase sales of existing product lines. While the
    Company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the
    capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and
    disruption in late 2008 and in early 2009. Market conditions
    could make it more difficult for the Company to borrow or
    otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate
    initiatives and acquisitions. In addition, there could be a
    number of follow-on effects from such a credit crisis





    
    11



Table of Contents





    on the Company’s businesses, including: insolvency of key
    suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to
    obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company’s
    products
    and/or
    customer insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties
    and other financial institutions negatively impacting the
    Company’s treasury operations.


 



    The
    Company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates which could negatively impact
    profitability.


 


    The Company manufactures and sell its products in many countries
    throughout the world. As a result, there is exposure to foreign
    currency risk as the Company enters into transactions and makes
    investments denominated in multiple currencies. The
    Company’s predominant exposures are in European, Canadian,
    British, and Asian currencies, including the Chinese Renminbi
    (“RMB”). In preparing its financial statements, for
    foreign operations with functional currencies other than the
    U.S. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at
    current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated
    using weighted-average exchange rates. With respect to the
    effects on translated earnings, if the U.S. dollar
    strengthens relative to local currencies, the Company’s
    earnings could be negatively impacted. In 2010, foreign currency
    translation positively impacted earnings by $0.04 per diluted
    share. The translation impact has been more material in the past
    and may be more material in the future. Although the Company
    utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems
    appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market
    fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance
    that such measures will result in all market fluctuation
    exposure being eliminated. The Company does not make a practice
    of hedging its
    non-U.S. dollar
    earnings.


 


    The Company sources many products from China and other Asian
    low-cost countries for resale in other regions. To the extent
    the RMB or other currencies appreciate with respect to the
    U.S. dollar, the Company may experience cost increases on
    such purchases. The Company may not be successful at
    implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to
    mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability
    may be adversely impacted.


 



    The
    Company’s business is subject to risks associated with
    sourcing and manufacturing overseas.


 


    The Company imports large quantities of finished goods,
    component parts and raw materials. Substantially all of its
    import operations are subject to customs requirements and to
    tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements,
    bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. In
    addition, the countries in which the Company’s products and
    materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time
    impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions
    on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing
    operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. Imports
    are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation
    which may increase the Company’s cost of goods sold.
    Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the
    Company’s suppliers’ failure to comply with customs
    regulations or similar laws, could harm the Company’s
    business.


 


    The Company’s operations are also subject to the effects of
    international trade agreements and regulations such as the North
    American Free Trade Agreement, and the activities and
    regulations of the World Trade Organization. Although these
    trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade
    liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by
    reducing or eliminating the duties
    and/or
    quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular
    country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that
    adversely affect the Company’s business, such as setting
    quotas on products that may be imported from a particular
    country into key markets including the U.S. or the European
    Union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by
    eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the
    Company’s competitors source products.


 


    The Company’s ability to import products in a timely and
    cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at
    ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and
    warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor
    disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security
    requirements in the U.S. and other countries. These issues
    could delay importation of products or require the Company to
    locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid
    disruption to customers. These alternatives may not be available
    on





    
    12



Table of Contents





    short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which
    could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and
    financial condition.


 



    The
    Company’s success depends on its ability to improve
    productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce
    costs.


 


    The Company is committed to continuous productivity improvement
    and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or
    improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. The Company
    has also undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which
    may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness,
    competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas
    such as sales promotion or research and development above levels
    that were otherwise assumed. Failure to achieve or delays in
    achieving projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from
    such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from
    manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in
    progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the
    Company’s results of operations.


 



    Changes
    in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually
    beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory
    reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new
    channels of distribution could adversely affect the
    Company’s business.


 


    The Company has certain significant customers, particularly home
    centers and major retailers, although no one customer
    represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales in 2010.
    However, on a pro-forma basis (as if Black & Decker
    were part of the Company’s results for the entire year
    2010), the two largest customers comprised nearly 21% of net
    sales and U.S. mass merchants and home centers collectively
    comprised approximately 31% of net sales. The loss or material
    reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives,
    or changes in customer preferences or loyalties, for the
    Company’s products related to any such significant customer
    could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s
    results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the
    Company’s major customers are volume purchasers, a few of
    which are much larger than the Company and have strong
    bargaining power with suppliers. This limits the ability to
    recover cost increases through higher selling prices.
    Furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these
    customers can have a negative impact on sales.


 


    During 2009 the Company experienced significant distributor
    inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain
    associated with difficult credit markets. Such distributor
    de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak
    end user demand and the broader economic recession. The
    Industrial segment generally sells to distributors where the
    Company does not have point of sale data to see end user demand
    trends; however, a substantial portion of the overall volume
    declines within the Industrial segment was believed to be
    attributable to such de-stocking or customer inventory
    adjustments. The Company’s results may be adversely
    impacted in future periods by such customer inventory
    adjustments. Further, the inability to continue to penetrate new
    channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the
    Company’s future results.


 



    Customer
    consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s business.


 


    A significant portion of the Company’s products are sold
    through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in
    the U.S. and Europe. A consolidation of retailers in both
    North America and abroad has occurred over time and the
    increasing size and importance of individual customers creates
    risk of exposure to potential volume loss. The loss of certain
    larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse
    effect on the Company’s business until either such
    customers were replaced or the Company made the necessary
    adjustments to compensate for the loss of business.


 



    If the
    Company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill,
    indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible
    assets, its net income and net worth could be materially
    adversely affected.


 


    As a result of the Merger and previous acquisitions, the Company
    has $5.942 billion of goodwill, $1.652 billion of
    indefinite-lived trade names, and $1.220 billion of
    definite-lived intangible assets at January 1, 2011. The





    
    13



Table of Contents





    Company is required to periodically, at least annually,
    determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have
    become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired
    portion of the intangible asset. The definite-lived intangible
    assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over
    their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for
    impairment when appropriate. Impairment of intangible assets may
    be triggered by developments outside of the Company’s
    control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological
    change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in
    deleterious consequences.


 



    Income
    tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently
    recorded by the Company. Future tax law changes may materially
    increase the Company’s prospective income tax
    expense.


 


    The Company is subject to income taxation in the U.S. as
    well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. Judgment is required in
    determining the Company’s worldwide income tax provision
    and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for
    which the final income tax determination is uncertain. The
    Company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many
    tax jurisdictions. Although management believes the recorded tax
    estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit
    (or related litigation) could be materially different from
    amounts reflected in the Company’s income tax provisions
    and accruals. Future settlements of income tax audits may have a
    material effect on earnings between the period of initial
    recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the
    point of ultimate tax audit settlement. Additionally, it is
    possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that
    could have a material impact on the Company’s worldwide
    income tax provision beginning with the period that such
    legislation becomes effective. Also, while a reduction in
    statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net
    earnings, it would require an initial write down of any deferred
    tax assets in the related jurisdiction.


 



    The
    Company’s failure to continue to successfully avoid,
    manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation
    could negatively impact its results of operations or cash
    flows.


 


    The Company is exposed to and becomes involved in various
    litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct
    of its business, including, from time to time, actual or
    threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial
    transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the
    Company’s distributors and franchisees, intellectual
    property claims and regulatory actions.


 


    In addition, the Company is subject to environmental laws in
    each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. Some of the
    Company’s products incorporate substances that are
    regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts
    manufacturing operations. The Company could be subject to
    liability if it does not comply with these regulations. In
    addition, the Company is currently, and may in the future, be
    held responsible for remedial investigations and
    clean-up
    costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into
    the environment, including sites that have never been owned or
    operated by the Company but at which it has been identified as a
    potentially responsible party under federal and state
    environmental laws and regulations. Changes in environmental and
    other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign
    jurisdictions could adversely affect the Company’s
    operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential
    liability for non-compliance.


 


    There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
    continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters.
    In addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating
    certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods
    may vary from the Company’s estimates for such contingent
    liabilities.


 



    The
    Company’s brands are important assets of its businesses and
    violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure
    of its licensees or vendors to comply with the Company’s
    product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing
    standards, and other requirements could negatively impact
    revenues and brand reputation.


 


    The Company’s trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and
    value and are important to its success and competitive position.
    Unauthorized use of the Company’s trademark rights may not
    only erode sales of the Company’s products, but may also
    cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation,
    interfere with its ability to effectively represent the Company
    to its customers, contractors, suppliers,
    and/or
    licensees, and increase litigation costs. Similarly, failure by
    licensees or vendors to adhere to the Company’s standards
    of





    
    14



Table of Contents





    quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss
    of revenue, increased litigation,
    and/or
    damage to the Company’s reputation and business. There can
    be no assurance that the Company’s on-going effort to
    protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance
    with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all
    violations.


 



    Successful
    sales and marketing efforts depend on the Company’s ability
    to recruit and retain qualified employees.


 


    The success of the Company’s efforts to grow its business
    depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives,
    its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of
    its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales
    organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. The Company
    must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate
    management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain
    its current business and support its projected growth. A
    shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the
    Company’s ability to implement its growth strategy.


 



    The
    Company faces active global competition and if it does not
    compete effectively, its business may suffer.


 


    The Company faces active competition and resulting pricing
    pressures. The Company’s products compete on the basis of,
    among other things, its reputation for product quality, its
    well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service
    capabilities. The Company competes with both larger and smaller
    companies that offer the same or similar products and services
    or that produce different products appropriate for the same
    uses. These companies are often located in countries such as
    China, Taiwan and India where labor and other production costs
    are substantially lower than in the U.S., Canada and Western
    Europe. Also, certain large customers offer house brands that
    compete with some of the Company’s product offerings as a
    lower-cost alternative. To remain profitable and defend market
    share, the Company must maintain a competitive cost structure,
    develop new products and services, lead product innovation,
    respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing
    products in a timely manner. The Company may not be able to
    compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its
    competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material
    adverse effect on its sales and profit margins.


 


    The Stanley Fulfillment System (“SFS”) is a continuous
    operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the
    Company’s business such as procurement, quality in
    manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating
    acquisitions and other key business processes. In the event the
    Company is not successful in effectively applying the SFS
    disciplines to its key business processes, including those of
    acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings
    could be adversely affected.


 


    In addition, the Company may have to reduce prices on its
    products and services, or make other concessions, to stay
    competitive and retain market share. Price reductions taken by
    the Company in response to customer and competitive pressures,
    as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to
    drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels,
    could also negatively impact its business. The Company engages
    in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of
    production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to
    maintain a competitive cost structure. If the Company does not
    execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer
    demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely
    impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure
    are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the
    Company may lose market share and profits.


 



    The
    performance of the Company may suffer from business disruptions
    associated with information technology, system implementations,
    or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other
    infrastructure.


 


    The Company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and
    operate its businesses, and record and process transactions.
    Computer systems are important to production planning, customer
    service and order fulfillment among other business-critical
    processes. Consistent and efficient operation of the computer
    hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful
    sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many
    countries.




    
    15



Table of Contents





    Despite efforts to prevent such situations, insurance policies
    and loss control and risk management practices, that partially
    mitigate these risks, the Company’s systems may be affected
    by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power
    outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. Computer
    hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient
    operations, such as
    e-mail,
    telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain
    physical locations in the various continents in which the
    Company operates.


 


    In addition, the Company is in the process of implementing
    system conversions to SAP to provide a common platform across
    most of its businesses. There can be no assurances that expected
    expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be
    delays to the expected timing. It is possible the costs to
    complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations,
    and that significant costs may be incurred that will require
    immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. The
    risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex
    system changes such as the SAP conversions are undertaken. If
    systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged,
    operational delays may ensue and the Company may be forced to
    make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. Any
    significant disruption in the Company’s computer operations
    could have a material adverse impact on its business and results
    of operations.


 


    The Company’s operations are significantly dependent on
    infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and
    security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in
    various geographic locations. If any of these were to experience
    a catastrophic loss, such as a fire, earthquake, hurricane, or
    flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments
    and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace
    the facility. The Company maintains business interruption
    insurance, but it may not fully protect the Company against all
    adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions.


 


    Unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other
    international conflicts and public health issues, whether
    occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our
    operations, disrupt the operations of our suppliers or
    customers, or result in political or economic instability. These
    events could reduce demand for our products and make it
    difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products,
    deliver products to customers, or to receive materials from
    suppliers.


 



    If the
    investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as
    expected, the Company may have to contribute additional amounts
    to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover
    operating expenses or other business purposes.


 


    The Company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined
    benefit plans. The Company’s defined benefit plan assets
    are currently invested in equity securities, bonds and other
    fixed income securities, and money market instruments. The
    Company’s funding policy is generally to contribute amounts
    determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current
    and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which
    require, among other things, that the Company make cash
    contributions to under-funded pension plans. During 2010, the
    Company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of
    $277 million and it expects to contribute approximately
    $140 million to its defined benefit plans in 2011.


 


    There can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit
    plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets,
    will be sufficient in the future. It is therefore possible that
    the Company may be required to make higher cash contributions to
    the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available
    for other business purposes, and that the Company will have to
    recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would
    decrease the net assets of the Company and result in higher
    expense in future years. The fair value of these assets at
    January 1, 2011 was $1.751 billion.


 



    The
    Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts
    receivable.


 


    The Company’s outstanding trade receivables are not
    generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. While the
    Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit
    risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no
    assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk
    and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the
    Company’s financial condition and operating results.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    Low
    demand for new products and the inability to develop and
    introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely
    impact the Company’s performance and prospects for future
    growth.


 


    The Company’s competitive advantage is due in part to its
    ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner
    at favorable margins. The uncertainties associated with
    developing and introducing new products, such as market demand
    and costs of development and production, may impede the
    successful development and introduction of new products on a
    consistent basis. Introduction of new technology may result in
    higher costs to the Company than that of the technology
    replaced. That increase in costs, which may continue
    indefinitely or until and if increased demand and greater
    availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its
    cost, could adversely affect the Company’s results of
    operations. Market acceptance of the new products introduced in
    recent years and scheduled for introduction in 2011 may not
    meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the
    failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user
    preferences, and evolving industry standards. Moreover, the
    ultimate success and profitability of the new products may
    depend on the Company’s ability to resolve technical and
    technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner,
    and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. The Company’s
    investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund
    advertising and product promotions in connection with these new
    products could erode profits if those expectations are not met.


 



    The
    Company’s products could be subject to product liability
    claims and litigation.


 


    The Company manufactures products, configures and installs
    security systems and performs various services that create
    exposure to product and professional liability claims and
    litigation. If such products, systems and services are not
    properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or
    delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business
    interruption could result, which could subject the Company to
    claims for damages. The costs associated with defending product
    liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial.
    The Company’s reputation could also be adversely affected
    by such claims, whether or not successful.


 



    The
    Company’s products could be recalled.


 


    The Consumer Product Safety Commission or other applicable
    regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement
    of the Company’s products if those products are found not
    to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. A
    recall could increase costs and adversely impact the
    Company’s reputation.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B