ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



CERTAIN BUSINESS RISKS



We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, many of which are
beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks, which may affect our future
operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to
consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem
immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in
general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties
actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer.


We operate in the highly cyclical wireless communications semiconductor industry, which is subject
to significant downturns.


We operate primarily in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change
and evolving industry standards. From time to time, changes in general economic conditions,
together with other factors, cause significant upturns and downturns in the industry. Periods of
industry downturn are characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, excess
inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. These characteristics, and in
particular their impact on the level of demand for digital cellular handsets, may cause substantial
fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. Furthermore, downturns in the semiconductor
industry may be severe and prolonged, and any prolonged delay or failure of the industry or the
wireless communications market to recover from downturns would materially and adversely affect our
business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry also
periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity and materials constraints, which
may affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. We have experienced these cyclical
fluctuations in our business and may experience cyclical fluctuations in the future.


Uncertainties involving shifting marketplace dynamics.


Our operating results for fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2006 were adversely affected by shifting
marketplace dynamics which favored Tier I and Tier II handset manufacturers and suppliers.
Consolidation of the global handset marketplace from smaller Tier III handset customers primarily
located in developing countries to Tier I and Tier II customers accelerated in fiscal 2006. This
trend led to a slowdown in customer orders, increasing channel inventories and customer defaults on
accounts receivable. We responded to this rapidly changing dynamic by exiting our baseband product
area in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. While this marketplace shift only affected our baseband
product area there can be no assurances that future changes in marketplace conditions in our other
product areas will not materially and adversely affect our operating results. We may not be able to
respond to shifting customer demand in other product areas on a timely basis, if at all, and
accordingly this could result in a material and adverse impact to our operating results.


We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and may experience future losses.



Our operating results for fiscal years 2002 and 2003 were adversely affected by a global economic
slowdown, decreased consumer confidence, reduced capital spending, and adverse business conditions
and liquidity concerns in the telecommunications and related industries. These factors led to a
slowdown in customer orders, an increase in the number of cancellations and reschedulings of
backlog, higher overhead costs as a percentage of our reduced net revenue, and an abrupt decline in
demand for many of the end-user products that incorporate our wireless communications semiconductor
products and system solutions. Although we emerged from this period of economic


12




Table of Contents





weakness in fiscal 2004, should economic conditions deteriorate for any reason, it could result in
underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, reduced revenues or changes in our revenue mix, and
other impacts that would materially and adversely affect our operating results. Due to this
economic uncertainty, although we were profitable in fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2005, we cannot assure
you that we will be able to sustain such profitability or that we will not experience future
operating losses.


Additionally, the conflict in Iraq, as well as other contemporary international conflicts, natural
disasters, acts of terrorism, and civil and military unrest contributes to the economic
uncertainty. These continuing and potentially escalating conflicts can also be expected to place
continued pressure on economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These conditions make
it extremely difficult for our customers, our vendors and for us to accurately forecast and plan
future business activities. If such uncertainty continues or economic conditions worsen (or both),
our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely
affected.


The wireless semiconductor markets are characterized by intense competition.



The wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete
in particular are intensely competitive. We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor
manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share. We currently face significant
competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product competition will continue.
This competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, declining average
selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or increasing market share.
Furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of growth opportunities in
communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign and domestic competitors
and technological and public policy changes. We believe that the principal competitive factors for
semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others:






     
    •
     
    rapid time-to-market and product ramp,



     

     
    •
     
    timely new product innovation,



     

     
    •
     
    product quality, reliability and performance,



     

     
    •
     
    product price,



     

     
    •
     
    features available in products,



     

     
    •
     
    compliance with industry standards,



     

     
    •
     
    strategic relationships with customers, and



     

     
    •
     
    access to and protection of intellectual property.





We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully address these factors. Many of our
competitors enjoy the benefit of:






     
    •
     
    long presence in key markets,



     

     
    •
     
    name recognition,



     

     
    •
     
    high levels of customer satisfaction,



     

     
    •
     
    ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and



     

     
    •
     
    strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or other resources.





13




Table of Contents



As a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging
technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the
development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.


Current and potential competitors have established or may in the future establish, financial or
strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. These
relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new
competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market
share. Furthermore, some of our customers have divisions that internally develop or manufacture
products similar to ours, and may compete with us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to
compete successfully against current and potential competitors. Increased competition could result
in pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.


Our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized.



Our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including for causes beyond our
control. The fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process
consisting of hundreds of separate steps. It requires production in a highly controlled, clean
environment. Minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of
the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in
equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial
percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to malfunction. Because our
operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at
acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material adverse affect on our
business. In addition, we may discover from time to time defects in our products after they have
been shipped, which may require us to pay warranty claims, replace products, or pay costs
associated with the recall of a customer’s products containing our parts.


Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at
any of our production facilities or those of our subcontractors. These disruptions may include
electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or
risks, or other natural or man-made disasters. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations could
cause significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected
facility or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor. In the event of such delays, we
cannot assure you that the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity,
would be available on a timely basis or at all. Even if alternative wafer production or assembly
and test capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could
result in higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain sufficient
manufacturing capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities or through external
manufacturing or similar arrangements with others.


Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing
process, in the event of a disruption at the Newbury Park, California or Woburn, Massachusetts
semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities, alternative gallium arsenide production capacity would
not be immediately available from third-party sources. These disruptions could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


We may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our
gross margin and profitability.


Minor deviations or perturbations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing
yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Manufacturing yields for new
products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume
manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. Our forward
product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result,
material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on
our gross margin and profitability. The difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields
and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be
magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. Our
manufacturing operations will also face pressures arising from the compression of product life
cycles, which will require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while
maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the
longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining
costs.


14




Table of Contents



We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products.



We rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based
products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. There are significant
risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including:






     
    •
     
    the lack of ensured wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer
prices,



     

     
    •
     
    limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs
and quality assurance, and



     

     
    •
     
    the inaccessibility of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process
technologies.





Although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing
capacity, the third-party foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to the production
requirements of other customers. If we choose to use a new foundry, it will typically take an
extended period of time to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products
from the new foundry. The foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver
products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly
since some of them are located in earthquake zones. If any disruption of manufacturing capacity
occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. We may therefore
experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could
impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating
results.


Although we own and operate a test and assembly facility, we still depend on subcontractors to
package, assemble and test certain of our products. We do not have long-term agreements with any
of our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per
order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial
difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other
disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and
testing services in a timely manner. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify
assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are
required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may
encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer
relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuing to
develop relationships with additional third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products.
However, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the
risks described above.


We are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components.



Our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and the
components used in our manufacturing processes. Although we maintain relationships with suppliers
located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have adequate sources for the
supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs, recent increased demand from
the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components has resulted in tighter supplies.
We cannot assure you that our suppliers will be able to meet our delivery schedules, that we will
not lose a significant or sole supplier, or that a supplier will be able to meet performance and
quality specifications. If a supplier were unable to meet our delivery schedules, or if we lost a
supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality specifications, our ability to
satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we review our
relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs on an
ongoing basis. In connection with our ongoing review, we may modify or terminate our relationship
with one or more suppliers. We may also enter into other sole supplier arrangements to meet certain
of our raw material or component needs. While we do not typically rely on a single source of supply
for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a sole-source supplier for epitaxial wafers
used in the gallium arsenide semiconductor manufacturing processes at our manufacturing facilities.
If we were to lose this sole source of supply, for any reason, a material adverse effect on our
business could result until an alternate source is obtained. To the extent we enter into additional
sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw materials or components, the risks associated with
our supply arrangements would be exacerbated.


15




Table of Contents



Changes in the accounting treatment of share-based compensation have adversely affected our results
of operations.


In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based
Payment” to require companies to expense employee stock options for financial reporting purposes.
Such equity-based award expensing has required us to value our employee stock option grants and
other equity-based awards pursuant to an option valuation formula and amortize that value against
our earnings over the vesting period in effect for those options. Historically we accounted for
stock-based awards to employees in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
“Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and had adopted the disclosure-only alternative of SFAS
No. 123, “Accounting for Share-Based Compensation.” We implemented SFAS 123(R) in the reporting
period starting October 1, 2005. This change in accounting treatment has materially affected our
reported results of operations as the share-based compensation expense has been and will continue
to be charged directly against our reported earnings but will have no impact on cash flows from
operations. We anticipate that our share-based compensation expense will approximate $24.2 million
in total from fiscal 2007 through 2010. This expense projection is calculated as of September 29,
2006 and does not take into account any future equity awards that we might issue nor does it
account for future actual stock-based award forfeitures. We will be required to adjust future
share-based compensation expense for actual future stock option forfeitures.


Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner.



The wireless communications semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, the markets into
which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid
technological change, rapid product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards, short
product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased miniaturization,
and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Our operating results depend largely on our
ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. The
successful development and commercialization of semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex
and depends on numerous factors, including:






     
    •
     
    the ability to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in
technology and industry standards,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to obtain capacity sufficient to meet customer demand,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to define new products that meet customer and market requirements,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a timely basis,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors,



     

     
    •
     
    overall market acceptance of our products, and



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products.





Our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends, among other
factors, on the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems (“IT
Systems”).


We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to make the substantial investment in
research and development needed to develop and bring to market new and enhanced products in a
timely manner. We will be required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product
development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market
growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless
communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will
satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or that we will be able to anticipate
new industry standards and technological changes. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to
respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in
the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products
interface. If we fail to


16




Table of Contents





rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in sufficient quantities and that
meet our customers requirements, our business and results of operations would be materially and
adversely harmed.


In addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. We believe
that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and delivering
existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced products. We
cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to reduce the cost of our products to remain
competitive.


The markets into which we sell our products are characterized by rapid technological change.



The demand for our products can change quickly and in ways we may not anticipate. Our markets
generally exhibit the following characteristics:






     
    •
     
    rapid technological developments and product evolution,



     

     
    •
     
    rapid changes in customer requirements,



     

     
    •
     
    frequent new product introductions and enhancements,



     

     
    •
     
    demand for higher levels of integration, decreased size and decreased power consumption,



     

     
    •
     
    short product life cycles with declining prices over the life cycle of the product, and



     

     
    •
     
    evolving industry standards.





These changes in our markets may contribute to the obsolescence of our products. Our products could
become obsolete or less competitive sooner than anticipated because of a faster than anticipated
change in one or more of the above-noted factors.


The ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design, development,
manufacture and sale of our products is critical to our success.


As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a
significant asset. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate
qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel.
The competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry,
and therefore we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management
and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. We
may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor
operating performance, given, among other things, the use of equity-based compensation by us and
our competitors. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to
attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our
ability to operate our business.


If OEMs and Original Design Manufacturers (“ODMs”) of communications electronics products do not
design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. Moreover,
a “design win” from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer.


Our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other
products. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs of wireless communications electronics products to
select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. Without
these “design wins,” we would have difficulty selling our products. If a manufacturer designs
another supplier’s product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to
achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost,
time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. Also, achieving a design win with a
customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. Even after a
design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to
reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially
successful, or for any other reason. We cannot assure you that we


17




Table of Contents





will continue to achieve design wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and any failure
to do so could materially and adversely affect our operating results.


Lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in
significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products.


After our product has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six
months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate our product and an additional three to six months
or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. This lengthy cycle
time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which
could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we
may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative
expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never
generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer
cancels or changes its product plans.


Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely
affect our business.


Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term supply
arrangements with our customers. Our customers may cancel orders before shipment. Additionally, we
sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold
products. We may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates of customer demand for our
products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs
indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts of demand will
then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change
their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The cancellation or deferral of product
orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to a change in anticipated
order volumes could result in us holding excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in
inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition.


In addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in
demand or for any other reason, the customer’s ability to make timely payments to us for
non-returnable products could be impaired.


In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006, the Company recorded bad debt expense of $35.1 million.
Specifically, the Company recorded charges related to two customers: Vitelcom Mobile and an Asian
component distributor.


Our leverage and our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow.



On September 29, 2006, we had total indebtedness of approximately $229.3 million, which represented
approximately 25.2% of our total capitalization.


As long as our 4.75 percent convertible subordinated notes due November 2007 remain outstanding, we
will have debt service obligations on such notes of approximately $8.5 million per year. If we
issue other debt securities in the future, our debt service obligations will increase.


Based on our results of operations for fiscal 2006 and current trends, we expect our existing
sources of liquidity, together with cash expected to be generated from operations and short term
investments along with our ability to access financial markets for additional debt or equity
financing, will allow us to sufficiently fund our research and development, capital expenditures,
debt obligations (to replace existing or maturing debt instruments), purchase obligations, working
capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. If necessary, among other
alternatives, we may add lease lines of credit to finance capital expenditures and we may obtain
other long-term debt, lines of credit and other financing.


Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including:






     
    •
     
    increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions,





18




Table of Contents







     
    •
     
    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing,



     

     
    •
     
    requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of any cash flow from
operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow
available for other purposes, including capital expenditures,



     

     
    •
     
    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business
and the industry in which we compete, and



     

     
    •
     
    placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors
and competitors that have better access to capital resources.





Despite our current debt levels, we are able to incur substantially more debt, which would increase
the risks described above.


Our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material
adverse effect on the results of our operations.


Significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. If we lost
one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly decreased its
orders for our products, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Sales to our
three largest customers, including sales to their manufacturing subcontractors, represented
approximately 50.0% of our net revenue for fiscal 2006. We expect that our largest customers will
continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue in fiscal 2007 and for the
foreseeable future.


Average product life cycles in the semiconductor industry tend to be very short.


In the semiconductor industry, product life cycles tend to be short relative to the sales and
development cycles. Therefore, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not result
in material revenue, and from time to time we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory.
If we were to incur significant marketing expenses and investments in inventory that we are not
able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results would
be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in
anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating
results would be harmed.


We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it.



We might obtain additional sources of financing in the future. Based on our results of operations
for fiscal 2006 and current trends, we expect our existing sources of liquidity, together with cash
expected to be generated from operations and short term investments along with our ability to
access financial markets for additional debt or equity financing, will likely allow us to
sufficiently fund our research and development, capital expenditures, debt obligations, purchase
obligations, working capital and other cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. To the
extent that existing cash and securities and cash from operations are insufficient to fund our
future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private equity or debt
financing. Conditions existing in the U.S. capital markets, if and when we seek additional
financing as well as the then current condition of the Company, will affect our ability to raise
capital, as well as the terms of any such financing. We may not be able to raise enough capital to
meet our capital needs on a timely basis or at all. Failure to obtain capital when required would
have a material adverse effect on us.


In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our
business may require additional capital resources. We cannot assure you that the capital required
to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future.



19




Table of Contents


Remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry
process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration.


In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to
increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing
processes for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some
existing products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry
process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing
yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties,
delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes in the
future. In some instances, we depend on our relationships with our foundries to transition to
smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will be able to
effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our foundry relationships. If
our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently
implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be
materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect
to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party
intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of
design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all.


We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.



A substantial majority of our net revenues are derived from customers located outside the United
States, primarily countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. In addition, we have
suppliers located outside the United States, and third-party packaging, assembly and test
facilities and foundries located in the Asia-Pacific region. Finally, we have our own packaging,
assembly and test facility in Mexicali, Mexico. Our international sales and operations are subject
to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. These include, but are not limited
to, risks regarding:






     
    •
     
    currency exchange rate fluctuations,



     

     
    •
     
    local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political instability,



     

     
    •
     
    disruptions of capital and trading markets,



     

     
    •
     
    inability to collect accounts receivable,



     

     
    •
     
    restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and
trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, import or
export controls and tariffs),



     

     
    •
     
    changes in legal or regulatory requirements,



     

     
    •
     
    natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war,



     

     
    •
     
    limitations on the repatriation of funds,



     

     
    •
     
    difficulty in obtaining distribution and support,



     

     
    •
     
    cultural differences in the conduct of business,



     

     
    •
     
    the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade,
foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements,



     

     
    •
     
    tax laws,



     

     
    •
     
    the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction, and



     

     
    •
     
    limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our
intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction.





20




Table of Contents



Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide
subsidies on handset sales to their customers. Increases in handset prices that negatively impact
handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact
the demand for our products. Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in South Korea,
Japan, China and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.


Our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations
and market downturns.


Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and our revenues,
earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a
number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.


These factors include, among others:






     
    •
     
    changes in end-user demand for the products (principally digital cellular
handsets) manufactured and sold by our customers,



     

     
    •
     
    the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average
selling prices of our products,



     

     
    •
     
    production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields,



     

     
    •
     
    availability and cost of products from our suppliers,



     

     
    •
     
    the gain or loss of significant customers,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis,



     

     
    •
     
    new product and technology introductions by competitors,



     

     
    •
     
    changes in the mix of products produced and sold,



     

     
    •
     
    market acceptance of our products and our customers, and



     

     
    •
     
    intellectual property disputes.





The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could
materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. If our operating results
fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect
the price of our common stock.


Global economic conditions that impact the wireless communications industry could negatively affect
our revenues and operating results.


Global economic weakness can have wide-ranging effects on markets that we serve, particularly
wireless communications equipment manufacturers and network operators. Although the wireless
communications industry has recovered somewhat from an industry-wide recession, such recovery may
not continue. In addition, we cannot predict what effects negative events, such as war or other
international conflicts, may have on the economy or the wireless communications industry. The
continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this
threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to the global economy and to
the wireless communications industry and create further uncertainties. Further, a continued
economic recovery may not benefit us in the near term. If it does not, our ability to increase or
maintain our revenues and operating results may be impaired.



21




Table of Contents


Our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives.


Among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and
components, principally power amplifiers and switches. The production of gallium arsenide
integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits. The cost differential
is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with
smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. Therefore, to remain competitive, we must offer
gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts.
If we do not continue to offer products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify
the cost differential, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We expect
the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing
their silicon counterparts. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies
for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. We
cannot assure you that we will continue to identify products and markets that require performance
attributes of gallium arsenide solutions.


We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands
that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us
from using our technology.


The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual
property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert
patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are
important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their
technology or refrain from using it.


Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe
intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual
indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and
divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Regardless of the
merits of any specific claim, we cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation because of
the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If
litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to:






     
    •
     
    pay substantial damages,



     

     
    •
     
    cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes,



     

     
    •
     
    discontinue the use of infringing technology,



     

     
    •
     
    expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and



     

     
    •
     
    license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may
not be available on commercially reasonable terms.





We cannot assure you that our operating results or financial condition will not be materially
adversely affected if we were required to do any one or more of the foregoing items.


Many of our products incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties.



We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological changes; evolving
industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing
levels of integration. Our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain
technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain in a
competitive posture. If licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable
terms and conditions, and we cannot otherwise integrate such technology, our products or our
customers’ products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. In such
instances, we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop
substitute technology to deliver competitive products.



22




Table of Contents



If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to
compete.


We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well
as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary
technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms and processes. In addition, we often
incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our
designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party
intellectual property. In the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like
activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to
determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This
could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our
management and technical personnel from our business operations. We cannot assure you that:






     
    •
     
    the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other
violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers,
suppliers or other third parties will be successful,



     

     
    •
     
    any existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other
intellectual property rights or ours will not be challenged, invalidated or
circumvented, or



     

     
    •
     
    any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection.





Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use
our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our
patents. If any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology,
it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in
loss of market share and price erosion. Even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be
broad enough to adequately protect our technology. Furthermore, even if we receive patent
protection in the United States, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in
foreign countries. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection
may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries.


There is a growing industry trend to include or adapt “open source” software that is generally made
available to the public by its developers, authors or third parties. Often such software includes
license provisions, requiring public disclosure of any derivative works containing open source
code. There is little legal precedent in the area of open source software or its effects on
copyright law or the protection of proprietary works. We take steps to avoid the use of open source
works in our proprietary software, and are taking steps to limit our suppliers from doing so.
However, in the event a copyright holder were to demonstrate in court that we have not complied
with a software license, we may be required to cease production or distribution of that work or to
publicly disclose the source code for our proprietary software, which may negatively affect our
operations or stock price.


We attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through
operational, technological and legal safeguards. Despite our efforts, parties, including former or
current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our
authorization. Furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems
or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or interrupt our
operations. While we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the
methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information.


Our success depends, in part, on our ability to effect suitable investments, alliances and
acquisitions, and to integrate companies we acquire.


Although we have in the past and intend to continue to invest significant resources in internal
research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes and the
significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to pursue
development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we intend to review
investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment
our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that
we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition
transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in:






     
    •
     
    issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders,





23




Table of Contents







     
    •
     
    large one-time write-offs,



     

     
    •
     
    the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities,



     

     
    •
     
    the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company,



     

     
    •
     
    amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and



     

     
    •
     
    the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns.





Moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult,
expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and
customers and ultimately may not be successful. Additionally, in periods following an acquisition,
we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment.
When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with
a charge against earnings. For instance, we recorded a cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle in fiscal 2003 in the amount of $397.1 million as a result of the goodwill obtained in
connection with the Merger.


Certain provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for
someone to acquire control of us.


We have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. Our certificate of
incorporation, our by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that
would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our
Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as:






     
    •
     
    the division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a
staggered basis, one class each year,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one
or more series without further authorization of stockholders,



     

     
    •
     
    a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent,



     

     
    •
     
    elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders,



     

     
    •
     
    a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder
nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any meeting
of stockholders,



     

     
    •
     
    a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3 percent of our shares
be obtained to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of our
certificate of incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws,



     

     
    •
     
    a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained
to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the
election and removal of directors, the classified board or the right to act by written
consent,



     

     
    •
     
    a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be obtained
for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the Board of
Directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination is the
beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of Board of
Directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner of 5%
or more of our shares,



     

     
    •
     
    a fair price provision, and





24




Table of Contents







     
    •
     
    a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be obtained
to amend or repeal the fair price provision.





In addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Section 203 of the
Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation shall not engage in any
business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the
time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors
then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the
stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are
met.


Increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our
existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce
our products.


The semiconductor and electronics industries have been subject to increasing environmental
regulations. A number of domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various
substances, a number of which have been used in our products or processes. For example, the
European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS)
Directive now requires that certain substances be removed from all electronics components. Removing
such substances requires the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek
alternative substances, as well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our
products and compliance with the RoHS Directive. While we have implemented a compliance program to
ensure our product offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative
substances will not be available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single
source, or may be significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. Additionally,
if we were found to be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to
fines, penalties and/or restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our
operating results.


We may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could
adversely impact our business.


We have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing
operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental
protection regulations in the United States and in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that
current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products would not have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental
regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations
regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of
environmental matters, including potential liabilities. Furthermore, our customers increasingly
require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. We cannot
assure you that the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy
environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable
environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.


Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future. Accordingly, you might not be
able to sell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them.


The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such
fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including:






     
    •
     
    our performance and prospects,



     

     
    •
     
    the performance and prospects of our major customers,



     

     
    •
     
    the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock,



     

     
    •
     
    investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate,



     

     
    •
     
    changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts,





25




Table of Contents







     
    •
     
    general financial and other market conditions, and



     

     
    •
     
    domestic and international economic conditions.





Public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility,
particularly in the technology sectors of the market. This volatility has significantly affected
the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to or
disproportionately impacted by the operating performance of these companies. These broad market
fluctuations may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock.


In addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and our price-to-earnings
multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often
shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction,
particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. Our Company has been, and in the future may be, the
subject of commentary by financial news media. Such commentary may contribute to volatility in our
stock price. If our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or
investors, our stock price may decline, possibly substantially over a short period of time.
Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you
paid.





ITEM 1B