ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.


You should carefully consider the risks
described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an
investment decision.  Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed
by any of these risks.  The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we
face.  Additional risks not currently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to
present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations,
financial condition or results from operations.


We operate in the highly cyclical wireless communications semiconductor industry, which is subject
to significant downturns.


We operate primarily in the wireless
semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid declines in demand for end-user
products in both the consumer and enterprise markets. Recently, deteriorating economic conditions
worldwide, together with other factors such as the unprecedented volatility of the financial
markets and liquidity concerns, make it difficult for our customers and for us to accurately
forecast and plan future business activities. If such uncertainty and economic weakness
continues, the market for wireless semiconductor products is likely to contract and, as
a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations for our current
fiscal year would likely be materially and adversely affected. Such periods of industry
downturn are characterized by diminished product demand, manufacturing overcapacity,
excess inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Furthermore,
downturns in the wireless semiconductor industry may be prolonged and any extended delay
or failure of the wireless semiconductor market to recover from an economic downturn would
materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations
beyond our current fiscal year.


12




Table of Contents






We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past and may experience future losses.



In the past, weak global economic conditions have led to a slowdown in customer orders, an increase
in the number of cancellations and reschedulings of backlog, and higher overhead costs as a
percentage of our reduced net revenue. These factors contributed to operating losses for our
business in the past. Additionally, we have incurred operating losses in connection with the
restructuring of our business; for example, we had operating losses of $66.3 million during fiscal
year 2006 in connection with the exit of our baseband product area. While we had positive
operating results during fiscal years 2007 and 2008, we may experience future losses as a result of
a significant downturn in the economy, as a result of corporate restructuring activities, as a
result of market factors beyond our control or as a result of a combination of the foregoing.


Our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations
and market downturns.


Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and our revenues,
earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a
number of factors, many of which are beyond our control.


These factors include, among others:






     
    •
     
    changes in end-user demand for the products (principally cellular handsets) manufactured
and sold by our customers,



     

     
    •
     
    the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices
of our products,



     

     
    •
     
    production capacity levels and fluctuations in manufacturing yields,



     

     
    •
     
    availability and cost of materials and services from our suppliers,



     

     
    •
     
    the gain or loss of significant customers,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely
basis,



     

     
    •
     
    new product and technology introductions by competitors,



     

     
    •
     
    changes in the mix of products produced and sold,



     

     
    •
     
    market acceptance of our products and our customers,



     

     
    •
     
    our ability to continue to generate revenues by licensing and/or selling non-core
intellectual property, and



     

     
    •
     
    intellectual property disputes, including those concerning payments associated
with the licensing and/or sale of intellectual property.





The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could
materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. If our operating results
fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could materially and adversely affect
the price of our common stock.


Our stock price has been volatile and may fluctuate in the future.



The trading price of our common stock has and may continue to fluctuate significantly. Such
fluctuations may be influenced by many factors, including:


13




Table of Contents







     
    •
     
    the recent unprecedented volatility of the financial markets,



     

     
    •
     
    uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies,



     

     
    •
     
    our performance and prospects,



     

     
    •
     
    the performance and prospects of our major customers,



     

     
    •
     
    the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock,



     

     
    •
     
    investor perception of us and the industry in which we operate,



     

     
    •
     
    changes in earnings estimates or buy/sell recommendations by analysts, and



     

     
    •
     
    domestic and international political conditions.





Public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility. This
volatility has significantly and negatively affected the market
prices of securities of many technology companies, including the
market price of our common stock.
These broad market fluctuations may further materially and adversely affect the market price of our common
stock in future periods.


In addition, fluctuations in our stock price, volume of shares traded, and changes in our trading
multiples may make our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift
funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction. Our
Company has been, and in the future may be, the subject of commentary by financial news media. Such
commentary may contribute to volatility in our stock price. If our operating results do not meet
the expectations of securities analysts, the financial news media or investors, our stock price may decline, possibly
substantially over a short period of time.


The wireless semiconductor markets are characterized by significant competition which may cause
pricing pressures, decreased gross margins and loss of market share and may materially and
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.


The wireless communications semiconductor industry in general and the markets in which we compete
in particular are very competitive. We compete with U.S. and international semiconductor
manufacturers of all sizes in terms of resources and market share, including RF Micro Devices,
Anadigics and TriQuint Semiconductor. As we continue to expand in the linear products markets, we
will compete with companies in other industries, including Analog Devices, Hittite Microwave,
Linear Technology and Maxim Integrated Products.


We currently face significant competition in our markets and expect that intense price and product
competition will continue. This competition has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result
in, declining average selling prices for our products and increased challenges in maintaining or
increasing market share. Furthermore, additional competitors may enter our markets as a result of
growth opportunities in communications electronics, the trend toward global expansion by foreign
and domestic competitors and technological and public policy changes. We believe that the principal
competitive factors for semiconductor suppliers in our markets include, among others:






     
    •
     
    rapid time-to-market and product ramp,



     

     
    •
     
    timely new product innovation,



     

     
    •
     
    product quality, reliability and performance,



     

     
    •
     
    product price,



     

     
    •
     
    features available in products,



     

     
    •
     
    compliance with industry standards,





14




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    strategic relationships with customers,



     

     
    •
     
    access to and protection of intellectual property, and



     

     
    •
     
    maintaining access to raw materials, supplies and services at a competitive cost.





We might not be able to successfully address these factors. Many of our competitors enjoy the
benefit of:






     
    •
     
    long presence in key markets,









     
    •
     
    brand recognition,



     

     
    •
     
    high levels of customer satisfaction,



     

     
    •
     
    ownership or control of key technology or intellectual property, and



     

     
    •
     
    strong financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical or
other resources.





As a result, certain competitors may be able to adapt more quickly than we can to new or emerging
technologies and changes in customer requirements or may be able to devote greater resources to the
development, promotion and sale of their products than we can.


Current and potential competitors have established, or may in the future establish, financial or
strategic relationships among themselves or with customers, resellers or other third parties. These
relationships may affect customers’ purchasing decisions. Accordingly, it is possible that new
competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market
share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and
potential competitors. Increased competition could result in pricing pressures, decreased gross
margins and loss of market share and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial
condition and results of operations.


Our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and reduce costs in a timely manner.



The wireless communications semiconductor industry generally and, in particular, the markets into
which we sell our products are highly cyclical and characterized by constant and rapid
technological change, continuous product evolution, price erosion, evolving technical standards,
short product life cycles, increasing demand for higher levels of integration, increased
miniaturization, reduced power consumption and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. Our
operating results depend largely on our ability to continue to cost-effectively introduce new and
enhanced products on a timely basis. The successful development and commercialization of
semiconductor devices and modules is highly complex and depends on numerous factors, including:






     
    •
     
    the ability to anticipate customer and market requirements and changes in
technology and industry standards,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to obtain capacity sufficient to meet customer demand,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to define new products that meet customer and market requirements,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to complete development of new products and bring products to market on a
timely basis,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to differentiate our products from offerings of our competitors,



     

     
    •
     
    overall market acceptance of our products,



     

     
    •
     
    the length of time that a particular product is in demand, and



     

     
    •
     
    the ability to obtain adequate intellectual property protection for our new products.




15




Table of Contents











Our ability to manufacture current products, and to develop new products, depends, among other
factors, on the viability and flexibility of our own internal information technology systems, or IT
Systems.



We will be required to continually evaluate expenditures for planned product
development and to choose among alternative technologies based on our expectations of future market
growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to develop and introduce new or enhanced wireless
communications semiconductor products in a timely and cost-effective manner, that our products will
satisfy customer requirements or achieve market acceptance or that we will be able to anticipate
new industry standards and technological changes. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to
respond successfully to new product announcements and introductions by competitors or to changes in
the design or specifications of complementary products of third parties with which our products
interface. If we fail to rapidly and cost-effectively introduce new and enhanced products in
sufficient quantities that meet our customers requirements, our business and results of
operations would be materially and adversely harmed.


In addition, prices of many of our products decline, sometimes significantly, over time. We cannot
assure you that our products will not become obsolete earlier than planned or have life cycles long
enough to allow us to recoup the cost of our investment in designing such products. Accordingly,
we believe that to remain competitive, we must continue to reduce the cost of producing and
delivering existing products at the same time that we develop and introduce new or enhanced
products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to reduce the cost of our products
to remain competitive.


If OEMs and Original Design Manufacturers, or ODMs, of communications electronics products do not
design our products into their equipment, we will have difficulty selling those products. Moreover,
a “design win” from a customer does not guarantee future sales to that customer.


Our products are not sold directly to the end-user, but are components or subsystems of other
products. As a result, we rely on OEMs and ODMs of wireless communications electronics products to
select our products from among alternative offerings to be designed into their equipment. Without
these “design wins,” we would have difficulty selling our products. If a manufacturer designs
another supplier’s product into one of its product platforms, it is more difficult for us to
achieve future design wins with that platform because changing suppliers involves significant cost,
time, effort and risk on the part of that manufacturer. Also, achieving a design win with a
customer does not ensure that we will receive significant revenues from that customer. Even after a
design win, the customer is not obligated to purchase our products and can choose at any time to
reduce or cease use of our products, for example, if its own products are not commercially
successful, or for any other reason. We cannot assure you that we will continue to achieve design
wins or to convert design wins into actual sales, and any failure to do so could materially and
adversely affect our operating results.


Our manufacturing processes are extremely complex and specialized and disruptions could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


Our manufacturing operations are complex and subject to disruption, including for causes beyond our
control. The fabrication of integrated circuits is an extremely complex and precise process
consisting of hundreds of separate steps. It requires production in a highly controlled, clean
environment. Minor impurities, contamination of the clean room environment, errors in any step of
the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print circuits on a wafer, defects in
equipment or materials, human error, or a number of other factors can cause a substantial
percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous die on each wafer to malfunction. Because our
operating results are highly dependent upon our ability to produce integrated circuits at
acceptable manufacturing yields, these factors could have a material adverse affect on our
business. In addition, although we invest significant resources in the testing of our products, we
may discover from time to time defects in our products after they
have been shipped, and we may be required
to incur additional development and remediation costs, pursuant to warranty and indemnification
provisions in our customer contracts and purchase orders. The potential liabilities associated with
these, and similar, provisions in certain of our customer contracts are capped at significant
amounts, or are uncapped. These problems may divert our technical and other resources from other
product development efforts and could result in claims against us by our customers or others,
including liability for costs associated with product recalls, or other


16




Table of Contents





obligations under customer
contracts, which may adversely impact our operating results. If any of our products contain
defects, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation may be damaged,
which could make it more difficult for us to sell our products to existing and prospective
customers and could adversely affect our operating results.


Additionally, our operations may be affected by lengthy or recurring disruptions of operations at
any of our production facilities or those of our subcontractors. These disruptions may result from
electrical power outages, fire, earthquake, flooding, war, acts of terrorism, health advisories or
risks, or other natural or manmade disasters, as well as equipment maintenance, repairs and/or
upgrades such as the conversion to a 6” wafer manufacturing line currently in process at our
Newbury Park, California facility. Disruptions of our manufacturing operations could cause
significant delays in shipments until we are able to shift the products from an affected facility
or subcontractor to another facility or subcontractor. In the event of such delays, we cannot
assure you that the required alternative capacity, particularly wafer production capacity, would be
available on a timely basis or at all. Even if alternative wafer production or assembly and test
capacity is available, we may not be able to obtain it on favorable terms, which could result in
higher costs and/or a loss of customers. We may be unable to obtain sufficient manufacturing
capacity to meet demand, either at our own facilities or through external manufacturing or similar
arrangements with others.


Due to the highly specialized nature of the gallium arsenide integrated circuit manufacturing
process, in the event of a disruption at the Newbury Park, California or Woburn, Massachusetts
semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities for any reason, alternative gallium arsenide production
capacity would not be immediately available from third-party sources. These disruptions could have
a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.


We may not be able to maintain and improve manufacturing yields that contribute positively to our
gross margin and profitability.


Minor deviations or perturbations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial manufacturing
yield loss, and in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Manufacturing yields for new
products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume
manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. Our forward
product pricing includes this assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result,
material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on
our gross margin and profitability. The difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields
and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be
magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. Our
manufacturing operations will also face pressures arising from the compression of product life
cycles, which will require us to manufacture new products faster and for shorter periods while
maintaining acceptable manufacturing yields and quality without, in many cases, reaching the
longer-term, high-volume manufacturing conducive to higher manufacturing yields and declining
costs.


We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture, assembly and test of our products.



We rely upon independent wafer fabrication facilities, called foundries, to provide silicon-based
products and to supplement our gallium arsenide wafer manufacturing capacity. There are significant
risks associated with reliance on third-party foundries, including:






     
    •
     
    the lack of  wafer supply, potential wafer shortages and higher wafer prices,



     

     
    •
     
    limited control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields, production costs and quality
assurance, and



     

     
    •
     
    the inaccessibility of, or delays in obtaining access to, key process technologies.





Although we have long-term supply arrangements to obtain additional external manufacturing
capacity, the third-party foundries we use may allocate their limited capacity to the production
requirements of other customers. If we choose to use a new foundry, it will typically take an
extended period of time to complete the qualification process before we can begin shipping products
from the new foundry. The foundries may experience financial difficulties, be unable to deliver
products to us in a timely manner or suffer damage or destruction to their facilities, particularly


17




Table of Contents





since some of them are located in earthquake zones. If any disruption of manufacturing capacity
occurs, we may not have alternative manufacturing sources immediately available. We may therefore
experience difficulties or delays in securing an adequate supply of our products, which could
impair our ability to meet our customers’ needs and have a material adverse effect on our operating
results.


Although we own and operate a test and assembly facility, we still depend on subcontractors to
package, assemble and test certain of our products at cost-competitive rates. We do not have long-term agreements with any of
our assembly or test subcontractors and typically procure services from these suppliers on a per
order basis. If any of these subcontractors experiences capacity constraints or financial
difficulties, suffers any damage to its facilities, experiences power outages or any other
disruption of assembly or testing capacity, we may not be able to obtain alternative assembly and
testing services in a timely manner and/or at cost-competitive rates. Due to the amount of time that it usually takes us to qualify
assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in product shipments if we are
required to find alternative assemblers or testers for our components. Any problems that we may
encounter with the delivery, quality or cost of our products could damage our customer
relationships and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are continuing to
develop relationships with additional third-party subcontractors to assemble and test our products.
However, even if we use these new subcontractors, we will continue to be subject to all of the
risks described above.


We are dependent upon third parties for the supply of raw materials and components.



Our manufacturing operations depend on obtaining adequate supplies of raw materials and the
components used in our manufacturing processes at a competitive cost. Although we maintain
relationships with suppliers located around the world with the objective of ensuring that we have
adequate sources for the supply of raw materials and components for our manufacturing needs,
increases in demand from the semiconductor industry for such raw materials and components can
result in tighter supplies. We cannot assure you that our suppliers will be able to meet our
delivery schedules, that we will not lose a significant or sole supplier, that a supplier will be
able to meet performance and quality specifications or that we will be able to purchase such
supplies or material at a competitive cost. If a supplier were unable to meet our delivery
schedules, or if we lost a supplier or a supplier were unable to meet performance or quality
specifications, our ability to satisfy customer obligations would be materially and adversely
affected. In addition, we review our relationships with suppliers of raw materials and components
for our manufacturing needs on an ongoing basis. In connection with our ongoing review, we may
modify or terminate our relationship with one or more suppliers. We may also enter into other sole
supplier arrangements to meet certain of our raw material or component needs. While we do not
typically rely on a single source of supply for our raw materials, we are currently dependent on a
sole-source supplier for epitaxial wafers used in the gallium arsenide semiconductor manufacturing
processes at our manufacturing facilities. If we were to lose this sole source of supply, for any
reason, a material adverse effect on our business could result until an alternate source is
obtained. To the extent we enter into additional sole supplier arrangements for any of our raw
materials or components, the risks associated with our supply arrangements would be exacerbated.


Our reliance on a small number of customers for a large portion of our sales could have a material
adverse effect on the results of our operations.


Significant portions of our sales are concentrated among a limited number of customers. If we
lost one or more of these major customers, or if one or more major customers significantly
decreased its orders for our products, our business could be materially and adversely affected.
Sales to our three largest OEM customers in fiscal 2008, Sony Ericsson Mobile Communication AB
(SEMC), Samsung, and Asian Information Technology, Inc. (AIT), including sales to their
manufacturing subcontractors (in the case of SEMC and Samsung), represented approximately 40% of
our net revenues for fiscal 2008.


If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel to contribute to the design,
development, manufacture and sale of our products, we may not be able to effectively operate our
business.


As the source of our technological and product innovations, our key technical personnel represent a
significant asset. Our success depends on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate
qualified personnel, including executive officers and other key management and technical personnel.
The competition for management and technical personnel is intense in the semiconductor industry,
and therefore we cannot assure


18




Table of Contents





you that
we will be able to attract and retain qualified management
and other personnel necessary for the design, development, manufacture and sale of our products. We
may have particular difficulty attracting and retaining key personnel during periods of poor
operating performance and/or declines in the price of our common stock given, among other things, the use of equity-based compensation by us and
our competitors. The loss of the services of one or more of our key employees or our inability to
attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our
ability to operate our business.


Lengthy product development and sales cycles associated with many of our products may result in
significant expenditures before generating any revenues related to those products.


After our product has been developed, tested and manufactured, our customers may need three to six
months or longer to integrate, test and evaluate our product and an additional three to six months
or more to begin volume production of equipment that incorporates the product. This lengthy cycle
time increases the possibility that a customer may decide to cancel or change product plans, which
could reduce or eliminate our sales to that customer. As a result of this lengthy sales cycle, we
may incur significant research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative
expenses, before we generate the related revenues for these products. Furthermore, we may never
generate the anticipated revenues from a product after incurring such expenses if our customer
cancels or changes its product plans.


Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely
affect our business.


Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders and not under long-term supply
arrangements with our customers. Our customers may cancel orders before shipment. Additionally, we
sell a portion of our products through distributors, some of whom have rights to return unsold
products if the product is defective. We may purchase and manufacture inventory based on estimates
of customer demand for our products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be
compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both,
as our forecasts of demand will then be based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In
addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. The
cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or
overproduction due to a change in anticipated order volumes could result in us holding excess or
obsolete inventory, which could result in inventory write-downs and, in turn, could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition.


In addition, if a customer encounters financial difficulties of its own as a result of a change in
demand or for any other reason, the customer’s ability to make timely payments to us for
non-returnable products could be impaired.


We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, or demands
that we license third-party technology, which could result in significant expense and prevent us
from using our technology.


The semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual
property rights. From time to time, third parties have asserted and may in the future assert
patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are
important to our business and have demanded and may in the future demand that we license their
technology or refrain from using it.


Any litigation to determine the validity of claims that our products infringe or may infringe
intellectual property rights of another, including claims arising from our contractual
indemnification of our customers, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be costly and
divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Regardless of the
merits of any specific claim, we cannot assure you that we would prevail in litigation because of
the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If
litigation were to result in an adverse ruling, we could be required to:






     
    •
     
    pay substantial damages,



     

     
    •
     
    cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of infringing products or processes,



     

     
    •
     
    discontinue the use of infringing technology,




19




Table of Contents






     
    •
     
    expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology, and



     

     
    •
     
    license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be
available on commercially reasonable terms.





We cannot assure you that our operating results or financial condition will not be materially
adversely affected if we, or one of our customers, were required to do any one or more of the
foregoing items.


In addition, if another supplier to one of
our customers, or a customer of ours itself, were found
to be infringing upon the intellectual property rights of a third party, the supplier or customer
could be ordered to cease the manufacture, import, use, sale or offer for sale of its infringing
product(s) or process (es), either of which could result, indirectly, in a decrease in demand from
our customers for our products. If such a decrease in demand for our products were to occur, it
could have an adverse impact on our operating results.


Many of our products incorporate technology licensed or acquired from third parties. If licenses to
such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our business
could be adversely affected.


We sell products in markets that are characterized
by rapid technological changes, evolving
industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing
levels of integration. Our ability to keep pace with this market depends on our ability to obtain
technology from third parties on commercially reasonable terms to allow our products to remain
competitive. If licenses to such technology are not available on commercially reasonable terms and
conditions, and we cannot otherwise integrate such technology, our products or our customers’
products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. In such instances,
we could also incur substantial unanticipated costs or scheduling delays to develop substitute
technology to deliver competitive products.


If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, it may harm our ability to
compete.


We rely on patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws, as well
as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary
technologies, information, data, devices, algorithms and processes. In addition, we often
incorporate the intellectual property of our customers, suppliers or other third parties into our
designs, and we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of such third-party
intellectual property. In the future, it may be necessary to engage in litigation or like
activities to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to
determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This
could require us to expend significant resources and to divert the efforts and attention of our
management and technical personnel from our business operations. We cannot assure you that:






     
    •
     
    the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement, dilution or other
violation of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers,
suppliers or other third parties will be successful,



     

     
    •
     
    any existing or future patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other
intellectual property rights or ours will not be challenged, invalidated or
circumvented, or



     

     
    •
     
    any of the measures described above would provide meaningful protection.





Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use
our technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our
patents. If any of our intellectual property protection mechanisms fails to protect our technology,
it would make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products, potentially resulting in
loss of market share and price erosion. Even if we receive a patent, the patent claims may not be
broad enough to adequately protect our technology. Furthermore, even if we receive patent
protection in the United States, we may not seek, or may not be granted, patent protection in
foreign countries. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection
may be unavailable or limited for certain technologies and in certain foreign countries.


20




Table of Contents



We attempt to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information through
operational, technological and legal safeguards. Despite our efforts, parties, including former or
current employees, may attempt to copy, disclose or obtain access to our information without our
authorization. Furthermore, attempts by computer hackers to gain unauthorized access to our systems
or information could result in our proprietary information being compromised or interrupt our
operations. While we attempt to prevent such unauthorized access we may be unable to anticipate the
methods used, or be unable to prevent the release of our proprietary information.


We are subject to the risks of doing business internationally.



A substantial majority of our net revenues are derived from customers located outside the United
States, primarily in countries located in the Asia-Pacific region and Europe. In addition, we have
suppliers located outside the United States, and third-party packaging, assembly and test
facilities and foundries located in the Asia-Pacific region. Finally, we have our own packaging,
assembly and test facility in Mexicali, Mexico. Our international sales and operations are subject
to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. These include, but are not limited
to, risks regarding:






     
    •
     
    currency exchange rate fluctuations,



     

     
    •
     
    local economic and political conditions, including social, economic and political
instability,



     

     
    •
     
    disruptions of capital and trading markets,



     

     
    •
     
    inability to collect accounts receivable,



     

     
    •
     
    restrictive governmental actions (such as restrictions on transfer of funds and
trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties, increased import
or export controls and tariffs),









     
    •
     
    changes in, or non-compliance with, legal or regulatory import/export requirements,



     

     
    •
     
    natural disasters, acts of terrorism, widespread illness and war,



     

     
    •
     
    limitations on the repatriation of funds,



     

     
    •
     
    difficulty in obtaining distribution and support,



     

     
    •
     
    cultural differences in the conduct of business,









     
    •
     
    the laws and policies of the United States and other countries affecting trade,
foreign investment and loans, and import or export licensing requirements,



     

     
    •
     
    tax laws,



     

     
    •
     
    the possibility of being exposed to legal proceedings in a foreign jurisdiction, and



     

     
    •
     
    limitations on our ability under local laws to protect or enforce our
intellectual property rights in a particular foreign jurisdiction.





Additionally, we are subject to risks in certain global markets in which wireless operators provide
subsidies on handset sales to their customers. Increases in handset prices that negatively impact
handset sales can result from changes in regulatory policies or other factors, which could impact
the demand for our products. Limitations or changes in policy on phone subsidies in South Korea,
Japan, China and other countries may have additional negative impacts on our revenues.


21




Table of Contents



We face a risk that capital needed for our business will not be available when we need it.



To the extent that our existing cash and cash
equivalents and cash generated from operations are insufficient
to fund our future activities or repay debt when it becomes due, we may need to raise additional
funds through public or private equity or debt financing. If unfavorable capital market conditions
exist if and when we were to seek additional financing, we may not be able to raise sufficient
capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis (if at all). Failure to obtain capital when required by our business circumstances
would have a material adverse effect on us.


In addition, any strategic investments and acquisitions that we may make to help us grow our
business may require additional capital resources. We cannot assure you that the capital required
to fund these investments and acquisitions will be available in the future.


Our leverage and our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow.



On October 3, 2008, we had total indebtedness of
approximately $187.6 million, which represented
approximately 17.3% of our total capitalization. After the close of fiscal year 2008, we retired $40.5 million in
aggregate principal amount of our 1.25% and 1.50% convertible notes. Although our cash and
cash equivalents balance currently exceeds our total indebtedness, we have long term debt obligations that
mature in 2010 and 2012, and we may require additional financing prior to such dates in order to
allow us to sufficiently fund our research and development, capital expenditures, acquisitions, working
capital and other cash requirements, particularly if our
short-term revolving credit facility were not renewed.


Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including:






     
    •
     
    increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions,



     

     
    •
     
    limiting our ability to obtain additional financing,



     

     
    •
     
    requiring the dedication of a portion of any cash flow from operations to
service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other
purposes,



     

     
    •
     
    limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our
business and the industry in which we compete, and



     

     
    •
     
    placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors
and competitors that have better access to capital resources.





Despite our current debt levels, we believe we are able to incur
substantially more debt, which would increase
the risks described above.


Accounting
Rule Changes for Certain Convertible Debt Instruments Will Alter Trends Established in
Previous Periods


In May, 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(“FASB”) issued FASB Staff Position (“FSP”)
No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May be Settled in Cash upon
Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement). This FSP alters the accounting treatment for
convertible debt instruments that allow for either mandatory or optional cash settlements.
Specifically, it will significantly increase the non-cash interest expense associated with our
existing 1.25% and 1.50% convertible notes, and previously held 4.75% convertible notes including interest expense in
prior periods. The exact impact of this proposal to the Company’s financial statements is currently
being evaluated. The Company is not required to adopt FSP APB 14-1 until the first quarter of
fiscal 2010.


22




Table of Contents



Remaining competitive in the semiconductor industry requires transitioning to smaller geometry
process technologies and achieving higher levels of design integration.


In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to
increasingly smaller geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes
for our products, design new products to more stringent standards, and to redesign some existing
products. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties migrating to smaller geometry process
technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in sub-optimal manufacturing yields,
delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar
difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry
processes in the future. In some instances, we depend on our relationships with our foundries to
transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that our foundries will
be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our foundry
relationships. If our foundries or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to
efficiently implement this transition, our business, financial condition and results of operations
could be materially and adversely affected. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we
expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third
party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher
levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, or at all.


Increasingly stringent environmental laws, rules and regulations may require us to redesign our
existing products and processes, and could adversely affect our ability to cost-effectively produce
our products.


The electronics industry has been subject to increasing environmental regulations. A number of
domestic and foreign jurisdictions seek to restrict the use of various substances, a number of
which have been used in our products or processes. For example, the European Union Restriction of
Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RoHS) Directive now requires that
certain substances be removed from all electronics components. Removing such substances requires
the expenditure of additional research and development funds to seek alternative substances, as
well as increased testing by third parties to ensure the quality of our products and compliance
with the RoHS Directive. While we have implemented a compliance program to ensure our product
offering meets these regulations, there may be instances where alternative substances will not be
available or commercially feasible, or may only be available from a single source, or may be
significantly more expensive than their restricted counterparts. Additionally, if we were found to
be non-compliant with any such rule or regulation, we could be subject to fines, penalties and/or
restrictions imposed by government agencies that could adversely affect our operating results.


We may be liable for penalties under environmental laws, rules and regulations, which could
adversely impact our business.


We have used, and will continue to use, a variety of chemicals and compounds in manufacturing
operations and have been and will continue to be subject to a wide range of environmental
protection regulations in the United States and in foreign countries. We cannot assure you that
current or future regulation of the materials necessary for our products would not have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Environmental
regulations often require parties to fund remedial action for violations of such regulations
regardless of fault. Consequently, it is often difficult to estimate the future impact of
environmental matters, including potential liabilities. Furthermore, our customers increasingly
require warranties or indemnity relating to compliance with environmental regulations. We cannot
assure you that the amount of expense and capital expenditures that might be required to satisfy
environmental liabilities, to complete remedial actions and to continue to comply with applicable
environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations.


Our gallium arsenide semiconductors may cease to be competitive with silicon alternatives.



Among our product portfolio, we manufacture and sell gallium arsenide semiconductor devices and
components, principally power amplifiers and switches. The production of gallium arsenide
integrated circuits is more costly than the production of silicon circuits. The cost differential
is due to higher costs of raw materials for gallium arsenide and higher unit costs associated with
smaller sized wafers and lower production volumes. Therefore, to remain


23




Table of Contents





competitive, we must offer
gallium arsenide products that provide superior performance over their silicon-based counterparts.
If we do not continue to offer products that provide sufficiently superior performance to justify
the cost differential, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We expect
the costs of producing gallium arsenide devices will continue to exceed the costs of producing
their silicon counterparts. Silicon semiconductor technologies are widely used process technologies
for certain integrated circuits and these technologies continue to improve in performance. We
cannot assure you that we will continue to identify products and markets that require performance
attributes of gallium arsenide solutions.


To be successful we may need to effect investments, alliances and acquisitions, and to integrate
companies we acquire.


Although we have invested in the past, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources in
internal research and development activities, the complexity and rapidity of technological changes
and the significant expense of internal research and development make it impractical for us to
pursue development of all technological solutions on our own. On an ongoing basis, we review
investment, alliance and acquisition prospects that would complement our product offerings, augment
our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that
we will be able to identify and consummate suitable investment, alliance or acquisition
transactions in the future. Moreover, if we consummate such transactions, they could result in:






     
    •
     
    issuances of equity securities dilutive to our stockholders,



     

     
    •
     
    large, one-time write-offs,



     

     
    •
     
    the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities,



     

     
    •
     
    the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company,



     

     
    •
     
    amortization expenses related to intangible assets, and



     

     
    •
     
    the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns.





Moreover, integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult,
expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationship with employees and
customers and ultimately may not be successful. Additionally, in periods following an acquisition,
we will be required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment.
When such assets are found to be impaired, they will be written down to estimated fair value, with
a charge against earnings.


Certain provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for
someone to acquire control of us.


We have certain anti-takeover measures that may affect our common stock. Our certificate of
incorporation, our by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law contain several provisions that
would make more difficult an acquisition of control of us in a transaction not approved by our
Board of Directors. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws include provisions such as:






     
    •
     
    the division of our Board of Directors into three classes to be elected on a
staggered basis, one class each year,



     

     
    •
     
    the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock in one
or more series without further authorization of stockholders,



     

     
    •
     
    a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent,



     

     
    •
     
    elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders,




24




Table of Contents








     
    •
     
    a requirement that stockholders provide advance notice of any stockholder
nominations of directors or any proposal of new business to be considered at any
meeting of stockholders,



     

     
    •
     
    a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3 percent of our
shares be obtained to amend or repeal any provision of our by-laws or the provision of
our certificate of incorporation relating to amendments to our by-laws,



     

     
    •
     
    a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be
obtained to amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating
to the election and removal of directors, the classified board or the right to act by
written consent,



     

     
    •
     
    a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 80% of our shares be
obtained for business combinations unless approved by a majority of the members of the
Board of Directors and, in the event that the other party to the business combination
is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our shares, a majority of the members of Board
of Directors in office prior to the time such other party became the beneficial owner
of 5% or more of our shares,



     

     
    •
     
    a fair price provision, and



     

     
    •
     
    a requirement that the affirmative vote of at least 90% of our shares be
obtained to amend or repeal the fair price provision.





In addition to the provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Section 203 of the
Delaware General Corporation Law generally provides that a corporation shall not engage in any
business combination with any interested stockholder during the three-year period following the
time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless a majority of the directors
then in office approves either the business combination or the transaction that results in the
stockholder becoming an interested stockholder or specified stockholder approval requirements are
met.





ITEM 1B