ITEM 1A.
  
  
  RISK FACTORS
  
 


 

            The
following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the
Company's business, financial condition or operating results.  The Company may
be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the Company or
those which the Company deems immaterial that may also impact its business
operations.

 

The
Company's inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare
professionals could have a negative impact on the Company's future operating
results.

 

            The
Company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and
medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research
and development.  The Company continues to place emphasis on the
development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and
expand its existing product lines.  If the Company is unable to maintain
these good relationships, its ability to market and sell new and improved
products could decrease, and future operating results could be unfavorably
affected.

 

The Company's inability
to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on
the Company's future operating results.

 

            The talent and
drive of the Company's employees are key factors in the success of its
business.  The Company's sales, technical and other key personnel play an
integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing
products.  If the Company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a
talented, competitive work force, it may not be able to meet its strategic
business objectives.
 



Stricter pricing
guidelines for the Orthopaedic Implants industry could have a negative impact
on the Company's future operating results.
 



            Initiatives
sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to
limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and
competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Company does business. 
The Company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to
increased pricing pressure in the United States, Japan and certain other
markets.  Governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the
amount of approved reimbursements for the Company's Orthopaedic Implant
products.  Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage, or other
cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the Company's future
operating results.
 



The Company's operating
results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete
inventory reserves.
 



            The Company
maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the
potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current
carrying costs. The markets in which the Company operates are highly
competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an
ongoing basis.  Such marketplace changes may cause some of the Company's
products to become obsolete.  The Company makes estimates regarding the future
recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for
excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of
sterilization dates and expected future trends.  If actual product life cycles,
product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable
than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required,
which could unfavorably affect future operating results.

 

The Company's operating
results could be negatively impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research
and development spending.  

 

            The Company has
spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development
projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products.  The
Company believes these projects will result in the manufacturing of new
products and will create additional future sales.  However, factors including
regulatory 
- - 21 -
 delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the
introduction or marketing of new products.  Additionally, unanticipated issues
may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies, including
those for additional OP-1 applications and the FlexiCore and CerviCore spinal
implant products, that could delay or terminate a product's development prior
to regulatory approval.  The Company may experience an unfavorable impact on
its operating results if it is unable to capitalize on those efforts by
attaining the proper FDA approval or to successfully market these and other new
products, including the Sightline flexible endoscope products and the PlasmaSol
sterilization products.   



The Company's operating
results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims,
unfavorable court decisions, regulatory compliance or legal settlements.

 

            The Company is a
defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the
normal course of business, including product liability and other matters.  Such
matters are subject to many uncertainties, and outcomes are not predictable
with assurance.  To partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes
in such matters, the Company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject
to certain deductibles and loss limitations.  While the Company believes its
current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such
matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any
settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried. 
Likewise, the Company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of
whether it is found to be liable.  In addition, such product liability
settlements may negatively impact the Company's ability to obtain
cost-effective third-party insurance coverage in future periods.
 



            In 2007 the Company disclosed that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has made an informal inquiry of the Company
regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in
connection with the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries. Subsequently,
in 2008, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Justice,
Criminal Division, requesting certain documents for the period January 1, 2000
through the present in connection with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission inquiry.  In 2006 the Company announced that it received a subpoena
from the U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, requesting documents
for the period January 2001 through the present regarding possible violations
of federal criminal law, including possible violation of the antitrust laws,
relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices.  Stryker
is fully cooperating with the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission regarding these matters.
 



            In 2007 the
Company reached a resolution with the U.S. Attorney's office for the District
of New Jersey in connection with a previously announced investigation relating
to "any and all consulting contracts,
professional service agreements, or remuneration agreements between Stryker
Corporation and any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or
medical school graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee
joint replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by Stryker
Corporation."  The resolution is in the form of a non-prosecution
agreement for an 18-month period. During the term of the agreement, the
Company's Orthopaedics subsidiary is subject to oversight by a federal monitor,
as appointed by the U.S. Attorney, regarding compliance with certain standards
and procedures in connection with the retention and payment of orthopaedic
surgeon consultants related to reconstructive products and the provision of
certain benefits to such surgeons.
 



           
In 2007 the Company received two warning letters from the FDA regarding
compliance with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive
implant manufacturing facilities: one letter for its facility in Cork, Ireland and
another for its facility in Mahwah, New Jersey.  The Company
takes these matters very seriously and has been fully cooperating with the FDA
to address their observations.  

 

           As a result of
these investigations, the Company's future operating results could be
negatively impacted by settlements of these matters.
 



The Company's operating
results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other
developments in countries in which the Company does business.
 



            Future operating
results could be negatively impacted by unstable economic, political and social
conditions, including but not limited to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates, political instability, or
 
- 22 -

 
changes in the
interpretation or creation of laws and regulations in each of the countries where the Company
conducts business, including the United States.  Additionally, the Company
operates in multiple income tax jurisdictions and must determine the
appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on
current interpretations of complex income tax regulations.  Income tax audits
associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues may result in
significant income tax adjustments that could negatively impact the Company's
future operating results. 
 






<table class=MsoNormalTable border=0 cellspacing=0 cellpadding=0 width=746
 style='width:559.8pt;border-collapse:collapse'>
 
  
  ITEM 1B