ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.This report contains statements referring to us that are not historical facts and are considered "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which are intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Reform Act, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. Words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as "may," "could," "will," "should,"  "possible," "plan," "predict," "forecast," "potential," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "believe," "may impact," "on track," and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, an acquisition or our businesses. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. Those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements.  Some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include the risks discussed below.Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations.LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKSThe impact of United States healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain. In 2010 federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system was enacted into law. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve the quality and reduce the costs of healthcare over time. Its provisions become effective at various dates and there are many programs and requirements for which the details have not been determined.  We expect the law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. Among other things, the law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on Class I, II and III medical devices that applies to United States sales of a majority of our medical device products. Other provisions of this legislation, including Medicare provisions aimed at improving quality and decreasing costs, comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, and pilot programs to evaluate alternative payment methodologies, could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered. Further, we cannot predict what other healthcare programs and regulations will be ultimately implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation in the United States.   However, any change that lowers reimbursements for our products or reduces medical procedure volumes could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Cost containment measures in the United States and other countries resulting in pricing pressures could have a negative impact on our future operating results. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. Pricing pressure has also increased in our markets due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of healthcare expenses, and government laws and regulations 4 Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specifiedrelating to sales and promotion, reimbursement and pricing generally. Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost containment measures could unfavorably affect our future operating results.We may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices, many of which are intended to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely.  We are currently defendants in a number of product liability matters, including those relating to the voluntary recall in 2012 of our Rejuvenate and ABGII modular neck hip stems discussed in "Other Information-Legal and Regulatory Matters" in Item 7 of this report and Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. These matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. In addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable.  The Company is currently self-insured for product liability-related claims and expenses.  The ultimate cost to us with respect to product liability claims could be materially different than the amount of the current estimates and accruals and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products.  The medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation.  Regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of management and operating personnel from other business issues.  A successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category. Dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may impact offerings in our product portfolios. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. If we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, such a failure could allow others to sell products that compete with offerings in our product portfolio. Also, our issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues, and currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents.We are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. Substantially all of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other governmental authorities in the United States and internationally. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. We have ongoing responsibilities under FDA regulations with respect to our products and facilities and are  subject to periodic inspections by the FDA to determine compliance with the quality system and medical device reporting regulations and other requirements.  If we fail to fully comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions, including warning letters, product recalls, the suspension of product manufacturing, monetary fines and criminal prosecution. We are subject to federal, state and foreign healthcare regulations, including fraud and abuse laws, as well as anti-bribery laws, and could face substantial penalties if we fail to fully comply with such regulations and laws.  Our relationship with healthcare professionals, such as physicians, hospitals and those that may market our products, are subject to scrutiny under various state and federal laws often referred to collectively as healthcare fraud and abuse laws. In addition, the United States and foreign government regulators have increased the enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery laws. These laws are broad in scope and are subject to evolving interpretation, which could require us to incur substantial costs to monitor compliance or to alter our practices if we are found not to be in compliance. We also must comply with a variety of other laws which protect the privacy of individually identifiable healthcare information and impose extensive tracking and reporting related to all transfers of value provided to certain healthcare professionals.  Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs. MARKET RISKS Macroeconomic developments, such as the recent recessions in Europe and the debt crises in certain countries in the European Union, could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those geographies.  The continuing debt crises in certain European Union countries could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our European Union customers.  Financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could also include delays in collection and greater bad debt expense.Exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into United States dollars. Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. In addition, our sales are translated into United States dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening or weakening of the United States dollar results in favorable or unfavorable translation effects as the results of our foreign locations are translated into United States dollars.BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL RISKSWe may be unable to effectively develop and market products against the products of our competitors in a highly competitive industry.  Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by our competitors. Competitive factors include price, customer service, 5 Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specifiedtechnology, innovation, quality, reputation and reliability. Our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us or be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry.  Competition in research, involving the development and improvement of new and existing products, is particularly significant and results from time to time in product obsolescence. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. Such marketplace changes may cause some of our products to become obsolete. If actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, a higher level of inventory write downs may result.We may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals. We seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development.  We rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines.  If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease.We are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations. We develop, manufacture and distribute our products throughout the world. Our international operations are subject to a number of additional risks and potential costs, including changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs, unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, political and economic instability.  Our results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely impacted if we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks of international operations in an increasingly volatile environment. We may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions.  In addition to internally developed products, we rely upon investment in new technologies through acquisitions. Investments in medical technology are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. These risks include the activities required by us to integrate new businesses, which may result in the need to allocate more resources to integration and product development activities than originally anticipated, diversion of management's time, which could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel of the acquired company, and exposure to unexpected liabilities of the acquired company. In  addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so, which may result in unexpected impairment charges.We may record future goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. We perform our annual impairment test for goodwill in the fourth quarter of each year, or more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist. In evaluating the potential for impairment we make assumptions regarding revenue projections, growth rates, cash flows, tax rates, and discount rates. These assumptions are uncertain and by nature may vary from actual results. A significant reduction in the estimated fair values could result in impairment charges that could materially affect our results of operations.  Our results of operations could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate. We operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both in the United States and internationally. Accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each jurisdiction based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. Income tax authorities regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. Income tax audits associated with the allocation of income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments.  If changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, the related adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on our results of operations.Failure of a key information technology system, process or site could have a material adverse impact on our business. We rely extensively on information technology systems to conduct business. These systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, providing data security and other processes necessary to manage our business. If our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our operations.We may be unable to attract and retain key employees. Our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. If we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives.ITEM 1B