ITEM 1A.
  
  
  RISK FACTORS.
  
 


            The
following information contains specific risks that could potentially impact the
Company's business, financial condition or operating results.  The Company may
be subject to additional risks that are not currently known to the Company or
those which the Company deems immaterial that may also impact its business
operations. 

The
Company's inability to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare
professionals could have a negative impact on the Company's future operating
results. 

            The
Company maintains close working relationships with respected physicians and
medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research
and development.  The Company continues to place emphasis on the
development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and
expand its existing product lines.  If the Company is unable to maintain
these good relationships, its ability to market and sell new and improved
products could decrease, and future operating results could be unfavorably
affected. 

The Company's inability
to continue to hire and retain key employees could have a negative impact on
the Company's future operating results. 

            The talent and
drive of the Company's employees are key factors in the success of its
business.  The Company's sales, technical and other key personnel play an
integral role in the development, marketing and selling of new and existing
products.  If the Company is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a
talented, competitive work force, it may not be able to meet its strategic
business objectives.



 
Stricter pricing
guidelines for the Orthopaedic Implants industry could have a negative impact
on the Company's future operating results.



 
            Initiatives
sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to
limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and
competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where the Company does business. 
The Company could experience a negative impact on its operating results due to
increased pricing pressure in the United States, Japan and certain other
markets.  Governments, hospitals and other third party payers could reduce the
amount of approved reimbursements for the Company's Orthopaedic Implants
products.  Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage, or other
cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect the Company's future
operating results.
 
- 21 -



 
The Company's operating
results could be negatively impacted by changes in its excess and obsolete
inventory reserves.
 



            The Company
maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory resulting from the
potential inability to sell its products at prices in excess of current
carrying costs. The markets in which the Company operates are highly
competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an
ongoing basis.  Such marketplace changes may cause some of the Company's
products to become obsolete.  The Company makes estimates regarding the future
recoverability of the costs of these products and records a provision for
excess and obsolete inventories based on historical experience, expiration of
sterilization dates and expected future trends.  If actual product life cycles,
product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable
than projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required,
which could unfavorably affect future operating results. 

The Company's operating results could be negatively
impacted if it is unable to capitalize on research and development spending. 

            The Company has
spent a significant amount of time and resources on research and development
projects in order to develop and validate new and innovative products.  The
Company believes these projects will result in the commercialization of new
products and will create additional future sales.  However, factors including
regulatory delays, safety concerns or patent disputes could delay the
introduction or marketing of new products.  Additionally, unanticipated issues
may arise in connection with current and future clinical studies that could
delay or terminate a product's development prior to regulatory approval.  The
Company may experience an unfavorable impact on its operating results if it is
unable to capitalize on those efforts by attaining the proper FDA approval or to
successfully market new products.



The Company's operating
results could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of
income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates. 

            The Company operates in
multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States.  Accordingly, management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each
of these jurisdictions.  Income tax audits associated with the allocation of
this income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and
cost sharing and product royalty arrangements, may require an extended period
of time to resolve and may result in income tax adjustments if changes to the
income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax
rates.  Because income tax adjustments in certain jurisdictions can be
significant, the Company's future operating results could be negatively
impacted by settlements of these matters.   



The Company's operating
results could be negatively impacted by future product liability claims,
unfavorable court decisions, regulatory compliance or legal settlements. 

            The Company is a
defendant in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the
normal course of business, including product liability and other matters.  Such
matters are subject to many uncertainties, and outcomes are not predictable
with assurance.  To partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes
in such matters, the Company purchases third-party insurance coverage subject
to certain deductibles and loss limitations.  While the Company believes its
current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such
matters, its future operating results may be unfavorably impacted by any settlement
payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried.  Likewise, the
Company may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether it is found
to be liable.  In addition, such product liability matters may negatively
impact the Company's ability to obtain cost-effective third-party insurance
coverage in future periods.



 
            In
2008 the Company and certain current and former employees received subpoenas
from the U.S. Department of Justice Office, Criminal Division, of the United
States Attorney in Massachusetts requesting documents related to (i) false
Institutional Review Board approvals; (ii) the amount of sales of OP-1 under
one of the Company's Humanitarian Device Exemptions; and (iii) the off-label
promotion of Calstrux in combination with OP-1.  The Company is in the
process of responding to the U.S. Department of Justice regarding this matter.

 
- 22
- -




 
            In 2008
the Company received a warning letter from the FDA related to quality systems and compliance issues at its
OP-1 implant manufacturing facility in Hopkinton, Massachusetts.  In
2007 the Company received two warning letters from the FDA regarding compliance
with certain quality system specifications at its reconstructive implant
manufacturing facilities: one letter for its facility in Cork, Ireland and another for its facility in Mahwah, New Jersey.  The Company takes these matters very
seriously and has been fully cooperating with the FDA to address their
observations.



 
            In
2007 the Company announced that it reached a resolution with the U.S. Attorney's
office for the District of New Jersey in connection with a previously announced
investigation relating to "any and all consulting contracts, professional
service agreements, or remuneration agreements between Stryker Corporation and
any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or medical school
graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee joint
replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by Stryker
Corporation."  The resolution is in the form of a non-prosecution
agreement for an 18-month period ending on March 27, 2009.  During the
term of the agreement, the Company's Orthopaedics subsidiary is subject to
oversight by a federal monitor, as appointed by the U.S. Attorney, regarding
compliance with certain standards and procedures in connection with the
retention and payment of orthopaedic surgeon consultants related to
reconstructive products and the provision of certain benefits to such surgeons.
 Subsequent to entering into the non-prosecution agreement, the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General (HHS)
issued a civil subpoena to the Company in seeking to determine whether the
Company violated various laws by paying consulting fees and providing other
things of value to orthopedic surgeons and healthcare and educational
institutions as inducements to use Stryker's orthopedic medical devices in
procedures paid for in whole or in part by Medicare.  The Company produced
numerous documents and other materials to HHS in response to the subpoena and
had been working with HHS to attempt to narrow the scope of the requested
production.  In 2008 the U.S. Department of Justice and the HHS sought
judicial enforcement of the subpoena and a court agreed to enforce it in
January 2009.  At the same time, the U.S. District Court for the District
of New Jersey dismissed the Company's complaint which had asked the court to
quash the subpoena and sought other appropriate relief on the grounds that the
subpoena was overbroad and oppressive.



In 2007 the Company disclosed that
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made an informal inquiry of the
Company regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in
connection with the sale of medical devices in certain foreign countries.
Subsequently, in 2008, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Department
of Justice, Criminal Division, requesting certain documents for the period
since January 1, 2000 in connection with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission inquiry.  The Company is fully cooperating with the U.S. Department
of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regarding these
matters.



As a
result of these investigations, the Company's future operating results could be
negatively impacted by the resolution of these matters.



The Company's operating
results could be negatively impacted by economic, political or other
developments in countries in which the Company does business.



            The
Company distributes its products throughout the world.  As a result, the
Company's future operating results could be negatively impacted by unstable
economic, political and social conditions, including but not limited to
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, political instability, or
changes in the interpretation or creation of laws and regulations in each of
the countries where the Company conducts business, including the United States.  


 





<table class=MsoNormalTable border=0 cellspacing=0 cellpadding=0 width=746
 style='width:559.8pt;border-collapse:collapse'>
 
  
  ITEM 1B