ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.This report contains statements referring to us that are not historical facts and are considered “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which are intended to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Reform Act, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. Words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as “may,” “could,” “will,” “should,” “possible,” “plan,” “predict,” “forecast,” “potential,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “believe,” “may impact,” “on track,” and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or 3 Dollar amounts in millions except per share amounts or as otherwise specified.circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. Those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements.  Some important factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations in any forward-looking statements include those risks discussed below.Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations,We may be unable to effectively develop and market products against those of our competitors in a highly competitive industry. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical by technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors. Competitive factors include price, customer service, technology, innovation, quality, reputation and reliability. Our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources than us or may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. Given these factors, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue our level of success in the industry.  Competition in research, involving development and the improvement of new and existing products, is particularly significant and results from time to time in product obsolescence. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and new products and surgical procedures are introduced on an ongoing basis. Such marketplace changes may cause some of our products to become obsolete. If actual product life cycles, product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favorable than projected by management, a higher level of inventory write-downs may result.Dependence on patent and other proprietary rights and failing to protect such rights or to be successful in litigation related to such rights may result in our payment of significant monetary damages or impact offerings in our product portfolios. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. If we fail to obtain or maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or may lose access to technologies critical to our products. Also, our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents, and issued patents are subject to claims concerning priority, scope and other issues.Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products.  The medical device industry is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we are the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation.  Regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of our management and operating personnel from other business issues.  A successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to the manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. Substantially all of our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the United States. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals to market a medical device can be costly and time consuming and approvals might not be granted for future products on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we may be subject to a range of sanctions including warning letters, monetary fines, product recalls and the suspension of product manufacturing, and criminal prosecution. Healthcare changes in the United States and other countries resulting in pricing pressures could have a negative impact on our future operating results. Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. Pricing pressure has also increased in our markets due to continued consolidation among health care providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of health care expenses, and government laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and pricing generally. Reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could unfavorably affect our future operating results.The impact of United States healthcare reform legislation on us remains uncertain. In 2010 federal legislation to reform the United States healthcare system was enacted into law. The legislation is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. We expect the new law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. However, it is unclear how the new law will impact patient access to new technologies or reimbursement rates under the Medicare program. In addition, the new law imposes a 2.3 percent excise tax on medical devices scheduled to be implemented in 2013 that will apply to United States sales of a majority of our medical device products. Many of the details of the new law will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Labor and Department of the Treasury. Accordingly, while it is too early to understand and predict the ultimate impact of the new law on our business, the 4  legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations.We may be adversely affected by product liability claims, unfavorable court decisions or legal settlements. We are defendants in various proceedings, legal actions and claims arising in the normal course of business, including product liability and other matters. These matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable. In addition, we may incur significant legal expenses regardless of whether we are found to be liable.  To partially mitigate losses arising from unfavorable outcomes in such matters, we purchase third-party insurance coverage subject to certain retentions, deductibles and loss limitations. While we believe our current insurance coverage is adequate to mitigate losses arising from such matters, we may be adversely impacted by any settlement payments or losses beyond the amounts of insurance carried or for which coverage is otherwise not available. In addition, even if covered by insurance, such losses may negatively impact our ability to obtain third-party insurance coverage in future periods on a cost-effective basis or at all.We may be unable to maintain adequate working relationships with healthcare professionals. We seek to maintain close working relationships with respected physicians and medical personnel in hospitals and universities who assist in product research and development.  We rely on these professionals to assist us in the development of proprietary products and product improvements to complement and expand our existing product lines.  If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our ability to develop, market and sell new and improved products could decrease and future operating results could be unfavorably affected.We are subject to additional risks associated with our extensive international operations. We develop, manufacture and distribute our products throughout the world. Our international operations are, and will continue to be, subject to a number of additional risks and potential costs, including changes in foreign medical reimbursement policies and programs, unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements, differing local product preferences and product requirements, diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States, trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements, extraterritorial effects of United States laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, and political and economic instability. Exposure to exchange rate fluctuations on cross border transactions and translation of local currency results into United States dollars could have a significant impact on the reported results of our operations, which are presented in United States dollars. Cross border transactions, both with external parties and intercompany relationships, result in increased exposure to foreign exchange effects. Accordingly, significant changes in currency exchange rates could negatively affect our results of operations. In addition, our sales are translated into United States dollars for reporting purposes. The strengthening or weakening of the United States dollar could result in favorable or unfavorable translation effects as the results of foreign locations are translated into United States dollars.Our operating results could be negatively impacted by future changes in the allocation of income to each of the income tax jurisdictions in which we operate. We operate in multiple income tax jurisdictions both inside and outside the United States. Accordingly, our management must determine the appropriate allocation of income to each of these jurisdictions based on current interpretations of complex income tax regulations. Income tax authorities in these jurisdictions regularly perform audits of our income tax filings. Income tax audits associated with the allocation of this income and other complex issues, including inventory transfer pricing and cost sharing, product royalty and foreign branch arrangements, may require an extended period of time to resolve and may result in significant income tax adjustments.  If changes to the income allocation are required between jurisdictions with different income tax rates, such adjustments could have a material unfavorable impact on our income tax expense and net earnings.We may be unable to capitalize on previous or future acquisitions. In addition to internally developed products, we rely upon investment in new technologies through acquisitions. Investments in medical technology are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition will be successful or will not have a material unfavorable impact on us. These risks include the activities required by us to integrate new businesses, which may result in the need to allocate more resources to integration and product development activities than originally anticipated, diversion of management's time, which could adversely affect management's ability to focus on other projects, the inability to realize the expected benefits, savings or synergies from the acquisition, the loss of key personnel of the acquired company, and exposure to unexpected liabilities of the acquired company. In addition, we cannot be certain that the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so, which may result in unexpected impairment charges.Failure of a key information technology system, process or site could have a material adverse impact on our business. We rely extensively on information technology systems to conduct business. These systems include, but are not limited to, ordering and managing materials from suppliers, converting materials to finished products, shipping products to customers, processing transactions, summarizing and reporting results of operations, complying with regulatory, legal or tax requirements, providing data security and other processes necessary to manage our business. If our systems are damaged or cease to function properly due to any number of causes, ranging from catastrophic events to power outages to security breaches, and our business continuity plans do not effectively compensate on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage operations, which may adversely impact our business, cash flows, financial conditions or results of operations.We may be unable to attract and retain key employees. Our sales, technical and other key personnel play an integral role in the 5  development, marketing and selling of new and existing products. If we are unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive work force, we may not be able to meet our strategic business objectives.Macroeconomic developments, such as the recent recessions in Europe and the debt crisis in certain countries in the European Union, could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those geographies.  The continuing debt crisis in certain European countries could cause the value of the euro to deteriorate, reducing the purchasing power of our European customers.  Financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers, including distributors, could result in product delays and inventory issues; risks to accounts receivable could also include delays in collection and greater bad debt expense.ITEM 1B