Item 1A, Risk Factors. We encourage you to read that
    section carefully.




    
    3



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    Overview


 


    Symantec is a global provider of security, storage, and systems
    management solutions that help businesses and consumers secure
    and manage their information. We conduct our business in three
    geographic regions: Americas, which is comprised of the United
    States, Canada, and Latin America; Europe, the Middle East and
    Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia Pacific Japan
    (“APJ”).


 


    Our
    go-to-market
    network includes direct, inside, and channel sales resources
    that support our ecosystem of more than 40,000 partners
    worldwide. We also maintain various distribution and services
    relationships with original equipment manufacturers
    (“OEMs”), Internet service providers
    (“ISPs”), and retail and online stores. We provide
    customers with software and services that protect, manage, and
    control information risks related to security, backup and
    recovery, storage, compliance, and systems management.


 


    Founded in 1982, Symantec has operations in more than 40
    countries and our principal executive offices are located at 350
    Ellis Street, Mountain View, California, 94043. Our telephone
    number at that location is
    (650) 527-8000.
    Our home page on the Internet is www.symantec.com. Other
    than the information expressly set forth in this annual report,
    the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not
    part of this annual report.


 



    Strategy


 


    Symantec’s strategy is to provide software and services to
    secure and manage information regardless of device, platform, or
    where it resides. We help individuals, small businesses, and
    global organizations ensure that their information, technology
    infrastructures, and related processes are protected, managed
    easily, and controlled automatically. In addition to providing
    customers with traditional software solutions, we continue to
    expand our Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) based
    solutions and appliance based solutions, giving customers the
    choice for how they secure and manage information.


 


    We operate primarily in three diversified markets within the
    software sector: security, storage, and systems management. We
    believe these markets are converging as customers increasingly
    require our help mitigating their risk profiles and managing
    their storage needs in order to secure and manage their most
    valuable asset — information. We have taken a
    proactive and policy-driven approach to protecting and managing
    information as the tools and processes from these formerly
    discrete domains become more integrated.


 


    The security market includes mission-critical products that
    protect consumers and enterprises from threats to electronic
    information, endpoint devices, and computer networks. Over the
    past year, we have seen a continued rise in the volume of
    security threats. Threats are continuing to grow more targeted
    with a focus on stealing confidential information for financial
    gain. Attackers are expanding their tactics to include targeting
    users with social-engineering attacks, such as phishing websites
    that steal financial information, passwords, and other personal
    data. The Internet has become the primary conduit for attack
    activity with hackers increasingly funneling threats through
    legitimate websites, placing a much larger percentage of the
    population at risk than in the past. Data losses are not
    realized solely from external attacks but are increasingly
    administered by malicious or well-meaning insiders. Security
    continues to be a top priority for enterprises as information
    security is increasingly relevant to corporate competitiveness,
    regulatory compliance, cloud computing, and the proliferation of
    mobile devices.


 


    The storage software market includes products that manage,
    archive, backup, and recover business-critical data. Key drivers
    of demand in this market include the growth of information that
    organizations must manage, the need for data to be protected and
    accessible at all times, the transition from tape to disk-based
    backup, and the adoption of data deduplication technology. Other
    factors driving demand in this market include the pressure on
    companies to lower storage and server management costs without
    compromising performance and the need for a growing number of
    critical applications to be continuously available.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    The systems management market includes products that control the
    IT environment by streamlining efforts associated with
    deploying, managing, patching, and remediating enterprise client
    and server assets. The drivers for demand in this market include
    customers’ desire to automate management and security
    remediation tasks, to ensure business productivity, and to
    reduce costs and complexity.


 



    Business
    Developments and Highlights


 


    During fiscal 2010, we took the following actions in support of
    our business:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We strengthened our leadership in security. We introduced our
    new reputation-based malware detection security technology in
    our 2010 Consumer products. This technology leverages data from
    our extensive Global Intelligence Network to derive safety
    ratings for files on the Internet, and allows us to establish
    the reputation of a program based on a number of different
    factors (including its origin, age, and prevalence). We also
    launched security products and suites designed specifically for
    the small and medium sized business (“SMB”) and
    enterprise markets. These products are easy to use and install,
    and provide easy to use enterprise-level protection that
    optimizes performance and offers simplified management
    capabilities and pre-configured settings.




 



     
        • 

    
    We focused on the migration to next-generation information
    management. We integrated our backup, archiving and
    deduplication technologies and expanded our multi-platform
    support for physical and virtual environments. We released
    updated backup products that include expanded deduplication
    capabilities (at the client, media server, and via third party
    appliances), which products will allow customers to reduce the
    amount of data they store and the volume of data they transmit
    on their networks. We enhanced our products’ support for
    VMware and Microsoft Hyper-V virtualization technologies in
    order to allow customers to reduce management complexity and
    operational costs in their virtual environments. We introduced
    our new Data Insight technology to help customers identify their
    most critical information and give users access to data based on
    information intelligence and ownership.




 



     
        • 

    
    We expanded our cloud based offerings. We extended the partner
    distribution network associated with our Symantec Hosted
    Services business, primarily in SaaS messaging and web security.
    We launched a new hosted medical image archiving and sharing
    solution for healthcare providers that is designed to help them
    lower image storage costs and provide secure, web-based image
    sharing. In addition, we developed a scalable file server
    solution that combines our file system and clustering
    technologies, and integrates our security and backup software in
    order to deliver an optimized infrastructure for public or
    private storage clouds. We also expanded distribution of our
    consumer online backup solution through various channel partners.




 



     
        • 

    
    We completed two acquisitions during fiscal 2010. We expanded
    our SaaS security leadership by acquiring SoftScan, a
    privately-held SaaS security company in the Nordic region. We
    also acquired privately-held Gideon Technologies, Inc., a
    company with a leading Security Content Automation Protocol
    (“SCAP”) validated configuration and vulnerability
    assessment solution to enhance our ability to serve the needs of
    public sector customers.




 



     
        • 

    
    We reduced our cost structure in order to improve operational
    efficiencies across our business. Some of the actions included:
    carefully managing our headcount costs; outsourcing certain back
    office functions; consolidating facilities; relocating certain
    research and development functions to lower cost locations; and
    reducing travel and entertainment expenses and other
    discretionary expenses. Offsetting these cost reductions were
    investments in our new Symantec-developed and operated consumer
    eCommerce platform, increased investments in certain consumer
    OEM distribution agreements and acquisition related expenses.




 



     
        • 

    
    We launched a global eCommerce platform which allows us to host
    and manage consumer online stores. This is a strategic move,
    consistent with our ongoing focus on eCommerce and SaaS, in
    support of our consumer business. The benefits of managing an
    in-house eCommerce capability include building a closer
    relationship with our customers and enabling greater speed and
    agility to take advantage of market trends.




 



     
        • 

    
    We repurchased 34 million shares of our common stock for an
    aggregate amount of $553 million.







    
    5



Table of Contents




 



    Operating
    Segments and Products


 


    Our operating segments are significant strategic business units
    that offer different products and services, distinguished by
    customer needs. During fiscal 2010, we had five operating
    segments: Consumer, Security and Compliance, Storage and Server
    Management, Services, and Other.


 



    Consumer


 


    Our Consumer segment provides Internet security and protection
    solutions, suites and services to individual users and home
    offices through a dual-brand strategy with
    Nortontm

    and PC
    Toolstm.

    Our Norton brand offers premium, full-featured security suites
    as well as related services such as online backup, family
    safety, and PC
    tune-up
    across multiple platforms. PC Tools products are designed
    specifically for the value-minded consumer which allows Symantec
    to extend its reach into emerging and price-sensitive market
    segments. Products include: Norton
    360tm,

    Norton Internet
    Securitytm,

    Norton
    AntiVirustm,

    Norton Online
    Backuptm,

    PC Tools Spyware
    Doctortm,

    and PC Tools Registry
    Mechanictm.



 


    Our consumer business is driven by increasingly complex threats,
    the proliferation of mobile devices, the need for identity
    protection, and the rapid increase of digital consumer data,
    such as photos, music, and video. Our award-winning Norton 2010
    products include our innovative reputation-based security, a
    technology that provides real-time threat detection. Our online
    backup offering serves 12 million customers and hosts over
    56 petabytes of consumers’ data.


 


    We continue to acquire customers through a diversified channel
    strategy. In fiscal year 2010, Symantec introduced its own
    eCommerce platform to enhance customer’s
    end-to-end
    experience and capitalize on emerging market trends. We retain
    and leverage our strong existing customer base through
    auto-renewal subscriptions, migrating customers from point
    products to multi-product suites, and cross-selling additional
    products or services.


 



    Security
    and Compliance


 


    Our Security and Compliance segment helps our customers
    standardize, automate, and reduce the costs of
    day-to-day
    security activities in order to secure and manage their
    information. We have focused on offering security suite
    solutions that tie together multiple layers of protection and
    simplified management. Our primary solutions in this segment
    address the following areas:


 



    Enterprise
    Security


 


    Enterprise Security customer demand is driven by the evolving
    threat environment, the adoption of a content-aware approach to
    information protection, and the need to implement and ensure
    regulatory compliance. Our Symantec Protection Suite creates a
    protected endpoint, messaging, and Web environment that is
    secure against today’s complex malware, data loss and spam
    threats, and recovers endpoint data in the event of failure. Our
    Symantec Data Loss Prevention Suite helps companies understand
    where important information resides and helps ensure the
    appropriate access and movement of information into and out of
    the company. Our Symantec Control Compliance Suite allows
    businesses to prioritize risks, define and assess global IT
    policies, and remediate identified deficiencies.


 



    Systems
    Management


 


    Demand for Systems Management is driven by the need for
    automated asset management, patch management, and remediation
    solutions that offer better visibility into IT assets and
    simplify
    day-to-day
    operational management. Our solutions help companies realize
    value from their existing IT investments. Our Altiris IT
    Management Suite provides client, server and asset management
    with full service desk and automation capabilities that reduce
    IT costs and enhance IT effectiveness.


 



    SaaS


 


    Symantec Hosted Services, our SaaS offerings, enable customers
    to increase their messaging and web protection by blocking
    email, web and IM threats before they reach the network. Our
    SaaS security solutions





    
    6



Table of Contents





    simplify global management through use of a central portal. Our
    SaaS offerings provide our customers the flexibility to manage
    their business using hosted services or through a mix of onsite
    and hosted solutions. Products include: MessageLabs Hosted
    Email, Web and Instant Messaging Security.


 



    Storage
    and Server Management


 


    Our Storage and Server Management segment focuses on providing
    enterprise customers with storage management, high availability,
    and backup and archiving solutions across heterogeneous storage
    and server platforms. These solutions enable companies to
    standardize on a single layer of infrastructure software that
    works on every major distributed operating system and supports
    every major storage device, database, and application in both
    physical and virtual environments. Our primary storage and
    server management solutions address the following areas:


 



    Information
    Management


 


    Our Information Management business, which includes backup and
    archiving, is driven by the rapid growth of information, data
    duplication, virtual environments, management inefficiencies,
    and legal
    e-discovery
    needs. Symantec helps organizations protect themselves by
    bringing together archiving, deduplication, and backup
    functionality into a fully integrated solution. Symantec helps
    customers back up information and deduplicate closer to
    information sources in order to reduce storage consumption as
    well as archive and enable a compliant and litigation-ready
    information infrastructure. Products include:
    NetBackuptm,

    NetBackup
    PureDisktm,

    Backup
    Exectm

    and Enterprise
    Vaulttm.



 



    Storage
    Management and High Availability


 


    Our Storage Management and High Availability business is driven
    by our customers’ need to reduce overall storage costs
    through improved utilization of existing systems,
    virtualization, and cloud infrastructure offerings. The decline
    in server sales put pressure on this business, particularly with
    respect to new license sales on the Solaris platform. Our
    products help customers simplify their data centers by
    standardizing storage management across their environment for
    more efficient use of their existing storage investment. In
    addition, these products help customers build scalable,
    high-performance file-based storage systems for their
    enterprise, including private and public clouds. They also
    enable enterprises to manage large storage environments and
    ensure the availability of critical applications. Products
    include: Veritas Storage
    Foundationtm,

    Veritas Cluster
    Servertm,

    and Symantec
    FileStoretm.



 



    Services


 


    Symantec Global Services help customers address information
    security, availability, storage, and compliance challenges at
    the endpoint and in complex, multi-vendor data center
    environments. Our Services segment delivers consulting,
    education, business critical, and managed services that help our
    customers maximize the value of their investment in our products
    and solutions.


 



    Consulting,
    Education and Business Critical Services


 


    Symantec Consulting Services provide advisory, product
    enablement, and residency services to enable customers to
    assess, design, transform, and operate their infrastructure,
    leveraging Symantec products and solutions. Education Services
    provide a full range of programs, including technical training
    and security awareness training, to help customers optimize
    their Symantec solutions. Business Critical Services, our
    highest level of service, provide personalized, proactive
    support from technical experts for enterprises that require
    secure, uninterrupted access to their data and applications.


 



    Managed
    Services


 


    Symantec Managed Services enable customers to place
    resource-intensive IT operations under the management of
    experienced Symantec specialists in order to optimize existing
    resources and focus on strategic IT projects. This helps
    customers by reducing IT complexity, managing IT risk, and
    lowering the cost of operations. These





    
    7



Table of Contents





    services include: Managed Security Services, Managed Endpoint
    Protection Services and Managed Backup Services.


 



    Other


 


    The Other segment includes sunset products and general
    administrative, unallocated costs and is not considered an
    active business component of the company.


 



    Financial
    Information by Segment and Geographic Region


 


    For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by
    geographical area, and long-lived assets by geographical area,
    see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the
    amount and percentage of our revenue contributed in each of our
    segments and our financial information, including information
    about geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7,
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations and Note 11 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report. For information regarding risks associated with our
    international operations, see Item 1A, Risk Factors.


 



    Sales and
    Go-To-Market
    Strategy


 



    Consumer


 


    We sell our consumer products and services to individuals and
    home offices globally through a network of distribution partners
    and eCommerce channels. Our products are available to customers
    through retailers, distributors, direct marketers,
    Internet-based resellers, system builders, and ISPs. We have
    partnerships with nine of the top 10 OEMs globally to distribute
    our securities suites and with six of the top 10 OEMs globally
    to distribute our online backup product. We broadened our
    presence in retail stores, with our products now carried in more
    than 30,000 locations worldwide.


 


    Sales in the Consumer business through our electronic
    distribution channel, which includes sales derived from OEMs,
    subscriptions, upgrades, online sales, and renewals, represented
    approximately 80 percent of revenue in the Consumer segment
    in fiscal 2010. Products are also available through our new
    global in-house eCommerce stores, which improves our ability to
    identify and capitalize on emerging customer needs and market
    trends as well as enhance the
    end-to-end
    customer experience.


 



    Enterprise


 


    We sell and market our products and related services to
    enterprise customers through our direct sales force of more than
    3,500 sales representatives and through a variety of indirect
    sales channels, which include value-added resellers, large
    account resellers, and system integrators. We also sell our
    products in more than 40 countries through authorized
    distributors and OEMs who incorporate our technologies into
    their products, bundle our products with their offerings, or
    serve as authorized resellers of our products. Symantec has more
    than 40,000 distribution partners in its partner program
    worldwide. Our sales efforts are primarily targeted to senior
    executives and IT department personnel responsible for managing
    a company’s IT initiatives.


 



    Marketing
    and Advertising


 


    Our marketing expenditures relate primarily to advertising and
    promotion, which includes demand generation and brand
    recognition of our consumer and enterprise products. Our
    advertising and promotion efforts include, but are not limited
    to, electronic and print advertising, trade shows, collateral
    production, and all forms of direct marketing. We also invest in
    cooperative marketing campaigns with distributors, resellers,
    retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.


 


    We invest in various retention marketing and customer loyalty
    programs to help drive renewals and encourage customer advocacy
    and referrals. We also provide focused vertical marketing
    programs in targeted industries and countries.




    
    8



Table of Contents





    We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most
    countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and
    promotional rebates to distributors and end users. Distributors
    and resellers earn volume incentive rebates primarily based upon
    product sales to end users. We also offer rebates to individual
    users who purchase products through various resale channels.
    Both volume incentive rebates and end-user rebates are accrued
    as an offset to revenue.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Symantec embraces a global research and development
    (“R&D”) strategy to drive organic innovation
    across the company. Engineers throughout the company pursue
    advanced projects and work with our engineering centers,
    research labs and global services teams to translate R&D
    into next-generation technologies and integrate our unique set
    of technology assets across the portfolio. Symantec focuses on
    short, medium, and long-term applied research, develops new
    products in emerging areas, participates in government-funded
    research projects, and partners with universities to conduct
    research to support Symantec’s strategy. Symantec holds
    more than 900 patents.


 


    Symantec’s Security Technology and Response organization is
    a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and
    researchers that provides the underlying functionality, content,
    and support for all Symantec enterprise, SMB and consumer
    security products. Symantec’s security experts monitor
    malicious code reports collected through the Global Intelligence
    Network to provide insight into emerging attacks, malicious code
    activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this
    vast intelligence to develop new technologies and approaches,
    such as Symantec’s reputation-based security technology, to
    protect customer’s information.


 


    Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process
    research and development associated with acquisitions, were
    $857 million, $870 million and $895 million in
    fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, representing
    approximately 14%, 14% and 15% of revenue in the respective
    periods. We believe that technical leadership is essential to
    our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial
    resources to research and development.


 



    Support


 


    Symantec has centralized support facilities throughout the world
    that provide rapid,
    around-the-clock
    response, and are staffed by technical product experts
    knowledgeable in the operating environments in which our
    products are deployed. Our technical support experts assist
    customers with product implementation and usage, issue
    resolution and countermeasures, and threat detection.


 


    Symantec provides customers various levels of enterprise support
    offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers annual
    maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and
    technical support. Our standard technical support includes:
    unlimited hotline service delivered by telephone, fax, email,
    and over the Internet; immediate patches for severe problems;
    periodic software updates; and access to our technical knowledge
    base and frequently asked questions.


 


    Our consumer product support program provides self-help online
    services, phone, chat, email support, and fee-based premium
    support and diagnostic services to consumers worldwide.
    Customers that subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic
    downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug
    fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products.


 



    Customers


 


    In fiscal 2010 and 2008, one distributor, Ingram Micro accounted
    for 10% of our total net revenue in both periods. In fiscal
    2009, Ingram Micro did not account for 10% of total net revenue.
    Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of
    several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with
    its subsidiaries, each of which cover different countries or
    regions. Each of these agreements is separately negotiated and
    is independent of any other contract (such as a master
    distribution agreement), and these agreements are not based on
    the same form of contract. In fiscal 2009 and 2008, one
    reseller, Digital River accounted for 10% and 11% of our total
    net revenues, respectively. In fiscal 2010, we launched a new,
    internally-developed eCommerce platform which will reduce our
    reliance on Digital River.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    Acquisitions


 


    Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and
    functionality of our existing products and extend our product
    leadership in core markets. We consider time to market,
    synergies with existing products, and potential market share
    gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of
    technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquire
    and/or
    dispose of other technologies, products and companies in the
    future.


 


    During fiscal 2010, we completed the following acquisitions:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Company Name



 



    Company Description



 



    Date Acquired




 






    Gideon Technologies, Inc. 



 


    A provider of standards-based information security compliance
    solutions


 


    January 22, 2010





    SoftScan



 


    A provider of hosted security solutions for e-mail and web in
    the Nordic region.


 


    October 31, 2009








 


    For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 4 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report.


 



    Competition


 


    Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject
    to rapid changes in technology. We are focused on integrating
    across the product portfolio and include next-generation
    technology capabilities into our solution set in order to
    differentiate ourselves from the competition. We believe that
    the principal competitive factors necessary to be successful in
    our industry include time to market, price, reputation,
    financial stability, breadth of product offerings, customer
    support, brand recognition, and effective sales and marketing
    efforts.


 


    In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors,
    we face indirect or potential competition from retailers,
    application providers, operating system providers, network
    equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs, who may provide various
    solutions and functions in their current and future products. We
    also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for
    the attention of customers at the retail level and in corporate
    accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies,
    operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers and
    other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and
    to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete
    with other software companies in our effort to place our
    products on the computer equipment sold to consumers and
    enterprises by OEMs.


 


    The competitive environments in which each segment operates are
    described below.


 



    Consumer


 


    Some of the channels in which our consumer products are offered
    are highly competitive. Our competitors are intensely focused on
    customer acquisition, which has led such competitors to offer
    their technology for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or
    enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary competitors in
    the Consumer segment are McAfee, Inc. (“McAfee”), and
    Trend Micro Inc. (“Trend Micro”). There are also
    several smaller regional security companies and freeware
    providers that we compete against primarily in the EMEA and APJ
    regions. For our consumer backup offerings, our primary
    competitors are Mozy, Inc., owned by EMC Corporation
    (“EMC”), and Carbonite, Inc.


 



    Security
    and Compliance


 


    In the security and management markets, we compete against many
    companies that offer competing products to our solutions. Our
    primary competitors in the security and management market are
    LANDesk Software, Inc., McAfee, Microsoft Corporation
    (“Microsoft”), and Trend Micro. There are also several
    smaller regional security companies that we compete against
    primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions.


 


    In the SaaS security market our primary competitors are Google
    Inc.’s Postini Services and Microsoft.




    
    10



Table of Contents






    Storage
    and Server Management


 


    The markets for storage and backup are intensely competitive.
    Our primary competitors are CA, Inc., CommVault Systems, Inc.,
    EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”), IBM Corp.
    (“IBM”), Microsoft, Sun Microsystems, Inc. (acquired
    by Oracle Corporation), and VMware, Inc.


 



    Services


 


    We believe that the principal competitive factors for our
    services segment include technical capability, customer
    responsiveness, and our ability to hire and retain talented and
    experienced services personnel. Our primary competitors in the
    services segment are EMC, HP, IBM, and regional specialized
    consulting firms. In the managed security services business, our
    primary competitors are IBM, and SecureWorks, Inc.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 



    Protective
    Measures


 


    We regard some of the features of our internal operations,
    software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on
    copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other
    measures to protect our proprietary information. Our
    intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that
    enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and
    technology and enhance our competitive position.


 


    As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter
    into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors,
    and corporate partners, and we enter into license agreements
    with respect to our software, documentation, and other
    proprietary information. These license agreements are generally
    non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also educate our
    employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to
    protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.


 



    Trademarks,
    Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses


 


    Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered
    trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to
    Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered,
    and/or
    applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks
    to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services
    from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign
    countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service
    mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The
    duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to
    country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain
    our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for
    as long as the trademarks are in use.


 


    We have a number of U.S. and foreign issued patents and
    pending patent applications, including patents and rights to
    patent applications acquired through strategic transactions,
    which relate to various aspects of our products and technology.
    The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the
    country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically
    17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or
    20 years from the date of filing of the patent application
    resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative
    to the expected lives of our products.


 


    Our products are protected under U.S. and international
    copyright laws and laws related to the protection of
    intellectual property and proprietary information. We take
    measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary
    rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the
    U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide
    sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may
    be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual
    property from third parties for use in our products, and
    generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed
    intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability
    to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is
    important to our success, we also believe that our business as a
    whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent,
    trademark, license, or other intellectual property right.


 



    Seasonality


 


    As is typical for many large software companies, our business is
    seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally
    higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our
    first and second fiscal quarters. A





    
    11



Table of Contents





    significant decline in license and maintenance orders is typical
    in the first quarter of our fiscal year as compared to license
    and maintenance orders in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal
    year. In addition, we generally receive a higher volume of
    software license and maintenance orders in the last month of a
    quarter, with orders concentrated in the later part of that
    month. We believe that this seasonality primarily reflects
    customer spending patterns and budget cycles, as well as the
    impact of compensation incentive plans for our sales personnel.
    Revenue generally reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a
    lesser extent than orders because revenue is not recognized
    until an order is shipped or services are performed and other
    revenue recognition criteria are met, and because a significant
    portion of our in-period revenue is provided by the ratable
    recognition of our deferred revenue balance.


 



    Employees


 


    As of April 2, 2010, we employed more than
    17,400 people worldwide, approximately 47 percent of
    whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,200 employees
    work in sales and marketing; 5,600 in research and development;
    4,200 in support and services; and 1,400 in management and
    administration.


 



    Other
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.symantec.com. We make
    available free of charge on our website our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”). Other than the information
    expressly set forth in this annual report, the information
    contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this
    annual report.


 


    The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC
    20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the
    Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers, such as us, that file
    electronically with the SEC.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    A description of the risk factors associated with our business
    is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive and you should
    carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before
    investing in our common stock.


 



    Adverse
    global economic events may harm our business, operating results
    and financial condition.


 


    Adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our
    business, operating results or financial condition under a
    number of different scenarios. During challenging economic times
    and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers
    may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or
    additional instances of existing products, upgrade their
    existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are
    often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase
    services. Customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the
    requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our
    products and services. An adverse macroeconomic environment
    could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers
    be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously
    purchased products and services. Accordingly, reserves for
    doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may
    increase. In addition, weakness in the market for end users of
    our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and
    resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or
    experience other financial difficulties. This would further
    increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays
    in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers.


 


    In addition, financial institution difficulties may make it more
    difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or
    otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing
    activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing
    activities. Specific economic trends, such as declines in the
    demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices, or
    softness in corporate information technology spending, could
    have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Fluctuations
    in demand for our products and services are driven by many
    factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could
    adversely affect our financial results.


 


    We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and
    services due to a variety of factors, including general economic
    conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological
    change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and
    budget constraints of our current and potential customers,
    levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to IT
    systems, and other factors. While such factors may, in some
    periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also
    negatively impact our product sales. If demand for our products
    declines because of general economic conditions or for other
    reasons, our revenues and gross margin could be adversely
    affected.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services
    that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable
    to continually improve the performance, features, and
    reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our
    business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business
    and operating results could be adversely affected.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the
    rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or
    introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a
    timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and will continue to
    incur, significant research and development expenses as we
    strive to remain competitive. New product development and
    introduction involves a significant commitment of time and
    resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Managing the length of the development cycle for new products
    and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than
    we originally expected




 



     
        • 

    
    Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to
    technological developments by our competitors and customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Extending the operation of our products and services to new and
    evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products,
    such as netbooks




 



     
        • 

    
    Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited
    experience




 



     
        • 

    
    Managing new product and service strategies, including
    integrating our various security and storage technologies,
    management solutions, customer service, and support into unified
    enterprise security and storage solutions




 



     
        • 

    
    Incorporating acquired products and technologies




 



     
        • 

    
    Addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship
    new or acquired products




 



     
        • 

    
    Developing or expanding efficient sales channels




 



     
        • 

    
    Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access
    from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to
    enable the development and deployment of interoperable products,
    including source code licenses for certain products with deep
    technical integration into operating systems





 


    In addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace
    with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted.
    In connection with our enterprise software offerings, we license
    our applications on a variety of bases, such as per server, per
    processor, or based on performance criteria such as per amount
    of data processed or stored. If enterprises continue to migrate
    towards solutions, such as virtualization, which allow
    enterprises to run multiple applications and operating systems
    on a single server and thereby reduce the number of servers they
    are required to own and operate, we may experience lower license
    revenues unless we are able to successfully change our
    enterprise licensing model or sell additional software to take
    into account the impact of these new solutions.


 


    If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges,
    or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not
    technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance,
    our business and operating results could be adversely affected.




    
    13



Table of Contents






    We
    operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors
    may gain market share in the markets for our products that could
    adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to
    decline.


 


    We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate
    or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new
    competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our
    competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop
    in revenue that could adversely affect our business and
    operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain a
    successful research and development effort to develop new
    products and services and enhance existing products and
    services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or
    product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to
    competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological
    changes and changes in the ways that our information is
    accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer
    markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors
    or to changing technological and customer demands, we could
    experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our
    financial results.


 


    Our traditional competitors include independent software vendors
    that offer software products that directly compete with our
    product offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors
    directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with
    them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the
    product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer
    hardware OEMs and ISPs. Our competitors could gain market share
    from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products
    with the products of our competitors or if they more actively
    promote our competitors’ products than our products. In
    addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with
    theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or
    other vendors’ software or may limit our access to standard
    product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products
    for their platform.


 


    We face growing competition from network equipment and computer
    hardware manufacturers and large operating system providers.
    These firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into
    their products data protection and storage and server management
    software that competes at some levels with our product
    offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected
    to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality
    incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our
    products.


 


    Security protection is also offered by some of our competitors
    at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is bundled for
    free. Some companies offer the lower-priced or free security
    products within their computer hardware or software products
    that are inferior to our products. Our competitive position
    could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers
    perceive these security products as replacing the need for more
    effective, full featured products such as those that we provide.
    The expansion of these competitive trends could have a
    significant negative impact on our sales and financial results.


 


    Another growing industry trend is the SaaS business model, where
    software vendors develop and host their applications for use by
    customers over the Internet. This allows enterprises to obtain
    the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated
    software without the associated complexity or high initial
    set-up and
    operational costs. Advances in the SaaS business model could
    enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the
    success of our traditional software licensing models. We are
    offering our own SaaS offerings, including those related to our
    fiscal 2009 acquisition of Message Labs, and we continue to
    incorporate these offerings into our licensing model. However,
    we may not be able to successfully incorporate our SaaS
    offerings into our current licensing models. Our inability to
    successfully develop and market new and existing SaaS product
    offerings could cause us to lose business to competitors.


 


    Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical,
    sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently
    may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their
    products instead of ours. We also face competition from many
    smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the
    markets in which we compete.




    
    14



Table of Contents






    If we
    fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively
    or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to
    their customers, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    We sell our products to customers around the world through
    multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. Sales through
    these different channels involve distinct risks, including the
    following:


 


    Direct Sales.  A significant portion of our
    revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our
    direct sales force to end-users. Special risks associated with
    this sales channel include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales
    force




 



     
        • 

    
    Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to
    become productive, including regular updates to cover new and
    revised products





 


    Indirect Sales Channels.  A significant portion
    of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels,
    including distributors that sell our products to end-users and
    other resellers. This channel involves a number of risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products
    to end-users




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally
    nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute
    competing products and may, from time to time, place greater
    emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing,
    promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors




 



     
        • 

    
    Recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased
    their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software
    providers





 


    OEM Sales Channels.  A significant portion of
    our revenues is derived from sales through our OEM partners that
    incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with,
    their products. Our reliance on this sales channel involves many
    risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the shipping dates or volume of systems
    shipped




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners are generally not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements
    with us and new terms may be less favorable due, among other
    things, to an increasingly competitive relationship with certain
    partners




 



     
        • 

    
    Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general
    economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and
    other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales




 



     
        • 

    
    The development work that we must generally undertake under our
    agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest
    significant resources and incur significant costs with little or
    no associated revenues




 



     
        • 

    
    The time and expense required for the sales and marketing
    organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our
    products may make it more difficult to introduce those products
    to the market




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own
    products and market and distribute products of our competitors,
    which could reduce our sales




 



     
        • 

    
    In many cases we must incur up-front costs to access the OEM
    channel, particularly in the consumer market, and we may not
    recoup those up-front costs if customers do not ultimately
    activate and purchase our products







    
    15



Table of Contents




 


    If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels
    successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or
    otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce
    our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our
    competitive position. Some of our distribution partners have
    experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our
    partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of
    general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners
    may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced
    sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect
    our operating results. In addition, reliance on multiple
    channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability
    in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable
    to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse
    operating results in future periods.


 



    We
    have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that
    give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect
    our future financial results.


 


    We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the
    future, other businesses, business units, and technologies.
    Acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and
    challenges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of
    acquired business operations, workforce, products, and
    technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee
    base, product lines, and technology




 



     
        • 

    
    Diversion of management time and attention from our existing
    business and other business opportunities




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated
    with the termination or replacement of those employees




 



     
        • 

    
    Assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired
    business, including litigation related to the acquired business




 



     
        • 

    
    The addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased
    expenses and working capital requirements




 



     
        • 

    
    Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act




 



     
        • 

    
    Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related
    expenses, write-off of in-process research and development,
    impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and
    stock-based compensation expense, such as the $7.4 billion
    goodwill write-down we recorded during fiscal 2009





 


    Integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be
    a complex, time consuming, and expensive process, and can impact
    the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting.


 


    If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we
    may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or
    suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee.
    To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our
    technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and
    manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must
    effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired
    business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various
    interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no
    or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have
    stronger market positions.


 


    Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability
    to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired
    businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of
    acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of high
    technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be
    given that our previous or future acquisitions will be
    successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating
    results, or financial condition.


 



    We
    have not historically maintained substantial levels of
    indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of
    operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively
    manage our liabilities.


 


    In June 2006, we sold $2.1 billion in aggregate principal
    amount of convertible senior notes. As a result of the sale of
    the notes, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term
    debt than we maintained prior to that sale. In addition, we have
    entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of
    $1 billion. As of April 2, 2010, we had no borrowings
    under our credit facility. From time to time in the future, we
    may also incur indebtedness in addition





    
    16



Table of Contents





    to the amount available under our credit facility. Our
    maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect
    our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate
    opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition
    and results of operations. Of our outstanding convertible notes,
    $1.1 billion matures and is repayable in June 2011 and the
    balance is due in June 2013. We may be required to use all or a
    substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on
    maturity unless we can obtain new financing.


 



    Our
    international operations involve risks that could increase our
    expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require
    increased time and attention of our management.


 


    We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers
    located outside of the U.S. and we have significant
    operations outside of the U.S., including engineering, sales,
    customer support, and production. We plan to expand our
    international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon
    the financial performance of our existing international
    operations as well as our identification of growth
    opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks
    in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of proprietary information due to
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. laws or may not be
    adequately enforced




 



     
        • 

    
    Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls,
    including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that
    reduce the flexibility of our business operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of
    encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the
    acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks
    for secure communications




 



     
        • 

    
    Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in
    international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the
    U.S.




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability
    such as higher interest rates in the U.S. and inflation
    that could reduce our customers’ ability to obtain
    financing for software products or that could make our products
    more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in
    certain countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current
    levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest
    sufficiently in our international operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and
    difficulties in collecting accounts receivable




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our
    international operations, including difficulties related to
    administering our stock plans in some foreign countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our
    geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in
    Europe and in other periods in other countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Reduced sales due to the failure to obtain any required export
    approval of our technologies, particularly our encryption
    technologies




 



     
        • 

    
    Costs and delays associated with developing software and
    providing support in multiple languages




 



     
        • 

    
    Political unrest, war, or terrorism, particularly in areas in
    which we have facilities





 


    A significant portion of our transactions outside of the
    U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly,
    our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to
    fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We expect to be affected
    by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future,
    especially if international sales continue to grow as a
    percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the
    United States continue to increase.


 


    The level of corporate tax from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers
    is less than the level of tax from sales to our
    U.S. customers. This benefit is contingent upon existing
    tax regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which
    our international operations are located. Future changes in
    domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect
    our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    Our
    products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer
    configurations, which could result in errors or product
    failures.


 


    Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors,
    failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first
    introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are
    often installed and used in large-scale computing environments
    with different operating systems, system management software,
    and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause
    errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected
    errors, failures, or bugs in our products. Our customers’
    computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety
    of standard and non-standard configurations that make
    pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very
    difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us
    and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new
    products or releases until after commencement of commercial
    shipments. In the past, we have discovered software errors,
    failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after
    their introduction and, in some cases, may have experienced
    delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.


 


    Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could
    result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product
    returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products,
    loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others.
    Many of our end-user customers use our products in applications
    that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater
    sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other,
    less critical, software products. In addition, if an actual or
    perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs
    in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of
    whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market
    perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed.
    Alleviating any of these problems could require significant
    expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause
    interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing,
    which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key
    personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully,
    or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be
    unable to develop new and enhanced products and services,
    effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our
    revenues.


 


    Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and
    retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance,
    and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key
    personnel are
    employees-at-will,
    and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
    Competition for people with the specific skills that we require
    is significant. In order to attract and retain personnel in a
    competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a
    competitive compensation package, including cash and
    equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may
    from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or
    retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain
    required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number
    of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation
    plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of
    employee stock options and other forms of equity-based
    compensation as compensation expense. As a result, we may decide
    to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in
    our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are
    unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if
    we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels
    when required by market conditions, our business and operating
    results could be adversely affected.


 


    From time to time, key personnel leave our company. While we
    strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss
    of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to
    our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of
    product releases, the successful implementation and completion
    of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures and our internal control over financial
    reporting, and the results of our operations. In addition,
    hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales
    and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause
    additional disruptions to our operations, and may be
    unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues.




    
    18



Table of Contents






    From
    time to time we are a party to class action lawsuits, which
    often require significant management time and attention and
    result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not
    determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial
    condition, results of operations, and cash flows.


 


    We have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we
    may be named in additional litigation. The expense of defending
    such litigation may be costly and divert management’s
    attention from the
    day-to-day
    operations of our business, which could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, an
    unfavorable outcome in such litigation could negatively impact
    our business, results of operations, and cash flows.


 



    Third
    parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could
    cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from
    selling our products.


 


    From time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the
    intellectual property rights of others, including claims
    regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. In addition,
    former employers of our former, current, or future employees may
    assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to
    us the confidential or proprietary information of these former
    employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result
    in costly litigation and distract management from
    day-to-day
    operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims,
    we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or
    redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter
    into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy
    indemnification obligations that we have with some of our
    customers. We cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing
    arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.


 


    In addition, we license and use software from third parties in
    our business. These third party software licenses may not
    continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all,
    and may expose us to additional liability. This liability, or
    our inability to use any of this third party software, could
    result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business
    that could materially and adversely affect our operating results.


 



    If we
    do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third
    parties from making unauthorized use of our products and
    technology, our financial results could be harmed.


 


    Most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary.
    We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination
    of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through
    copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. However,
    all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be
    challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. Third
    parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise
    obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information
    without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or
    superior technology independently by designing around our
    patents. Our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by
    licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of
    some jurisdictions. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign
    countries do not offer the same level of protection of our
    proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be
    subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries.
    The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary
    information could result in reduced sales of our products. Any
    legal action to protect proprietary information that we may
    bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could
    adversely affect our ability to access software, operating
    system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or
    cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products
    to their customers. In addition, any legal action to protect
    proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in,
    alone or through our alliances with the Business Software
    Alliance (“BSA”), or the Software &
    Information Industry Association (“SIIA”), could be
    costly, may distract management from
    day-to-day
    operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Some
    of our products contain “open source” software, and
    any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these
    open source licenses could negatively affect our
    business.


 


    Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed
    by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open
    source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the
    GNU General Public License (“GPL”), GNU Lesser General
    Public License (“LGPL”), the Mozilla Public License,
    the BSD License, and the Apache





    
    19



Table of Contents





    License. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we
    make available source code for modifications or derivative works
    we create based upon the open source software, and that we
    license such modifications or derivative works under the terms
    of a particular open source license or other license granting
    third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of
    certain open source licenses, we could be required to release
    the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our
    proprietary software with open source software in a certain
    manner. In addition to risks related to license requirements,
    usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use
    of third party commercial software, as open source licensors
    generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the
    software. We have established processes to help alleviate these
    risks, including a review process for screening requests from
    our development organizations for the use of open source, but we
    cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval
    prior to use in our products. In addition, many of the risks
    associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and
    could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business.


 



    Our
    software products and website may be subject to intentional
    disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future
    sales.


 


    Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to
    prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing
    target of attacks specifically designed to impede the
    performance of our products and harm our reputation as a
    company. Similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt
    to penetrate our network security or the security of our website
    and misappropriate proprietary information
    and/or cause
    interruptions of our services. Because the techniques used by
    such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change
    frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a
    target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. The
    theft and/or
    unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other
    confidential business information as a result of such an event
    could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation,
    brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may
    assert claims against us related to resulting losses of
    confidential or proprietary information. Our business could be
    subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary
    and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such
    incidents and claims.


 



    Increased
    customer demands on our technical support services may adversely
    affect our relationships with our customers and our financial
    results.


 


    We offer technical support services with many of our products.
    We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate
    short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We
    also may be unable to modify the format of our support services
    to compete with changes in support services provided by
    competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers.
    Further customer demand for these services, without
    corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    We have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide
    consumer support functions to third party service providers. If
    these companies experience financial difficulties, do not
    maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy
    our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient
    level under these contracts, the level of support services to
    our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could
    materially harm our relationships with these customers.


 



    Accounting
    charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial
    results.


 


    Our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to
    be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other
    accounting charges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product
    rights




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of goodwill




 



     
        • 

    
    Stock-based compensation expense




 



     
        • 

    
    Restructuring charges




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of long-lived assets




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets
    held for sale







    
    20



Table of Contents




 


    For example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill
    impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a
    significant net loss for the year. Goodwill is evaluated
    annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal
    year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as
    we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and
    our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and
    assumptions made by our management. Our assessment of any
    impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair
    value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of
    that reporting unit. Our determination of fair value relies on
    management’s assumptions of our future revenues, operating
    costs, and other relevant factors. If management’s
    estimates of future operating results change, or if there are
    changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate
    applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair
    value of our reporting units could change significantly, which
    could result in a goodwill impairment charge. In addition, we
    evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible
    assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate
    that the value of these assets might be impaired. If we
    determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an
    impairment charge against the value of these assets.


 


    The foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred
    in connection with or as a result of other business
    acquisitions. The price of our common stock could decline to the
    extent that our financial results are materially affected by the
    foregoing accounting charges.


 



    Our
    effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income
    tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income
    (loss).


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income
    before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate
    that have differing statutory tax rates




 



     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple
    jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of
    certain tax rulings




 



     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods




 



     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place.





 


    The price of our common stock could decline if our financial
    results are materially affected by an adverse change in our
    effective tax rate.


 


    We report our results of operations based on our determinations
    of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in
    which we operate. From time to time, we receive notices that a
    tax authority in a particular jurisdiction in which we are
    subject to taxes has determined that we owe a greater amount of
    tax than we have reported to such authority. We are regularly
    engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax
    authorities. We are engaged in disputes of this nature at this
    time. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of
    these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax
    provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating
    results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely
    affected.


 



    Fluctuations
    in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of
    our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in
    the future.


 


    Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and
    are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number
    of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which
    could adversely affect our operations and operating results. If
    our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future
    financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively
    affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may
    make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or
    pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our
    operating results for prior periods may not be effective
    predictors of our future performance.




    
    21



Table of Contents





    Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our
    business, and the markets for our products may cause our
    quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Reduced demand for any of our products




 



     
        • 

    
    Entry of new competition into our markets




 



     
        • 

    
    Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of
    products




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced
    versions of our products




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates




 



     
        • 

    
    The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms
    and viruses)




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases
    near the end of each quarter




 



     
        • 

    
    Enterprise customers’ tendency to negotiate site licenses
    near the end of each quarter




 



     
        • 

    
    Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Movement in interest rates




 



     
        • 

    
    The rate of adoption of new product technologies and new
    releases of operating systems




 



     
        • 

    
    Weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry
    conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate
    that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our
    products and services




 



     
        • 

    
    Political and military instability, which could slow spending
    within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise
    adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate
    effectively




 



     
        • 

    
    Budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by
    corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending
    objectives




 



     
        • 

    
    Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused
    by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural
    disasters affecting our headquarters located in Silicon Valley,
    California, an area known for seismic activity, or our other
    locations worldwide




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of war or terrorism




 



     
        • 

    
    Intentional disruptions by third parties




 



     
        • 

    
    Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic





 


    Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of
    our common stock to fluctuate significantly.


 



    Our
    stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose
    the value of your investment.


 


    The market price of our common stock has experienced significant
    fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the
    future, and as a result you could lose the value of your
    investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected
    by a number of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and
    earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with
    our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or
    securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail
    to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the
    expectations of our investors or securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our
    competitors’ operations, management, organization,
    financial condition, or financial statements




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors,
    or securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment
    of goodwill




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or
    by our competitors







    
    22



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors,
    or our customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Gain or loss of a significant customer




 



     
        • 

    
    Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or
    emergency situations




 



     
        • 

    
    Economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic
    slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate





 


    The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of
    technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme
    price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue
    to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for
    reasons unrelated to our business or operating results.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B