Item 1A, Risk Factors. We encourage you to read that
    section carefully.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    Overview


 


    Symantec is a global leader of security, storage and systems
    management solutions to help businesses and consumers secure and
    manage their information. We conduct our business in three
    geographic regions: Americas, which includes United States,
    Canada, and Latin America; EMEA, which includes Europe, the
    Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific Japan (“APJ”).


 


    Our delivery network includes direct, inside, and channel sales
    resources that support our ecosystem of more than 40,000
    partners worldwide, as well as various relationships with
    original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), Internet
    service providers (“ISPs”), and retail and online
    stores. We provide customers worldwide with software and
    services that protect, manage and control information risks
    related to security, backup and recovery, storage, compliance,
    and systems management.


 


    Founded in 1982, Symantec has operations in more than 40
    countries and our principal executive offices are located at
    20330 Stevens Creek Blvd., Cupertino, California 95014. Our
    telephone number at that location is
    (408) 517-8000.
    Our home page on the Internet is www.symantec.com. Other
    than the information expressly set forth in this annual report,
    the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not
    part of this annual report.


 



    Strategy


 


    Symantec’s strategy is to provide software and services to
    secure and manage the connected, information-driven world of our
    customers against more risks at more points, more completely and
    efficiently than any other company. We help individuals, small
    businesses, and global organizations ensure that their
    information, technology infrastructures and related processes
    are protected, managed easily and controlled automatically,
    independent of devices, platforms or locations.


 


    We operate primarily in three diversified markets within the
    software sector: security, storage and systems management. The
    security market includes mission-critical products that protect
    consumers and enterprises from threats to electronic
    information, endpoint devices, and computer networks. Over the
    past year, we have seen a continued rise in the volume of
    security threats. Whereas attackers used to mass-distribute a
    threat to thousands or millions of targeted machines,
    today’s attackers often send individually crafted attacks
    to each victim. Attackers are also targeting users with
    social-engineering attacks, such as phishing websites that steal
    financial information, passwords and other personal data. The
    Internet has become the primary conduit for attack activity with
    hackers funneling threats through legitimate websites, placing a
    much larger percentage of the population at risk than in the
    past. Security continues to be a top priority for enterprises as
    information security is increasingly linked to regulatory
    compliance.


 


    The storage software market includes products that manage,
    archive, backup, and recover business-critical data. Key drivers
    of demand in this market include the increasing volume of
    information that organizations of all sizes must manage, which
    is doubling every two years, the need for data to be protected
    and accessible at all times, and the need for a growing number
    of critical applications to be continuously available. Other
    factors driving demand in this market include the increasing
    pressure on companies to lower storage and server management
    costs while simultaneously increasing the utilization,
    availability levels, and performance of their existing
    information technology (“IT”) infrastructure.


 


    The systems management market includes products that control the
    IT environment by streamlining efforts associated with
    deploying, managing, patching and remediating enterprise client
    and server assets. The drivers for demand in this market include
    customers’ desire to automate management tasks, to ensure
    business productivity and to reduce IT costs and complexity.


 


    We believe that the security, storage and systems management
    software markets are converging as customers increasingly
    require our help in mitigating their risk profiles and managing
    their storage solutions in order to secure and manage their most
    valuable asset — their information. As the tools and
    processes from these formerly discrete



    
    4



Table of Contents




    domains become more integrated, we have taken a more proactive
    and policy-driven approach to protecting and managing
    information throughout its lifetime.


 



    Business
    Developments and Highlights


 


    During fiscal 2009, we took the following actions to support our
    business:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We launched several new products and integrated new features
    into our products. Some of the new offerings in our enterprise
    business include: advanced electronic discovery and data
    de-duplication capabilities in our industry leading archiving
    platform; increased ability to discover, monitor and protect
    confidential information wherever it is stored or used through
    our data loss prevention solution; end-to-end coverage for the
    IT compliance lifecycle, including policy management, technical
    and procedural controls assessment in our compliance solution;
    support for VMware and
    Microsoft®

    Hyper-V in our backup and recovery solution; offering better
    visibility into IT assets, simplified day-to-day manageability
    and improved end-user productivity in our systems management
    solutions; and workspace management in our endpoint
    virtualization solution. In our consumer business, we delivered
    more than 300 performance improvements to our 2009 security
    products while providing even stronger protection against
    web-based attacks and other security threats. In addition, we
    expanded our consumer portfolio to include new web-based
    offerings for
    back-up and
    family safety, and we launched a remote PC Help service.




 



     
        • 

    
    We completed six acquisitions during fiscal 2009. We expanded
    our portfolio in the emerging and high growth areas of
    Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) and endpoint
    virtualization. In the SaaS space, we acquired MessageLabs Group
    Limited (“MessageLabs”). We also invested in our
    Consumer business by acquiring PC Tools Pty Ltd. (“PC
    Tools”) and SwapDrive, Inc. (“SwapDrive”). The PC
    Tools and SwapDrive acquisitions add new products, enhance our
    product portfolio with additional features and capabilities as
    well as help us acquire new customers.




 



     
        • 

    
    We reduced our cost structure in order to better align expenses
    with our revenue expectations. Some of the actions we took were:
    outsourcing certain IT and back-office finance functions;
    tightly managing our headcount costs; consolidating real-estate
    facilities; and reducing travel and entertainment expenses and
    other discretionary items.




 



     
        • 

    
    We made the following key changes to our executive management
    team: we announced John Thompson’s retirement as Chief
    Executive Officer and announced the appointment of Enrique Salem
    as President and Chief Executive Officer, each effective
    April 4, 2009, the first day of our fiscal 2010. As of that
    date, Enrique Salem also joined our Board of Directors and John
    Thompson remains the Chairman of the Board.




 



     
        • 

    
    We repurchased 42 million shares of our common stock for an
    aggregate amount of $700 million.





 



    Operating
    Segments and Products


 


    Our operating segments are significant strategic business units
    that offer different products and services, distinguished by
    customer needs. During fiscal 2009, we had five operating
    segments: Consumer, Security and Compliance, Storage and Server
    Management, Services, and Other.


 



    Consumer


 


    Our Consumer segment provides suites and services that include
    Internet security, PC tuneup, and backup for individual users
    and home offices. Our
    Nortontm

    brand of consumer security software products provides protection
    for
    Windows®,

    Macintosh®,

    Windows-Mobile®,

    and
    Symbiantm

    platforms.


 


    New customer acquisition is driven by increased threats, the
    need for identity protection, the growth of online transactions
    and the rapid increase of consumer data, such as photos, music
    libraries and video. Our award-winning Norton 2009 releases set
    a new standard for speed and performance. We continue to acquire
    customers through a diversified channel strategy that places our
    products where customers want to buy, including most of the top
    OEMs and through our number one position in retail. With the
    acquisition of PC Tools, Symantec reaches more segments, such as
    emerging markets, price sensitive consumers and new
    e-commerce
    channels.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    Norton retains and leverages its strong existing customer base
    through auto-renewal subscriptions, migrating customers from
    point products to multi-product suites such as Norton Internet
    Security and Norton 360 and selling them additional products or
    services such as NortonLive services or the new Norton Online
    Backup. Through Norton 360, various partnerships and online
    channels, we are the market leader for online backup. Symantec
    hosts over 30 petabytes of consumers’ data and we have more
    than 7 million customers.


 


    Symantec continued improving its consumer customer experience,
    satisfaction and loyalty during fiscal 2009. Our primary
    consumer products are: Norton
    360tm,

    Norton Internet
    Securitytm,

    and Norton AntiVirus.


 



    Security
    and Compliance


 


    Our Security and Compliance segment helps our customers
    standardize, automate and reduce the costs of day-to-day
    security activities in order to secure and manage their
    information.


 


    Our primary solutions in this segment address the following
    areas:


 



    Enterprise
    Security


 


    Enterprise security customer demand is driven by the quickly
    evolving threat environment, compliance regulations, and the
    need to keep confidential information from exposure outside the
    organization. Our solutions are built on market-leading policy
    management, data loss prevention, endpoint security, antispam,
    and content filtering technologies, allowing IT professionals to
    proactively mitigate information security risks and policy
    violations. We also help customers define, control, and govern
    their IT policies from a central location. This enables
    customers to protect critical assets and reduce business risk.
    Products include Symantec Endpoint Protection, Symantec Data
    Loss Prevention, Control Compliance Suite and Symantec
    Brightmail Gateway.


 



    Endpoint
    Management


 


    Our Endpoint Management business consisting of our systems
    management products is driven by the need for automated asset
    management, patch management and remediation. Our solutions
    offer better visibility into IT assets, simplified day-to-day
    manageability and improved end-user productivity, helping
    customers realize cost savings and value from their existing IT
    investments. Another key demand driver is endpoint
    virtualization, which frees up critical information from the
    myriad of operating system functions and devices so it can be
    secured and managed. Our products include the Altiris Client
    Management Suite, Altiris Server Management Suite, Altiris Total
    Management Suite, and Symantec Endpoint Virtualization Suite.


 



    Archiving


 


    Growth in our archiving business is driven by increased
    e-discovery
    requirements and the growth of unstructured data such as email
    and instant messaging (“IM”). Symantec Enterprise
    Vaulttm

    optimizes storage by reducing expensive long-term storage of
    this data in an easy to access format.


 



    Storage
    and Server Management


 


    Our Storage and Server Management segment focuses on providing
    enterprise customers with storage management, high availability,
    and backup and recovery solutions across heterogeneous storage
    and server platforms. These solutions enable companies to
    standardize on a single layer of infrastructure software that
    works on every major distributed operating system and supports
    every major storage device, database, and application.


 


    Our primary storage and server management solutions address the
    following areas:


 



    Storage
    Management and High Availability


 


    Our Storage Management and High Availability business is driven
    by our customers’ need to reduce overall storage costs
    through improved utilization of existing systems and
    virtualization. The business is also driven by customer
    migration to x86 based servers, which provides a reliance on
    management and availability tools to manage complexity and
    provide business continuity. Our products help customers
    simplify their data centers by



    
    6



Table of Contents




    standardizing storage management across their environment for
    more efficient use of their existing storage investment. They
    also enable enterprises to manage large storage environments and
    ensure the availability of critical applications. Products
    include Veritas Storage
    Foundationtm,

    Veritas CommandCentral Storage, and
    Veritastm

    Cluster Server.


 



    Backup
    and Recovery


 


    Growth in the backup and recovery business is driven by
    migration from tape to disk-based backup, support for
    virtualization, de-duplication, and continuous data protection.
    The transition of NetBackup to a platform-based architecture
    enables our customers to take advantage of these drivers.
    Products include Veritas
    NetBackuptm,

    Veritas NetBackup
    PureDisktm,

    Symantec Backup
    Exectm,

    and Symantec Backup Exec System Recovery.


 



    Services


 


    Symantec Global Services help customers address information
    security, availability, storage, and compliance challenges at
    the endpoint and in complex, multi-vendor data center
    environments. Our Services segment delivers Consulting,
    Education and Business Critical Services that help our customers
    maximize the value of their investment in our products and
    solutions. Managed Services and SaaS offerings provide customers
    the additional choice of on-demand services to meet their IT
    requirements.


 



    Consulting,
    Education and Business Critical Services


 


    Symantec Consulting provides advisory, product enablement and
    residency services to enable customers to assess, design,
    transform and operate their infrastructure, leveraging Symantec
    products and solutions. Education Services provides a full range
    of programs, including technical training and security awareness
    training, to help customers optimize their Symantec solutions.
    Business Critical Services, our highest level of support,
    provides personalized, proactive support from technical experts
    for enterprises that require secure, uninterrupted access to
    their data and applications.


 



    Managed
    Services and SaaS


 


    Symantec Managed Services and SaaS offerings enable customers to
    place resource-intensive IT operations under the management of
    experienced Symantec specialists in order to optimize existing
    resources and focus on strategic IT projects. This helps
    customers by reducing IT complexity, managing IT risk, and
    lowering the cost of operations. Recently acquired SaaS
    offerings from MessageLabs, combined with our Symantec
    Protection Network backup and recovery offerings provide our
    customers the flexibility to manage their business using online
    services or hybrid onsite and in-the-cloud solutions. These
    services include Symantec Managed Security Services, Symantec
    Managed Backup and MessageLabs Email Security Solutions.


 



    Financial
    Information by Segment and Geographic Region


 


    For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by
    geographical area, and long-lived assets by geographical area,
    see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the
    amount and percentage of our revenue contributed in each of our
    segments and our financial information, including information
    about geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7,
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations and Note 12 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report. For information regarding risks associated with our
    international operations, see Item 1A, Risk Factors.


 



    Sales and
    Go-To-Market Strategy


 



    Consumer


 


    We sell our consumer products and services to individuals and
    home offices globally through a multi-tiered network of
    distribution partners and through
    e-commerce
    channels. Our products are available to customers through
    distributors, retailers, direct marketers, Internet-based
    resellers, OEMs, system builders, and ISPs.



    
    7



Table of Contents




    Sales in the Consumer business through our electronic
    distribution channel, which includes sales derived from OEMs,
    subscriptions, upgrades, online sales, and renewals, grew by
    $143 million in fiscal 2009 over fiscal 2008. During fiscal
    2009, approximately 79 percent of revenue in the Consumer
    segment came from our electronic channels.


 



    Enterprise


 


    We sell and market our products and related services to
    enterprise customers through our direct sales force of more than
    3,500 and through a variety of indirect sales channels, which
    include value-added resellers, large account resellers,
    distributors, and system integrators. We also sell our products
    through authorized distributors in more than 40 countries and
    OEM partners who incorporate our technologies into their
    products, bundle our products with their offerings, or serve as
    authorized resellers of our products. Our sales efforts are
    primarily targeted to senior executives and IT department
    personnel responsible for managing a company’s IT
    initiatives.


 


    During fiscal 2009, we added a SaaS delivery model offering a
    pay-as-you-go model that meets the needs of enterprise and small
    and medium business with evolving storage and security
    requirements.


 



    Marketing
    and Advertising


 


    Our marketing expenditure relates primarily to advertising and
    promotion, which includes demand generation and brand
    recognition of our consumer and enterprise products. Our
    advertising and promotion efforts include, but are not limited
    to, electronic and print advertising, trade shows, collateral
    production, and all forms of direct marketing. We also invest in
    cooperative marketing campaigns with distributors, resellers,
    retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.


 


    We invest in various retention marketing and customer loyalty
    programs to help drive renewals and encourage customer advocacy
    and referrals. We also provide focused vertical marketing
    programs in targeted industries and countries.


 


    We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most
    countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and
    promotional rebates to distributors and end-users. Distributors
    and resellers earn volume incentive rebates primarily based upon
    product sales to end-users. We also offer rebates to individual
    users who purchase products through various resale channels. We
    regularly offer upgrade rebates to consumers purchasing a new
    version of a product. Both volume incentive rebates and end-user
    rebates are accrued as an offset to revenue.


 



    Support


 


    Symantec has centralized support facilities throughout the world
    that provide rapid, around-the-clock response, and are staffed
    by technical product experts knowledgeable in the operating
    environments in which our products are deployed. Our technical
    support experts assist customers with product implementation and
    usage, issue resolution and countermeasures, and threat
    detection.


 


    Symantec provides customers various levels of enterprise support
    offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers annual
    maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and
    technical support. Our standard technical support includes:
    unlimited hotline service delivered by telephone, fax, email,
    and over the Internet; immediate patches for severe problems;
    periodic software updates; and access to our technical knowledge
    base and frequently asked questions.


 


    Our Consumer product support program provides self-help online
    services, phone, chat, email support and fee-based premium
    support and diagnostic services to consumers worldwide.
    Customers that subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic
    downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug
    fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products.


 



    Customers


 


    In fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, one reseller, Digital River
    accounted for 10%, 11% and 12%, respectively, of our total net
    revenues. Digital River represented the only customer that
    accounted for 10 percent or more of



    
    8



Table of Contents




    revenues in fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, one
    distributor, Ingram Micro accounted for 10% and 11%,
    respectively, of our total net revenues. Our distributor
    arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several non-exclusive,
    independently negotiated agreements with its subsidiaries, each
    of which cover different countries or regions. Each of these
    agreements is separately negotiated and is independent of any
    other contract (such as a master distribution agreement), and
    these agreements are not based on the same form of contract.
    None of these contracts were individually responsible for over
    10 percent of our total net revenues in fiscal 2008 and
    2007.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process
    research and development associated with acquisitions, were
    $880 million, $894 million and $867 million in
    fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, representing
    approximately 14%, 15% and 17% of revenue in the respective
    periods. We believe that technical leadership is essential to
    our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial
    resources to research and development.


 


    Symantec embraces a global R&D strategy to drive organic
    innovation across the company. Engineers throughout the company
    pursue advanced projects and work with our engineering centers,
    research labs, global services teams, and new business incubator
    to translate R&D into next-generation security, storage and
    systems management technologies. Symantec focuses on short,
    medium, and long-term applied research, develops new products in
    emerging areas, participates in government-funded research
    projects, and partners with universities to conduct research to
    support Symantec’s vision. Symantec holds more than 600
    global patents.


 


    Our Security Response experts, located at research centers
    throughout the world, are focused on collecting and analyzing
    the latest malware threats, ranging from network security
    threats and vulnerabilities to viruses and worms. All this data
    is collected through the Symantec Global Intelligence Network,
    which provides insight into emerging trends in attacks,
    malicious code activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. This
    hands-on expertise is further leveraged in developing new
    technologies and approaches to protecting customers’
    information and systems.


 



    Acquisitions


 


    Our strategic technology acquisitions are designed to enhance
    the features and functionality of our existing products, and
    extend our product leadership, as well as to expand into
    emerging businesses such as SaaS and endpoint virtualization. We
    consider time to market, synergies with existing products, and
    potential market share gains when evaluating acquisitions of
    technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquire
    and/or
    dispose of other technologies, products and companies in the
    future.


 


    During fiscal 2009, we completed the following acquisitions:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Company Name



 



    Company Description



 



    Date Acquired




 





    Mi5, Inc. 



 


    A provider of web security appliances and technology to protect
    organizations against web-based threats.


 


    March 20, 2009





    MessageLabs Group Ltd. 



 


    A provider of managed services to protect, control, encrypt, and
    archive electronic communications including email.


 


    November 14, 2008





    PC Tools Pty. Ltd. 



 


    A global provider of innovative software products designed to
    protect the privacy and security of
    Windows®

    computer users.


 


    October 6, 2008





    nSuite Technologies, Inc. 



 


    A provider of connection broker and mobile workspace technology
    that is utilized in endpoint virtualization.


 


    August 8, 2008





    SwapDrive, Inc. 



 


    A provider of online backup and storage products.


 


    June 6, 2008





    AppStream, Inc. 



 


    A provider of application streaming technology that provides an
    on-demand application delivery mechanism for endpoint
    virtualization.


 


    April 18, 2008









    
    9



Table of Contents




    For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 5 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report.


 



    Competition


 


    Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject
    to rapid changes in technology. We are focused on integrating
    next generation technology capabilities into our solution set in
    order to differentiate ourselves from the competition. We
    believe that the principal competitive factors necessary to be
    successful in our industry also include, time to market, price,
    reputation, financial stability, breadth of product offerings,
    customer support, brand recognition, and effective sales and
    marketing efforts.


 


    In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors,
    we face indirect or potential competition from retail,
    application providers, operating system providers, network
    equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs, who may provide various
    solutions and functions in their current and future products. We
    also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for
    the attention of customers at the retail level and in corporate
    accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies,
    operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers and
    other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and
    to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete
    with other software companies in our effort to place our
    products on the computer equipment sold to consumers by OEMs.


 


    The competitive environments in which each segment operates are
    described below.


 



    Consumer


 


    Some of the channels in which our consumer products are offered
    are highly competitive. Our competitors are intensely focused on
    customer acquisition, which has led such competitors to offer
    their technology for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or
    enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary competitors in
    the Consumer segment are Kaspersky Lab, McAfee, Inc.
    (“McAfee”), Microsoft Corporation
    (“Microsoft”), and Trend Micro Inc. (“Trend
    Micro”). There are also several smaller regional security
    companies that we compete against primarily in the EMEA and APJ
    regions. For our consumer backup offerings, our primary
    competitors are Mozy, Inc. (“Mozy”), acquired by EMC
    Corporation, and Carbonite, Inc.


 



    Security
    and Compliance


 


    In the security and management markets, we compete against many
    companies that offer competing products to our technology
    solutions. Our primary competitors in the security and
    management market are LANDesk Software, Inc., McAfee, Microsoft,
    and Trend Micro. There are also several smaller regional
    security companies that we compete against primarily in the EMEA
    and APJ regions.


 



    Storage
    and Server Management


 


    The markets for storage and backup are intensely competitive.
    Our primary competitors are CA, Inc., CommVault Systems, Inc.,
    EMC Corporation (“EMC”), Hewlett-Packard Company
    (“HP”), IBM Corp. (“IBM”), Microsoft, Sun
    Microsystems, Inc., and VMware, Inc.


 



    Services


 


    We believe that the principal competitive factors for our
    services segment include technical capability, customer
    responsiveness, and our ability to hire and retain talented and
    experienced services personnel. Our primary competitors in the
    services segment are EMC, HP, IBM, and regional specialized
    consulting firms. In the managed security services business, our
    primary competitors are IBM, SecureWorks, Inc., and VeriSign,
    Inc.


 


    In the SaaS business, which includes the MessageLabs offerings,
    our primary competitors are Postini, acquired by Google, Inc.,
    and Mozy.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Intellectual
    Property


 



    Protective
    Measures


 


    We regard some of the features of our internal operations,
    software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on
    copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other
    measures to protect our proprietary information. Our
    intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that
    enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and
    technology and enhance our competitive position.


 


    As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter
    into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors,
    and corporate partners, and we enter into license agreements
    with respect to our software, documentation, and other
    proprietary information. These license agreements are generally
    non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also educate our
    employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to
    protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.


 



    Trademarks,
    Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses


 


    Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered
    trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to
    Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered,
    and/or
    applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks
    to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services
    from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign
    countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service
    mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The
    duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to
    country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain
    our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for
    as long as the trademarks are in use.


 


    We have a number of U.S. and foreign issued patents and
    pending patent applications, including patents and rights to
    patent applications acquired through strategic transactions,
    which relate to various aspects of our products and technology.
    The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the
    country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically
    17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or
    20 years from the date of filing of the patent application
    resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative
    to the expected lives of our products.


 


    Our products are protected under U.S. and international
    copyright laws and laws related to the protection of
    intellectual property and proprietary information. We take
    measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary
    rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the
    U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide
    sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may
    be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual
    property from third parties for use in our products, and
    generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed
    intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability
    to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is
    important to our success, we also believe that our business as a
    whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent,
    trademark, license, or other intellectual property right.


 



    Seasonality


 


    As is typical for many large software companies, our business is
    seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally
    higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our
    first and second fiscal quarters. A significant decline in
    license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter
    of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders
    in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we
    generally receive a higher volume of software license and
    maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders
    concentrated in the later part of that month. We believe that
    this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns
    and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation
    incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally
    reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than
    orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is
    shipped or services are performed and other revenue recognition
    criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our
    in-period revenue is provided by the ratable recognition of our
    deferred revenue balance.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Employees


 


    As of April 3, 2009, we employed more than
    17,400 people worldwide, approximately 48 percent of
    whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,300 employees
    work in sales and marketing; 5,600 in research and development;
    4,000 in support and services; and 1,500 in management,
    manufacturing, and administration.


 



    Other
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.symantec.com. We make
    available free of charge on our website our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”). Other than the information
    expressly set forth in this annual report, the information
    contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this
    annual report.


 


    The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC
    20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the
    Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers, such as us, that file
    electronically with the SEC.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    A description of the risk factors associated with our business
    is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive and you should
    carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before
    investing in our common stock.


 



    The
    recent global economic crisis may harm our business, operating
    results and financial condition.


 


    The recent global economic crisis has caused a tightening in the
    credit markets, increases in the rates of default and
    bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed
    income markets. These macroeconomic developments could
    negatively affect our business, operating results or financial
    condition under a number of different scenarios. For example,
    current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to
    license new products or additional instances of existing
    products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating
    environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new
    purchases of our software), or purchase services. Customers may
    also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party
    financing to complete the purchase of our products and services.
    The current economic environment could also subject us to
    increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or
    delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services.
    Accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of
    accounts receivable may increase. In addition, weakness in the
    market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of
    our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their
    obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties.
    This would further increase our credit risk exposure and,
    potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales
    to these customers.


 


    In addition, financial institution difficulties
    and/or
    failures may make it more difficult either to utilize our
    existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our
    operations, investing activities (including potential
    acquisitions) or financing activities. Specific economic trends,
    such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other
    computing devices, or softness in corporate information
    technology spending, could have an even more direct, and
    harmful, impact on our business. Finally, our cash and our
    investment portfolio, which includes short-term debt securities,
    is subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market
    and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent
    global financial crisis. Our investment in our joint venture
    with Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd. could also become impaired. If
    the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets
    continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our cash and our
    investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and
    liquidity of our investments could be harmed.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Fluctuations
    in demand for our products and services are driven by many
    factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could
    adversely affect our financial results.


 


    We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and
    services due to a variety of factors, including general economic
    conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological
    change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and
    budget constraints of our actual and potential customers, levels
    of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to IT systems,
    and other factors. While such factors may, in some periods,
    increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also
    negatively impact our product sales. If demand for our products
    declines because of general economic conditions or for other
    reasons, our revenues and gross margin could be adversely
    affected.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services
    that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable
    to continually improve the performance, features, and
    reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our
    business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business
    and operating results could be adversely affected.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the
    rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or
    introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a
    timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and will continue to
    incur, significant research and development expenses as we
    strive to remain competitive. New product development and
    introduction involves a significant commitment of time and
    resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Managing the length of the development cycle for new products
    and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than
    we originally expected




 



     
        • 

    
    Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to
    technological developments by our competitors and customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Extending the operation of our products and services to new and
    evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products,
    such as netbooks




 



     
        • 

    
    Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited
    experience




 



     
        • 

    
    Managing new product and service strategies, including
    integrating our various security and storage technologies,
    management solutions, customer service, and support into unified
    enterprise security and storage solutions




 



     
        • 

    
    Incorporating acquired products and technologies




 



     
        • 

    
    Trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new or
    acquired products




 



     
        • 

    
    Developing or expanding efficient sales channels




 



     
        • 

    
    Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access
    from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to
    enable the development and deployment of interoperable products,
    including source code licenses for certain products with deep
    technical integration into operating systems





 


    In addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace
    with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted.
    In connection with our enterprise software offerings, we license
    our applications on a variety of bases, such as per server, per
    processor, or based on performance criteria such as per amount
    of data processed or stored. If enterprises continue to migrate
    towards solutions, such as virtualization, which allow
    enterprises to run multiple applications and operating systems
    on a single server and thereby reduce the number of servers they
    are required to own and operate, we may experience lower license
    revenues unless we are able to successfully change our
    enterprise licensing model or sell additional software to take
    into account the impact of these new solutions.


 


    If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges,
    or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not
    technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance,
    our business and operating results could be adversely affected.



    
    13



Table of Contents





    We
    operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors
    may gain market share in the markets for our products that could
    adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to
    decline.


 


    We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate
    or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new
    competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our
    competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop
    in revenue that could adversely affect our business and
    operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain a
    successful research and development effort to develop new
    products and services and enhance existing products and
    services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or
    product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to
    competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological
    changes and changes in the ways that our information is
    accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer
    markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors
    or to changing technological and customer demands, we could
    experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our
    financial results.


 


    Our traditional competitors include independent software vendors
    that offer software products that directly compete with our
    product offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors
    directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with
    them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the
    product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer
    hardware OEMs and ISPs. Our competitors could gain market share
    from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products
    with the products of our competitors or if they more actively
    promote our competitors’ products than our products. In
    addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with
    theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or
    other vendors’ software or may limit our access to standard
    product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products
    for their platform.


 


    We face growing competition from network equipment and computer
    hardware manufacturers and large operating system providers.
    These firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into
    their products data protection and storage and server management
    software that competes at some levels with our product
    offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected
    to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality
    incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our
    products.


 


    Another growing industry trend is the SaaS business model,
    whereby software vendors develop and host their applications for
    use by customers over the Internet. This allows enterprises to
    obtain the benefits of commercially licensed, internally
    operated software without the associated complexity or high
    initial
    set-up and
    operational costs. Advances in the SaaS business model could
    enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the
    success of our traditional software licensing models. We have
    released our own SaaS offerings and we recently acquired Message
    Labs, a provider of SaaS offerings, and we continue to
    incorporate these offerings into our licensing model. However,
    it is uncertain whether our SaaS strategy will prove successful
    or whether we will be able to successfully incorporate our SaaS
    offerings into our current licensing models. Our inability to
    successfully develop and market SaaS product offerings could
    cause us to lose business to competitors.


 


    Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical,
    sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently
    may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their
    products instead of ours. We also face competition from many
    smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the
    markets in which we compete.


 



    If we
    fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively
    or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to
    their customers, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    We sell our products to customers around the world through
    multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. Sales through
    these different channels involve distinct risks, including the
    following:


 


    Direct Sales.  A significant portion of our
    revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our
    direct sales force to end-users. Special risks associated with
    this sales channel include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales
    force






    
    14



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to
    become productive, including regular updates to cover new and
    revised products





 


    Indirect Sales Channels.  A significant portion
    of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels,
    including distributors that sell our products to end-users and
    other resellers. This channel involves a number of risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products
    to end-users




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally
    nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute
    competing products and may, from time to time, place greater
    emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing,
    promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors




 



     
        • 

    
    Recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased
    their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software
    providers





 


    OEM Sales Channels.  A significant portion of
    our revenues is derived from sales through our OEM partners that
    incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with,
    their products. Our reliance on this sales channel involves many
    risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the shipping dates or volume of systems
    shipped




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners are generally not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements
    with us and new terms may be less favorable due, among other
    things, to an increasingly competitive relationship with certain
    partners




 



     
        • 

    
    Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general
    economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and
    other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales




 



     
        • 

    
    The development work that we must generally undertake under our
    agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest
    significant resources and incur significant costs with little or
    no associated revenues




 



     
        • 

    
    The time and expense required for the sales and marketing
    organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our
    products may make it more difficult to introduce those products
    to the market




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own
    products and market and distribute products of our competitors,
    which could reduce our sales





 


    As noted above, the amount of our sales through our OEM channels
    is significantly affected by our partners’ sales of new
    products into which our products are bundled. The adverse
    developments in global economic conditions are, among other
    things, adversely affecting personal computer sales, and if this
    trend continues our Consumer segment could continue to be
    adversely affected.


 


    If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels
    successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or
    otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce
    our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our
    competitive position. Some of our distribution partners have
    experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our
    partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of
    general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners
    may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced
    sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect
    our operating results. In addition, reliance on multiple
    channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability
    in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable
    to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse
    operating results in future periods.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    We
    have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that
    give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect
    our future financial results.


 


    We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the
    future, other businesses, business units, and technologies.
    Acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and
    challenges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of
    acquired business operations, workforce, products, and
    technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee
    base, product lines, and technology




 



     
        • 

    
    Diversion of management time and attention from our existing
    business and other business opportunities




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated
    with the termination or replacement of those employees




 



     
        • 

    
    Assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired
    business, including litigation related to the acquired business




 



     
        • 

    
    The addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased
    expenses and working capital requirements




 



     
        • 

    
    Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act




 



     
        • 

    
    Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related
    expenses, write-off of in-process research and development,
    impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and
    stock-based compensation expense, such as the $7.4 billion
    goodwill write-down we recorded during fiscal 2009





 


    Integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be
    a complex, time consuming, and expensive process, and can impact
    the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting.


 


    If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we
    may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or
    suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee.
    To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our
    technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and
    manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must
    effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired
    business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various
    interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no
    or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have
    stronger market positions.


 


    Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability
    to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired
    businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of
    acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of high
    technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be
    given that our previous or future acquisitions will be
    successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating
    results, or financial condition.


 



    We
    have not historically maintained substantial levels of
    indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of
    operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively
    manage our liabilities.


 


    In June 2006, we sold $2.1 billion in aggregate principal
    amount of convertible senior notes. As a result of the sale of
    the notes, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term
    debt than we have maintained in the past. In addition, we have
    entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of
    $1 billion. As of April 3, 2009, we had no borrowings
    under our credit facility. From time to time in the future, we
    may also incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available
    under our credit facility. Our maintenance of substantial levels
    of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage
    of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect
    our financial condition and results of operations. Of our
    outstanding convertible notes, $1.1 billion matures and is
    repayable in June 2011 and the balance is due in June 2013. We
    may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash
    balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain
    new financing.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    Our
    international operations involve risks that could increase our
    expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require
    increased time and attention of our management.


 


    We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers
    located outside of the U.S. and we have significant
    operations outside of the U.S., including engineering, sales,
    customer support, and production. We plan to expand our
    international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon
    the financial performance of our existing international
    operations as well as our identification of growth
    opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks
    in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of proprietary information due to
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. laws or may not be
    adequately enforced




 



     
        • 

    
    Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls,
    including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that
    reduce the flexibility of our business operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of
    encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the
    acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks
    for secure communications




 



     
        • 

    
    Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in
    international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the
    U.S.




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability
    such as higher interest rates in the U.S. and inflation
    that could reduce our customers’ ability to obtain
    financing for software products or that could make our products
    more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in
    certain countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current
    levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest
    sufficiently in our international operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and
    difficulties in collecting accounts receivable




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our
    international operations, including difficulties related to
    administering our stock plans in some foreign countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our
    geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in
    Europe and in other periods in other countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Reduced sales due to the failure to obtain any required export
    approval of our technologies, particularly our encryption
    technologies




 



     
        • 

    
    Costs and delays associated with developing software and
    providing support in multiple languages




 



     
        • 

    
    Political unrest, war, or terrorism, particularly in areas in
    which we have facilities





 


    A significant portion of our transactions outside of the
    U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly,
    our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to
    fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We expect to be affected
    by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future,
    especially if international sales continue to grow as a
    percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the
    United States continue to increase.


 


    The level of corporate tax from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers
    is less than the level of tax from sales to our
    U.S. customers. This benefit is contingent upon existing
    tax regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which
    our international operations are located. Future changes in
    domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect
    our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits.


 



    Our
    products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer
    configurations, which could result in errors or product
    failures.


 


    Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors,
    failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first
    introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are
    often installed and used in large-scale computing environments
    with different operating systems, system management software,
    and equipment and



    
    17



Table of Contents




    networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in
    our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs
    in our products. Our customers’ computing environments are
    often characterized by a wide variety of standard and
    non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for
    programming or compatibility errors very difficult and
    time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us and others,
    errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or
    releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. In
    the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs
    in certain of our product offerings after their introduction
    and, in some cases, may have experienced delayed or lost
    revenues as a result of these errors.


 


    Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could
    result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product
    returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products,
    loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others.
    Many of our end-user customers use our products in applications
    that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater
    sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other,
    less critical, software products. In addition, if an actual or
    perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs
    in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of
    whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market
    perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed.
    Alleviating any of these problems could require significant
    expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause
    interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing,
    which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key
    personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully,
    or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be
    unable to develop new and enhanced products and services,
    effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our
    revenues.


 


    Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and
    retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance,
    and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key
    personnel are
    employees-at-will,
    and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
    Competition for people with the specific skills that we require
    is significant. In order to attract and retain personnel in a
    competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a
    competitive compensation package, including cash and
    equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may
    from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or
    retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain
    required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number
    of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation
    plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of
    employee stock options and other forms of equity-based
    compensation as compensation expense. As a result, we may decide
    to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in
    our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are
    unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if
    we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels
    when required by market conditions, our business and operating
    results could be adversely affected.


 


    From time to time, key personnel leave our company. While we
    strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss
    of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to
    our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of
    product releases, the successful implementation and completion
    of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures and our internal control over financial
    reporting, and the results of our operations. In addition,
    hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales
    and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause
    additional disruptions to our operations, and may be
    unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues.


 



    We are
    regularly a party to class action lawsuits, which often require
    significant management time and attention and result in
    significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined
    favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition,
    results of operations, and cash flows.


 


    We have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we
    may be named in additional litigation. The expense of defending
    such litigation may be costly and divert management’s
    attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which
    could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and
    cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such
    litigation could negatively impact our business, results of
    operations, and cash flows.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Third
    parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could
    cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from
    selling our products.


 


    From time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the
    intellectual property rights of others, including claims
    regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. In addition,
    former employers of our former, current, or future employees may
    assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to
    us the confidential or proprietary information of these former
    employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result
    in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day
    operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims,
    we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or
    redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter
    into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy
    indemnification obligations that we have with some of our
    customers. We cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing
    arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.


 


    In addition, we license and use software from third parties in
    our business. These third party software licenses may not
    continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all,
    and may expose us to additional liability. This liability, or
    our inability to use any of this third party software, could
    result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business
    that could materially and adversely affect our operating results.


 



    If we
    do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third
    parties from making unauthorized use of our products and
    technology, our financial results could be harmed.


 


    Most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary.
    We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination
    of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through
    copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. However,
    all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be
    challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. Third
    parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise
    obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information
    without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or
    superior technology independently by designing around our
    patents. Our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by
    licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of
    some jurisdictions. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign
    countries do not offer the same level of protection of our
    proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be
    subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries.
    The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary
    information could result in reduced sales of our products. Any
    legal action to protect proprietary information that we may
    bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could
    adversely affect our ability to access software, operating
    system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or
    cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products
    to their customers. In addition, any legal action to protect
    proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in,
    alone or through our alliances with the Business Software
    Alliance (“BSA”), or the Software &
    Information Industry Association (“SIIA”), could be
    costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and
    may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely
    affect our operating results.


 



    Some
    of our products contain “open source” software, and
    any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these
    open source licenses could negatively affect our
    business.


 


    Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed
    by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open
    source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the
    GNU General Public License (“GPL”), GNU Lesser General
    Public License (“LGPL”), the Mozilla Public License,
    the BSD License, and the Apache License. Some of these licenses
    contain requirements that we make available source code for
    modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open
    source software, and that we license such modifications or
    derivative works under the terms of a particular open source
    license or other license granting third parties certain rights
    of further use. If we combine our proprietary software with open
    source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of
    the open source licenses, be required to release the source code
    of our proprietary software. In addition to risks related to
    license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to
    greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as
    open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or
    controls on origin of the software. We have established
    processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review
    process for screening requests from our development
    organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure
    that all



    
    19



Table of Contents




    open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our
    products. In addition, many of the risks associated with usage
    of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly
    addressed, negatively affect our business.


 



    Our
    software products and website may be subject to intentional
    disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future
    sales.


 


    Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to
    prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing
    target of attacks specifically designed to impede the
    performance of our products. Similarly, experienced computer
    programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the
    security of our website and misappropriate proprietary
    information or cause interruptions of our services. Because the
    techniques used by such computer programmers to access or
    sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized
    until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate
    these techniques. Our activities could be adversely affected and
    our reputation, brand and future sales harmed if these
    intentionally disruptive efforts are successful.


 



    Increased
    customer demands on our technical support services may adversely
    affect our relationships with our customers and our financial
    results.


 


    We offer technical support services with many of our products.
    We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate
    short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We
    also may be unable to modify the format of our support services
    to compete with changes in support services provided by
    competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers.
    Further customer demand for these services, without
    corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    We have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide
    consumer support functions to third party service providers. If
    these companies experience financial difficulties, do not
    maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy
    our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient
    level under these contracts, the level of support services to
    our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could
    materially harm our relationships with these customers.


 



    Accounting
    charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial
    results.


 


    Our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to
    be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other
    accounting charges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product
    rights




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of goodwill




 



     
        • 

    
    Stock-based compensation expense




 



     
        • 

    
    Restructuring charges




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of long-lived assets




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets
    held for sale





 


    For example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill
    impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a
    significant net loss for the year. Goodwill is evaluated
    annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal
    year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as
    we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and
    our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and
    assumptions made by our management. Our assessment of any
    impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair
    value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of
    that reporting unit. Our determination of fair value relies on
    management’s assumptions of our future revenues, operating
    costs, and other relevant factors. If management’s
    estimates of future operating results change, or if there are
    changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate
    applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair
    value of our reporting units could change significantly, which
    could result in a goodwill impairment charge. In addition, we
    evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible
    assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate
    that the value of these assets might be impaired. If we
    determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an
    impairment charge against the value of these assets.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    The foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred
    in connection with or as a result of other business
    acquisitions. The price of our common stock could decline to the
    extent that our financial results are materially affected by the
    foregoing accounting charges.


 



    Our
    effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income
    tax expense and reduce our net (loss) income.


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income
    before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate
    that have differing statutory tax rates




 



     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple
    jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of
    certain tax rulings




 



     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods




 



     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place.





 


    The price of our common stock could decline if our financial
    results are materially affected by an adverse change in our
    effective tax rate.


 


    We report our results of operations based on our determinations
    of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in
    which we operate. From time to time, we receive notices that a
    tax authority in a particular jurisdiction in which we are
    subject to taxes has determined that we owe a greater amount of
    tax than we have reported to such authority. We are regularly
    engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax
    authorities. We are engaged in disputes of this nature at this
    time. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of
    these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax
    provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating
    results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely
    affected.


 



    Fluctuations
    in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of
    our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in
    the future.


 


    Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and
    are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number
    of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which
    could adversely affect our operations and operating results. If
    our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future
    financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively
    affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may
    make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or
    pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our
    operating results for prior periods may not be effective
    predictors of our future performance.


 


    Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our
    business, and the markets for our products may cause our
    quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Reduced demand for any of our products




 



     
        • 

    
    Entry of new competition into our markets




 



     
        • 

    
    Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of
    products




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced
    versions of our products




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates




 



     
        • 

    
    The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms
    and viruses)




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases
    near the end of each quarter






    
    21



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Enterprise customers’ tendency to negotiate site licenses
    near the end of each quarter




 



     
        • 

    
    Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Movement in interest rates




 



     
        • 

    
    The rate of adoption of new product technologies and new
    releases of operating systems




 



     
        • 

    
    Weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry
    conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate
    that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our
    products and services




 



     
        • 

    
    Political and military instability, which could slow spending
    within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise
    adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate
    effectively




 



     
        • 

    
    Budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by
    corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending
    objectives




 



     
        • 

    
    Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused
    by, among other things,





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our
    headquarters located in Silicon Valley, California, an area
    known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of war or terrorism




 



     
        • 

    
    Intentional disruptions by third parties




 



     
        • 

    
    Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic





 


    Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of
    our common stock to fluctuate significantly.


 



    Our
    stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose
    the value of your investment.


 


    The market price of our common stock has experienced significant
    fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the
    future, and as a result you could lose the value of your
    investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected
    by a number of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and
    earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with
    our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or
    securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail
    to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the
    expectations of our investors or securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our
    competitors’ operations, management, organization,
    financial condition, or financial statements




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors,
    or securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment
    of goodwill




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or
    by our competitors




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors,
    or our customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Gain or loss of a significant customer




 



     
        • 

    
    Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or
    emergency situations




 



     
        • 

    
    Economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic
    slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate





 


    The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of
    technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme
    price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue
    to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for
    reasons unrelated to our business or operating results.



    
    22



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1B