Item 1A, Risk Factors, beginning on page 13. We
    encourage you to read that section carefully.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 


    Symantec is a global leader in providing security, storage and
    systems management solutions to help businesses and consumers
    secure and manage their information. We provide customers
    worldwide with software and services that protect, manage and
    control information risks related to security, data protection,
    storage, compliance, and systems management. We help our
    customers manage cost, complexity and compliance by protecting
    their IT infrastructure as they seek to maximize value from
    their IT investments.


 


    We deliver a comprehensive and diverse set of security and
    availability products and services to large enterprises,
    governments, small and medium-sized businesses, and consumers on
    a worldwide basis. Our delivery network includes direct, inside,
    and channel sales resources that support our ecosystem of more
    than 44,000 partners worldwide, as well as various relationships
    with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, Internet service
    providers, or ISPs, and retail and online stores. We operate in
    three geographic regions: Americas, which includes United
    States, Canada, and Latin America; EMEA, which includes Europe,
    Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific Japan (APJ).


 


    We operate primarily in two growing, diversified markets within
    the software sector: the security market and the storage
    software market. The security market includes products that
    protect consumers and enterprises from threats to endpoint
    devices, computer networks, and electronic information. Over the
    past several years, we have seen security threats continue to
    evolve from traditional viruses, worms, Trojan horses, and other
    vulnerabilities, and more recently from threats such as phishing
    (attacks that use spoofed websites and emails designed to record
    keystrokes or to deceive recipients into divulging personal
    financial data), email fraud, and identity theft. We have also
    seen security rise to a top priority for enterprises as
    information security is increasingly linked to regulatory
    compliance. This evolution is a key driver of our research and
    development and acquisition strategies, as we strive to
    differentiate our solutions from the competition and address our
    customers’ changing needs.


 


    The storage software market includes products that manage,
    archive, protect, and recover business-critical data. We believe
    that the security and storage software markets are converging as
    customers increasingly require our help in mitigating their risk
    profiles and managing their storage solutions in order to secure
    and manage their most valuable asset — their
    information. The worldwide storage software market consists of
    storage management, server and application management, backup
    and archiving, and infrastructure software products and
    services. Key drivers of demand in this market include the
    ever-increasing quantity of data being collected, the need for
    data to be protected, recoverable, and accessible at all times,
    and the need for a growing number of critical applications to be
    continuously available and highly performing.


 


    Other factors driving demand in these markets include the
    increase in the number of Internet users, computing devices, and
    companies conducting business online, the continuous automation
    of business processes, the on-going desire of organizations to
    manage their overall IT risk, the increasing pressure on
    companies to lower storage and server management costs while
    simultaneously increasing the utilization, availability levels,
    and performance of their existing IT infrastructure, and the
    increasing importance of document retention and regulatory
    compliance solutions.


 


    In the ever-changing threat landscape and increasingly complex
    IT environment for consumers and enterprises alike, we believe
    product differentiation will be the key to sustaining market
    leadership. Thus, we continually work to enhance the features
    and functionality of our existing products, extend our product
    leadership, and create innovative solutions for our customers.
    We focus on generating profitable and sustainable growth through
    internal research and development, licensing from third parties,
    and acquisitions of companies with leading technologies.


 



    Business
    Developments and Highlights


 


    During fiscal 2008, we took the following actions to support our
    business:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We developed and launched several new products and integrated
    new feature functionality into new versions of products across
    our offerings. As a result, customers are leveraging our broader
    product portfolio to help them secure and manage their critical
    asset — information. Some of the new offerings in our
    enterprise






    
    4



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    business include: an integrated single agent to manage endpoint
    protection that incorporates compliance functionality; a single
    solution for centralized, end-to-end management of backup
    environments as well as adding data de-duplication and
    continuous disk-based backup capability; data protection for
    archiving that includes a simple, easy-to-manage online storage
    option via our software-as-a-service platform; a standardized
    storage management solution for heterogeneous environments that
    simplifies data center infrastructure; an integrated data loss
    prevention solution that combines endpoint and network-back
    technology to prevent the loss of confidential data wherever it
    is used or stored; and, the integration of endpoint security and
    Windows-based backup, which includes process workflow and
    automation functionality, based on the Altiris web
    services-based architecture. In our consumer business, we
    delivered stronger protection against web-based attacks as well
    as password and identity management tools.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We formed a joint venture with Huawei, Technologies Co., Ltd to
    develop and manufacture security and storage appliances for
    global telecommunications carriers and enterprise customers. See
    Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
    this annual report for more information.




 



     
        • 

    
    We completed three acquisitions during fiscal 2008, Altiris,
    Inc., Vontu, Inc., and Transparent Logic Technologies, Inc. In
    addition, during fiscal 2009, we acquired AppStream, Inc. These
    acquisitions add new products as well as enhance our product
    portfolio with additional features and capabilities. See
    Note 4 and 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in this annual report for more information.




 



     
        • 

    
    We sold the Application Performance Management (APM) business
    because we determined that APM was not a focus area that aligned
    with our long-term strategic direction. See Note 6 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual report
    for more information.




 



     
        • 

    
    We reduced our cost structure in order to better align expenses
    with revenue expectations.




 



     
        • 

    
    We made the following key additions and changes to our executive
    management team:





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We announced the appointment of Enrique Salem as Chief Operating
    Officer responsible for product development, sales, services,
    marketing and IT. Mr. Salem will be focusing on improving
    operations by leveraging our broad portfolio of technology and
    services across the businesses, while ensuring the sales and
    services teams are executing on our product initiatives.




 



     
        • 

    
    We realigned the enterprise product groups to improve cross
    product line collaboration and drive better operating results.
    The enterprise product line leaders of the Security and
    Compliance group and Storage and Server Management group report
    directly to Mr. Salem.




 



     
        • 

    
    Greg Hughes was named Chief Strategy Officer responsible for
    strategy and corporate development. Mr. Hughes will be
    focusing on emerging growth areas, such as our Symantec
    Protection Network, our software-as-a-service (SaaS) platform,
    as well as identifying and investing in new business models and
    go-to-market strategies.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We repurchased 81 million shares of our common stock for an
    aggregate amount of $1.5 billion.





 


    Founded in 1982, Symantec has grown to approximately
    $5.9 billion in revenue in fiscal 2008, positioning
    Symantec as the fourth largest independent software company in
    the world based on revenue. We have operations in more than 40
    countries and our principal executive offices are located at
    20330 Stevens Creek Blvd., Cupertino, California 95014. Our
    telephone number at that location is
    (408) 517-8000.
    Our home page on the Internet is www.symantec.com. Other
    than the information expressly set forth in this annual report,
    the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not
    part of this annual report.


 


    For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by
    geographical area, and long-lived assets by geographical area,
    see Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the
    amount and percentage of our revenue contributed in each of our
    product categories and our financial information, including
    information about geographic areas in which we operate, see
    Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations and
    Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    in this annual report. For information regarding risks
    associated with our international operations, see Item 1A,
    Risk Factors.



    
    5



Table of Contents





    Operating
    Segments and Products


 


    Our operating segments are significant strategic business units
    that offer different products and services, distinguished by
    customer needs. During most of fiscal 2008, we had six operating
    segments: Consumer Products, Security and Data Management, Data
    Center Management, Services, Altiris, and Other. The Other
    segment is comprised of sunset products and products nearing the
    end of their life cycle and also includes general and
    administrative expenses; amortization of acquired product
    rights, other intangible assets, and other assets; charges, such
    as acquired in-process research and development, patent
    settlements, stock-based compensation, and restructuring; and
    certain indirect costs that are not charged to the other
    operating segments.


 


    During the March 2008 quarter, we modified our segment reporting
    structure in line with business operational changes associated
    with Enrique Salem’s promotion to Chief Operating Officer
    in January 2008. The following changes have been made to our
    segment reporting structure:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Security and Data Management segment was renamed the
    Security and Compliance segment.




 



     
        • 

    
    The Altiris segment, in its entirety, moved into the Security
    and Compliance segment.




 



     
        • 

    
    The Data Center Management segment was renamed the Storage and
    Server Management segment. We also moved the Backup Exec
    products to the Storage and Server Management Group from the
    Security and Data Management segment.




 



     
        • 

    
    There were no changes to net revenues in the Consumer Products,
    Services, or Other segments.





 


    The revised segment structure as noted above has been reflected
    in our financial results for all periods presented in this
    annual report.


 



    Consumer
    Products


 


    Our Consumer Products segment provides suites and services that
    include Internet security, PC tuneup, and backup for individual
    users and home offices. Our
    Nortontm
    brand of consumer security software products provides protection
    for
    Windows®,
    Macintosh®,
    Windows-Mobile®,
    and
    Symbiantm
    platforms.


 


    Many of Symantec’s consumer products include an ongoing
    commitment to provide product technology and feature updates
    throughout the typical
    12-month
    term of the subscription, to help ensure up-to-the-minute
    protection against the latest threats. Most of the products that
    we are currently marketing or developing feature
    LiveUpdatetm
    functionality, which automatically updates these products with
    the latest technology, malware protection, antispyware
    definitions, antiphishing and antispam blacklists, parental
    control databases, and many other types of security and
    application data.


 


    During fiscal 2008, the growth in our consumer business was
    driven by the evolving threat landscape, including malicious
    threats and crimeware, and increased demand for products that
    secure sensitive online consumer interactions, such as financial
    transactions, online backup and identity management. Our primary
    consumer products are: Norton
    360tm,
    Norton Internet
    Securitytm,
    and Norton AntiVirus.


 



    Security
    and Compliance


 


    Our Security and Compliance segment focuses on helping our
    customers standardize, automate and drive down the costs of
    day-to-day security activities.


 


    Our primary security and compliance solutions address the
    following areas:


 



    Endpoint
    Security and Management


 


    Our endpoint security and management offerings enable
    organizations to evaluate, protect, and remediate both managed
    and unmanaged systems as they connect to corporate assets.
    Integrated solutions help customers protect critical network
    endpoints such as desktops, servers, laptops, and mobile devices
    against known and unknown threats using technologies such as
    antivirus, antispyware, firewall, intrusion prevention, network
    access control, advanced management, and monitoring.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    Endpoint management solutions help customers further secure and
    ultimately reduce the cost of owning information technology by
    automating management tasks, including backup, recovery,
    deployment, migration, inventory, patch management, IT asset and
    service management, business process automation, data archiving
    and remote control. Products include
    Symantectm
    Endpoint Protection, Symantec Network Access Control, and
    Altiristm
    Total Management Suite.


 



    Information
    Risk Management


 


    Our Information Risk Management solutions provide a common
    framework for customers to consistently enforce data security
    policies across endpoints, networks, email, storage systems, and
    archiving. These solutions are built on market-leading policy
    management, archiving and retention, data loss prevention,
    antispam, and content filtering technologies, allowing IT
    professionals to proactively mitigate data security risks and
    policy violations while rapidly and cost-effectively responding
    to
    e-Discovery
    requests. We also help customers define, control, and govern
    their IT policies from a central location, enabling them to
    protect critical assets and reduce business risk by probing for
    network vulnerabilities, monitoring threats in real-time,
    retaining logs for analysis, managing security incidents, and
    demonstrating compliance with internal mandates and external
    regulations. Products include Symantec Information
    Foundationtm,
    Symantec Mail Security, Symantec Enterprise
    Vaulttm,
    Vontutm
    Data Loss Prevention, Symantec Control Compliance Suite,
    Symantec Security Information Manager, and Symantec Enterprise
    Security
    Managertm.


 



    Storage
    and Server Management


 


    Our Storage and Server Management segment focuses on providing
    enterprise customers with storage management, high availability,
    and data protection solutions across heterogeneous storage and
    server platforms. These solutions enable companies to
    standardize on a single layer of infrastructure software that
    works on every major distributed operating system and supports
    every major storage device, database, and application.


 


    Our primary storage and server management solutions address the
    following areas:


 



    Storage
    and Availability Management


 


    These solutions provide file systems, volume management,
    clustering, storage resource management, storage utilization
    management, Storage Area Network management, storage
    virtualization and replication. They also enable enterprises to
    manage large storage environments and ensure the availability of
    critical applications. Products include Veritas CommandCentral
    Storage, Veritas Storage
    Foundationtm,
    and
    Veritastm
    Cluster Server.


 



    Data
    Protection


 


    Symantec’s data protection family of products are designed
    to ensure successful backup and recovery of information and
    systems for organizations ranging from small to large
    enterprises using the latest disk, tape, de-duplication,
    indexing and virtual technologies. Products include Veritas
    NetBackuptm,
    Veritas NetBackup
    PureDisktm,
    Symantec Backup
    Exectm,
    and Symantec Backup Exec System Recovery.


 



    Services


 


    Our Services segment delivers Consulting, Managed, Hosted and
    Education services that complement our products and assist with
    product sales.


 



    Managed
    and Hosted Services


 


    Symantec Managed Services enable customers to place
    resource-intensive IT operations under the management of
    experienced Symantec specialists in order to optimize existing
    resources and focus on strategic IT projects. Symantec Hosted
    Services leverage infrastructure managed in a Symantec
    environment to help customers reduce IT complexity, manage IT
    risk, and to lower cost of operations. Symantec recently
    launched the Symantec Protection Network, a
    software-as-a-service platform that brings a range of
    availability technologies to small to medium-sized



    
    7



Table of Contents




    businesses. Currently two offerings are in the market
    — Symantec Online Backup and Symantec Online Storage
    for Backup Exec.


 



    Consulting
    and Education Services


 


    Symantec Consulting provides product enablement and residency
    services to enable customers to maximize the value of their
    investment in Symantec’s products and solutions. In
    addition, Symantec Consulting provides customers advisory
    services in the areas of security and availability. Education
    Services provides a full range of programs, including technical
    training and security awareness training, to help customers
    optimize their Symantec solutions.


 



    Sales and
    Channel Strategy


 



    Consumer
    Products


 


    We sell our consumer products and services to individuals and
    home offices globally through a multi-tiered network of
    distribution partners. Our strategy is to place our products in
    a variety of channels where consumers might consider purchasing
    security, PC tuneup and backup products.


 


    Our products are available to customers through channels that
    include distributors, retailers, direct marketers,
    Internet-based resellers, OEMs, system builders, educational
    institutions, and ISPs. We separately sell annual content update
    subscriptions directly to end-users primarily through the
    Internet. We also sell some of our products and product upgrades
    in conjunction with channel partners through direct mail/email
    and over the Internet.


 


    Sales in the Consumer Products business through our electronic
    distribution channel, which includes sales derived from OEMs,
    subscriptions, upgrades, online sales, and renewals, grew by
    $174 million in fiscal 2008 over fiscal 2007. During fiscal
    2008, approximately 73 percent of revenue in the Consumer
    Products segment came from our electronic channels.


 



    Enterprise
    Solutions


 


    We sell and market our products and related services to
    enterprise customers both directly and through a variety of
    indirect sales channels, which include value-added resellers, or
    VARs, large account resellers, or LARs, distributors, system
    integrators, or SIs, and OEMs. Our enterprise customers include
    many leading global corporations, small and medium-sized
    businesses, and many government agencies around the world. Some
    of our sales efforts are targeted to senior executives and IT
    department personnel who are responsible for managing a
    company’s IT initiatives.


 


    Our primary method of demand generation for enterprise customers
    is through our direct sales force. We ended fiscal 2008 with
    approximately 9,200 individuals in our sales and services team.
    Account managers are responsible for customer relationships and
    opportunity management and are supported by product and services
    specialists.


 


    We complement our direct sales efforts with indirect sales
    channels such as resellers, VARs, LARs, distributors, and SIs,
    primarily to address the small to medium-sized enterprise
    market. We sell our products through authorized distributors in
    more than 40 countries throughout the world. Our top distributor
    during fiscal 2008 was Ingram Micro, Inc.


 


    Another important element of our Enterprise Solutions strategy
    involves our relationships with OEM partners that incorporate
    our products into their products, bundle our products with their
    products, or serve as authorized resellers of our products.


 



    Marketing
    and Advertising


 


    Our marketing expenditure relates primarily to advertising and
    promotion, which includes demand generation and brand
    recognition of our consumer and enterprise products. Our
    advertising and promotion efforts include, but are not limited
    to, electronic and print advertising, trade shows, collateral
    production, and all forms of direct marketing. We also invest in
    cooperative marketing campaigns with distributors, resellers,
    retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    We invest in various retention marketing and customer loyalty
    programs to help drive renewals and encourage customer advocacy
    and referrals. We also provide focused vertical marketing
    programs in targeted industries and countries.


 


    We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most
    countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and
    promotional rebates to distributors and end-users. Distributors
    and resellers earn volume incentive rebates primarily based upon
    product sales to end-users. We also offer rebates to individual
    users who purchase products through various resale channels.


 


    We regularly offer upgrade rebates to consumers purchasing a new
    version of a product. Both volume incentive rebates and end-user
    rebates are accrued as an offset to revenue.


 



    Support


 


    Symantec has centralized support facilities throughout the world
    that provide rapid, around-the-clock responses to a wide range
    of customer inquiries. We have support facilities with experts
    in technical areas associated with the products we produce and
    the operating environments in which these products are deployed
    by many of our customers. Our technical support experts provide
    customers with information on product implementation and usage,
    issue resolution, and countermeasures and identification tools
    for new threats. Support is available in multiple languages
    including Cantonese, Dutch, English, French, German, Italian,
    Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Portuguese, and Spanish. We believe
    that enhanced language support is an important element of our
    success and plan to continue our investments in the delivery of
    non-English technical support.


 


    Symantec provides customers various levels of enterprise support
    offerings depending on their needs. Business Critical Services,
    our highest level of protection provides personalized, proactive
    support from technical experts for enterprises that require
    secure, uninterrupted access to their data and applications. Our
    enterprise security support program offers annual maintenance
    support contracts to enterprise customers worldwide, including
    content, upgrades, and technical support. Our standard technical
    support includes the following: unlimited hotline service
    delivered by telephone, fax, email, and over the Internet;
    immediate patches for severe problems; and, periodic software
    updates and access to our technical knowledge base and
    frequently asked questions.


 


    Our consumer product support program provides self-help online
    services, phone, chat, and email support to consumers worldwide.
    A team of product experts, editors, and language translators are
    dedicated to maintaining the robustness of the online knowledge
    base. Generally, we use an outside vendor to provide telephone
    product support for a fee. Customers that subscribe to
    LiveUpdate receive automatic downloads of the latest virus
    definitions, application bug fixes, and patches for most of our
    consumer products.


 



    Customers


 


    Our solutions are used worldwide by individual and enterprise
    customers in a wide variety of industries, small, medium and
    large enterprises, as well as various governmental entities. In
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, one distributor, Ingram Micro,
    accounted for 10%, 11% and 13%, respectively, of our total net
    revenues. Our distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist
    of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements
    with its subsidiaries, each of which cover different countries
    or regions. Each of these agreements is separately negotiated
    and is independent of any other contract (such as a master
    distribution agreement), and these agreements are not based on
    the same form of contract. None of these contracts was
    individually responsible for over 10 percent of our total
    net revenues in each of the last three fiscal years. In fiscal
    2008, 2007 and 2006, one reseller, Digital River, accounted for
    11%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of our total net revenues.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process
    research and development associated with acquisitions, were
    $895 million, $867 million, and $682 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. We believe that
    technical leadership is essential to our success and we expect
    to continue to commit substantial resources to research and
    development.



    
    9



Table of Contents




    Symantec embraces a global R&D strategy with teams of
    engineers worldwide focused on product development, pure
    research and on tailoring our products to meet regional
    requirements. Conducting R&D close to our customers ensures
    that we have intimate knowledge of the markets we serve and a
    better link between our customers and our labs. Symantec strives
    to maintain long-term technological leadership by nurturing
    innovation, generating new ideas and developing next-generation
    technologies across all of our business.


 


    Symantec Research Labs is a group designed to foster new
    technologies and products to help us maintain leadership in
    existing markets. The team focuses on short, medium, and
    long-term applied research, develops new products in emerging
    areas, participates in government-funded research projects, and
    partners with universities to conduct research to support
    Symantec’s needs.


 


    Our Security Response experts, located at research centers
    throughout the world, are focused on collecting and analyzing
    the latest malware threats, ranging from network security
    threats and vulnerabilities to viruses and worms. All this data
    is collected through our Symantec Global Intelligence Network,
    which provides insight into emerging trends in attacks,
    malicious code activity, phishing, spam, and other threats. The
    Security Response team is also focused on developing new
    technologies and approaches to protecting customers’
    information and systems.


 


    Independent contractors are used for various aspects of the
    product development process. In addition, elements of some of
    our products are licensed from third parties.


 



    Acquisitions


 


    Our strategic technology acquisitions are designed to enhance
    the features and functionality of our existing products, as well
    as extend our product leadership. We use strategic acquisitions
    to provide certain technology, people, and products for our
    overall product and services strategy. We consider both time to
    market and potential market share gains when evaluating
    acquisitions of technologies, product lines, or companies. We
    have completed a number of acquisitions of technologies,
    companies, and products in the past, and we have also disposed
    of technologies and products. We may acquire
    and/or
    dispose of other technologies, products and companies in the
    future.


 


    During fiscal 2008, we completed the following acquisitions:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Company Name



 



    Company Description



 



    Date Acquired




 





    Altiris Inc.



 


    A provider of information technology management software that
    enables businesses to easily manage and service network-based
    endpoints.


 


    April 6, 2007





    Vontu, Inc.



 


    A provider of Data Loss Prevention (DLP) solutions that assist
    organizations in preventing the loss of confidential or
    proprietary information.


 


    November 30, 2007





    Transparent Logic Technologies, Inc.



 


    A provider of products that support business process automation
    and workflow.


 


    January 11, 2008








 


    In addition, on April 18, 2008, we acquired AppStream Inc.,
    a provider of application streaming technology, an on-demand
    delivery mechanism that leverages the power of application
    virtualization to enable greater flexibility and control.


 


    For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Notes 4 and
    20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this
    annual report.


 



    Competition


 


    Our markets are consolidating, are highly competitive, and are
    subject to rapid changes in technology. We are focused on
    integrating next generation technology capabilities into our
    solution set in order to differentiate ourselves from the
    competition. We believe that the principal competitive factors
    necessary to be successful in our industry also include, time to
    market, price, reputation, financial stability, breadth of
    product offerings, customer support, brand recognition, and
    effective sales and marketing efforts.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors,
    we face indirect or potential competition from retail,
    application providers, operating system providers, network
    equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs, who may provide various
    solutions and functions in their current and future products. We
    also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for
    the attention of customers at the retail level and in corporate
    accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies,
    operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers and
    other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and
    to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete
    with other software companies in our effort to place our
    products on the computer equipment sold to consumers by OEMs.


 


    The competitive environments in which each segment operates are
    described below.


 



    Consumer
    Products


 


    Some of the channels in which our consumer products are offered
    are highly competitive. Our competitors are sometimes intensely
    focused on customer acquisition, which has led such competitors
    to offer their technology for free, engage in aggressive
    marketing, or enter into competitive partnerships.


 


    Our primary competitors in the Consumer Products segment are
    McAfee, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, and Trend Micro Inc. There
    are also several smaller regional security companies that we
    compete against primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions.


 



    Security
    and Compliance


 


    In the security and compliance markets, we compete against many
    companies that offer competing products to our technology
    solutions and competing services to our response and support
    services. Our primary competitors in the security market are
    Cisco Systems, Inc., McAfee, Microsoft, and Trend Micro. There
    are also several smaller regional security companies that we
    compete against primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions.


 



    Storage
    and Server Management


 


    The markets for storage and server management are intensely
    competitive. In the areas of data protection and storage and
    server management, our primary competitors are CA Inc.,
    CommVault Systems, Inc., EMC, Inc., Hewlett-Packard Co., IBM
    Corp., Microsoft, Oracle Corp., and Sun Microsystems, Inc.


 



    Services


 


    We believe that the principal competitive factors for our
    services segment include technical capability, customer
    responsiveness, and our ability to hire and retain talented and
    experienced services personnel. Our primary competitors in the
    services segment are EMC, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and regional
    specialized consulting firms. In the managed security services
    business, our primary competitors are IBM and VeriSign, Inc.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 



    Protective
    Measures


 


    We regard some of the features of our internal operations,
    software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on
    copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other
    measures to protect our proprietary information. Our
    intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that
    enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and
    technology and enhance our competitive position.


 


    As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter
    into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors,
    and corporate partners, and we enter into license agreements
    with respect to our software, documentation, and other
    proprietary information. These license agreements are generally
    non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also educate our
    employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to
    protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Trademarks,
    Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses


 


    Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered
    trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to
    Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered,
    and/or
    applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks
    to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services
    from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign
    countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service
    mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The
    duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to
    country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain
    our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for
    as long as the trademarks are in use.


 


    We have a number of U.S. and foreign issued patents and
    pending patent applications, including patents and rights to
    patent applications acquired through strategic transactions,
    which relate to various aspects of our products and technology.
    The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the
    country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically
    17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or
    20 years from the date of filing of the patent application
    resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative
    to the expected lives of our products.


 


    Our products are protected under U.S. and international
    copyright laws and laws related to the protection of
    intellectual property and proprietary information. We take
    measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary
    rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the
    U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide
    sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may
    be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual
    property from third parties for use in our products, and
    generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed
    intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability
    to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is
    important to our success, we also believe that our business as a
    whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent,
    trademark, license, or other intellectual property right.


 



    Seasonality


 


    As is typical for many large software companies, our business is
    seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally
    higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our
    first and second fiscal quarters. A significant decline in
    license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter
    of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders
    in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we
    generally receive a higher volume of software license and
    maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders
    concentrated in the later part of that month. We believe that
    this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns
    and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation
    incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally
    reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than
    orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is
    shipped or services are performed and other revenue recognition
    criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our
    in-period revenue is provided by the ratable recognition of our
    deferred revenue balance.


 



    Employees


 


    As of March 28, 2008, we employed more than
    17,600 people worldwide, approximately 53 percent of
    whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,200 employees
    work in sales and marketing; 5,200 in research and development;
    3,900 in support and services; and 2,300 in management,
    manufacturing, and administration.


 



    Other
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.symantec.com. We make
    available free of charge on our website our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, or SEC. Other than the information expressly set
    forth in this annual report, the information contained, or
    referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report.


 


    The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC
    20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the
    Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov 



    
    12



Table of Contents




    that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
    other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file
    electronically with the SEC.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    A description of the risk factors associated with our business
    is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive and you should
    carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before
    investing in our common stock.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services
    that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable
    to continually improve the performance, features, and
    reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our
    business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business
    and operating results could be adversely affected.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the
    rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or
    introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a
    timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and will continue to
    incur, significant research and development expenses as we
    strive to remain competitive. New product development and
    introduction involves a significant commitment of time and
    resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Managing the length of the development cycle for new products
    and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than
    we originally expected




 



     
        • 

    
    Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to
    technological developments by our competitors and customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Extending the operation of our products and services to new
    platforms and operating systems




 



     
        • 

    
    Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited
    experience




 



     
        • 

    
    Managing new product and service strategies, including
    integrating our various security and storage technologies,
    management solutions, customer service, and support into unified
    enterprise security and storage solutions




 



     
        • 

    
    Incorporating acquired products and technologies




 



     
        • 

    
    Trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new
    products




 



     
        • 

    
    Developing or expanding efficient sales channels




 



     
        • 

    
    Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access
    from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to
    enable the development and deployment of interoperable products,
    including source code licenses for certain products with deep
    technical integration into operating systems





 


    In addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace
    with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted.
    In connection with our enterprise software offerings, we license
    our applications on a variety of bases, such as per server, per
    processor, or based on performance criteria such as per amount
    of data processed or stored. If enterprises continue to migrate
    towards solutions, such as virtualization, which allow
    enterprises to run multiple applications and operating systems
    on a single server and thereby reduce the number of servers they
    are required to own and operate, we may experience lower license
    revenues unless we are able to successfully change our
    enterprise licensing model or sell additional software to take
    into account the impact of these new solutions.


 


    If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges,
    or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not
    technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance,
    our business and operating results could be adversely affected.


 



    Fluctuations
    in demand for our products and services are driven by many
    factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could
    adversely affect our financial results.


 


    We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and
    services due to a variety of factors, including general economic
    conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological
    change, shifts in buying patterns



    
    13



Table of Contents




    and budget constraints of our actual and potential customers,
    levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to IT
    systems, and other factors. While such factors may, in some
    periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also
    negatively impact our product sales. If demand for our products
    declines, our revenues and gross margin could be adversely
    affected. For example, if the challenging economic conditions in
    the United States or other key markets continue or deteriorate
    further, we may experience slower or negative revenue growth and
    our business and operating results might suffer.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors
    may gain market share in the markets for our products that could
    adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to
    decline.


 


    We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate
    or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new
    competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our
    competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop
    in revenue that could adversely affect our business and
    operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain a
    successful research and development effort to develop new
    products and services and enhance existing products and
    services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or
    product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to
    competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological
    changes and changes in the ways that our information is
    accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer
    markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors
    or to changing technological and customer demands, we could
    experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our
    financial results.


 


    Our traditional competitors include independent software vendors
    that offer software products that directly compete with our
    product offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors
    directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with
    them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the
    product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer
    hardware OEMs and ISPs. Our competitors could gain market share
    from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products
    with the products of our competitors or if they more actively
    promote our competitors’ products than our products. In
    addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with
    theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or
    other vendors’ software or may limit our access to standard
    product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products
    for their platform.


 


    We face growing competition from network equipment and computer
    hardware manufacturers and large operating system providers.
    These firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into
    their products data protection and storage and server management
    software that competes at some levels with our product
    offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected
    to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality
    incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our
    products.


 


    Another growing industry trend is the software-as-a-service
    (“SaaS”) business model, whereby software vendors
    develop and host their applications for use by customers over
    the Internet. This allows enterprises to obtain the benefits of
    commercially licensed, internally operated software without the
    associated complexity or high initial
    set-up and
    operational costs. Advances in the SaaS business model could
    enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the
    success of our traditional software licensing models. We have
    recently released our own SaaS offerings. However, it is
    uncertain whether our SaaS strategy will prove successful or
    whether we will be able to successfully incorporate our SaaS
    offering into our current licensing models. Our inability to
    successfully develop and market SaaS product offerings could
    cause us to lose business to competitors.


 


    Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical,
    sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently
    may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their
    products instead of ours. We also face competition from many
    smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the
    markets in which we compete.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    If we
    fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively
    or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to
    their customers, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    We sell our products to customers around the world through
    multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. Sales through
    these different channels involve distinct risks, including the
    following:


 


    Direct Sales.  A significant portion of our
    revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our
    direct sales force to end-users. Special risks associated with
    this sales channel include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales
    force




 



     
        • 

    
    Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to
    become productive, including regular updates to cover new and
    revised products





 


    Indirect Sales Channels.  A significant portion
    of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels,
    including distributors that sell our products to end-users and
    other resellers. This channel involves a number of risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products
    to end-users




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally
    nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute
    competing products and may, from time to time, place greater
    emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing,
    promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors





 


    OEM Sales Channels.  A significant portion of
    our revenues is derived from sales through our OEM partners that
    incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with,
    their products. Our reliance on this sales channel involves many
    risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the shipping dates or volume of systems
    shipped




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners are generally not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements
    with us and new terms may be less favorable due, among other
    things, to an increasingly competitive relationship with certain
    partners




 



     
        • 

    
    Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in
    strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that
    could result in reduction of OEM sales




 



     
        • 

    
    The development work that we must generally undertake under our
    agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest
    significant resources and incur significant costs with little or
    no associated revenues




 



     
        • 

    
    The time and expense required for the sales and marketing
    organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our
    products may make it more difficult to introduce those products
    to the market




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own
    products and market and distribute products of our competitors,
    which could reduce our sales





 


    If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels
    successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or
    otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce
    our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our
    competitive position. Some of our distribution partners have
    experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our
    partners suffer financial difficulties in the future, we may
    have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could
    adversely affect our operating results. In addition, reliance on
    multiple channels subjects us to



    
    15



Table of Contents




    events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could
    increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for
    the future, and could result in adverse operating results in
    future periods.


 



    We
    have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that
    give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect
    our future financial results.


 


    We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the
    future, other businesses, business units, and technologies.
    Acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and
    challenges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of
    acquired business operations, workforce, products, and
    technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee
    base, product lines, and technology




 



     
        • 

    
    Diversion of management time and attention from our existing
    business and other business opportunities




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated
    with the termination or replacement of those employees




 



     
        • 

    
    Assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired
    business, including litigation related to the acquired business




 



     
        • 

    
    The addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased
    expenses and working capital requirements




 



     
        • 

    
    Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders




 



     
        • 

    
    Increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act




 



     
        • 

    
    Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related
    expenses, write-off of in-process research and development,
    impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and
    stock-based compensation expense





 


    Integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be
    a complex, time consuming, and expensive process, and can impact
    the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting.


 


    If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we
    may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or
    undergo other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee.
    To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our
    technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and
    manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must
    effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired
    business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various
    interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no
    or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have
    stronger market positions.


 


    Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability
    to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired
    businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of
    acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of high
    technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be
    given that our previous or future acquisitions will be
    successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating
    results, or financial condition.


 



    We
    have not historically maintained substantial levels of
    indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of
    operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively
    manage our liabilities.


 


    In June 2006, we sold $2.1 billion in aggregate principal
    amount of convertible senior notes. As a result of the sale of
    the notes, we have a substantially greater amount of long term
    debt than we have maintained in the past. In addition, we have
    entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of
    $1 billion and we borrowed $200 million under the
    facility in November 2007 to fund a portion of the purchase
    price of our acquisition of Vontu, Inc. Our credit facility
    allows us immediate access to an additional $800 million of
    domestic funds if we identify opportunities for its use. From
    time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in
    addition to the amount available under our credit facility. Our
    maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect
    our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate
    opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition
    and results of operations.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    Our
    international operations involve risks that could increase our
    expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require
    increased time and attention of our management.


 


    We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers
    located outside of the U.S. and we have significant
    operations outside of the U.S., including engineering, sales,
    customer support, and production. We plan to expand our
    international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon
    the financial performance of our existing international
    operations as well as our identification of growth
    opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks
    in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of proprietary information due to
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. laws




 



     
        • 

    
    Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls,
    including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that
    reduce the flexibility of our business operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of
    encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the
    acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks
    for secure communications




 



     
        • 

    
    Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in
    international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the
    U.S.




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability
    such as higher interest rates in the U.S. and inflation
    that could reduce our customers’ ability to obtain
    financing for software products or that could make our products
    more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in
    certain countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current
    levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest
    sufficiently in our international operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and
    difficulties in collecting accounts receivable




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our
    international operations, including difficulties related to
    administering our stock plans in some foreign countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our
    geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in
    Europe and in other periods in other countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Reduced sales due to the failure to obtain any required export
    approval of our technologies, particularly our encryption
    technologies




 



     
        • 

    
    Costs and delays associated with developing software in multiple
    languages




 



     
        • 

    
    Political unrest, war, or terrorism, particularly in areas in
    which we have facilities





 


    A significant portion of our transactions outside of the
    U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly,
    our future operating results will continue to be subject to
    fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We may be negatively
    affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the
    future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a
    percentage of our total sales.


 


    The level of corporate tax from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers
    is less than the level of tax from sales to our
    U.S. customers. This benefit is contingent upon existing
    tax regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which
    our international operations are located. Future changes in
    domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect
    our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits.


 



    Our
    products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer
    configurations, which could result in errors or product
    failures.


 


    Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors,
    failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first
    introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are
    often installed and used in large-scale computing environments
    with different operating systems, system management software,
    and equipment and



    
    17



Table of Contents




    networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in
    our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs
    in our products. Our customers’ computing environments are
    often characterized by a wide variety of standard and
    non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for
    programming or compatibility errors very difficult and
    time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us and others,
    errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or
    releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. In
    the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs
    in certain of our product offerings after their introduction
    and, in some cases, may have experienced delayed or lost
    revenues as a result of these errors.


 


    Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could
    result in negative publicity, product returns, loss of or delay
    in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive
    position, or claims by customers or others. Many of our end-user
    customers use our products in applications that are critical to
    their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects
    in our products than to defects in other, less critical,
    software products. In addition, if an actual or perceived breach
    of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our
    end-user customer’s systems, regardless of whether the
    breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of
    the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. Alleviating
    any of these problems could require significant expenditures of
    our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions,
    delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause
    us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely
    affect our operating results.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key
    personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully,
    or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be
    unable to develop new and enhanced products and services,
    effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our
    revenues.


 


    Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and
    retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance,
    and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key
    personnel are
    employees-at-will,
    and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
    Competition for people with the specific skills that we require
    is significant. In order to attract and retain personnel in a
    competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a
    competitive compensation package, including cash and
    equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may
    from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or
    retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain
    required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number
    of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation
    plans, and recent changes in accounting rules require us to
    treat the issuance of employee stock options and other forms of
    equity-based compensation as compensation expense. As a result,
    we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be
    impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary
    personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified
    employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee
    performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market
    conditions, our business and operating results could be
    adversely affected.


 


    Key personnel have left our company in the past and there likely
    will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time
    in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in
    significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely
    affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful
    implementation and completion of company initiatives, the
    effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our
    internal control over financial reporting, and the results of
    our operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully
    integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time
    consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations,
    and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future
    revenues.


 



    We are
    a party to several class action lawsuits, which could require
    significant management time and attention and result in
    significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined
    favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition,
    results of operations, and cash flows.


 


    We have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we
    may be named in additional litigation. The expense of defending
    such litigation may be costly and divert management’s
    attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which
    could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and
    cash flows. In addition, an unfavorable outcome in such
    litigation could negatively impact our business, results of
    operations, and cash flows.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Third
    parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could
    cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from
    selling our products.


 


    From time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the
    intellectual property rights of others, including claims
    regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. In addition,
    former employers of our former, current, or future employees may
    assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to
    us the confidential or proprietary information of these former
    employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result
    in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day
    operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims,
    we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or
    redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter
    into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy
    indemnification obligations that we have with some of our
    customers. We cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing
    arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.


 


    In addition, we license and use software from third parties in
    our business. These third party software licenses may not
    continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all,
    and may expose us to additional liability. This liability, or
    our inability to use any of this third party software, could
    result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business
    that could materially and adversely affect our operating results.


 



    If we
    do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third
    parties from making unauthorized use of our products and
    technology, our financial results could be harmed.


 


    Most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary.
    We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination
    of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through
    copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. However,
    all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be
    challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. Third
    parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise
    obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information
    without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or
    superior technology independently by designing around our
    patents. Our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by
    licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of
    some jurisdictions. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign
    countries do not offer the same level of protection of our
    proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be
    subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries.
    The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary
    information could result in reduced sales of our products. Any
    legal action to protect proprietary information that we may
    bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could
    adversely affect our ability to access software, operating
    system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or
    cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products
    to their customers. In addition, any legal action to protect
    proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in,
    alone or through our alliances with the Business Software
    Alliance (“BSA”), or the Software &
    Information Industry Association (SIIA), could be costly, may
    distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to
    additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 



    Some
    of our products contain “open source” software, and
    any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these
    open source licenses could negatively affect our
    business.


 


    Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed
    by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open
    source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the
    GNU General Public License (GPL), GNU Lesser General Public
    License (LGPL), the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License, and
    the Apache License. Some of these licenses contain requirements
    that we make available source code for modifications or
    derivative works we create based upon the open source software,
    and that we license such modifications or derivative works under
    the terms of a particular open source license or other license
    granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we
    combine our proprietary software with open source software in a
    certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source
    licenses, be required to release the source code of our
    proprietary software. In addition to risks related to license
    requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater
    risks than use of third party commercial software, as open
    source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls
    on origin of the software. We have established processes to help
    alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening
    requests from our development organizations for the use of open
    source, but we cannot be sure that all



    
    19



Table of Contents




    open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our
    products. In addition, many of the risks associated with usage
    of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly
    addressed, negatively affect our business.


 



    Our
    software products and website may be subject to intentional
    disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future
    sales.


 


    Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to
    prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing
    target of attacks specifically designed to impede the
    performance of our products. Similarly, experienced computer
    programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the
    security of our website and misappropriate proprietary
    information or cause interruptions of our services. Because the
    techniques used by such computer programmers to access or
    sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized
    until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate
    these techniques. Our activities could be adversely affected and
    our reputation and future sales harmed if these intentionally
    disruptive efforts are successful.


 



    Increased
    customer demands on our technical support services may adversely
    affect our relationships with our customers and our financial
    results.


 


    We offer technical support services with many of our products.
    We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate
    short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We
    also may be unable to modify the format of our support services
    to compete with changes in support services provided by
    competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers.
    Further customer demand for these services, without
    corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    We have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide
    consumer support functions to third party service providers. If
    these companies experience financial difficulties, do not
    maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy
    our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient
    level under these contracts, the level of support services to
    our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could
    materially harm our relationships with these customers.


 



    Accounting
    charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial
    results.


 


    Our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to
    be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other
    accounting charges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product
    rights




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of goodwill




 



     
        • 

    
    Stock-based compensation expense




 



     
        • 

    
    Restructuring charges




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of long-lived assets




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets
    held for sale





 


    For example, in connection with our acquisition of Veritas, we
    have recorded approximately $2.8 billion of acquired
    product rights and other intangible assets and $8.6 billion
    of goodwill. We have recorded and will continue to record future
    amortization charges with respect to a portion of these
    intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense related
    to the stock options to purchase Veritas common stock assumed by
    us. In addition, we will evaluate our long-lived assets,
    including property and equipment, goodwill, acquired product
    rights, and other intangible assets, whenever events or
    circumstances occur which indicate that these assets might be
    impaired. Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment in the
    fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events
    and circumstances warrant, and our evaluation depends to a large
    degree on estimates and assumptions made by our management. Our
    assessment of any impairment of goodwill is based on a
    comparison of the fair value of each of our reporting units to
    the carrying value of that reporting unit. Our determination of
    fair value relies on management’s assumptions of our future
    revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. If
    management’s estimates of future operating results change,
    or if there are changes to other assumptions such as the
    discount rate



    
    20



Table of Contents




    applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair
    value of our reporting units could change significantly, which
    could result in a goodwill impairment charge.


 


    The foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred
    in connection with or as a result of other business
    acquisitions. The price of our common stock could decline to the
    extent that our financial results are materially affected by the
    foregoing accounting charges.


 



    Our
    effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income
    tax expense and reduce our net income.


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income
    before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate
    that have differing statutory tax rates




 



     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple
    jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of
    certain tax rulings




 



     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods




 



     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place.





 


    The price of our common stock could decline if our financial
    results are materially affected by an adverse change in our
    effective tax rate.


 


    We report our results of operations based on our determinations
    of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in
    which we operate. From time to time, we receive notices that a
    tax authority to which we are subject has determined that we owe
    a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority,
    and we are regularly engaged in discussions, and sometimes
    disputes, with these tax authorities. We are engaged in disputes
    of this nature at this time. If the ultimate determination of
    our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in
    excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for,
    our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could
    be adversely affected.


 



    Fluctuations
    in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of
    our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in
    the future.


 


    Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and
    are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number
    of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which
    could adversely affect our operations and operating results. If
    our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future
    financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively
    affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may
    make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or
    pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our
    operating results for prior periods may not be effective
    predictors of our future performance.


 


    Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our
    business, and the markets for our products may cause our
    quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Reduced demand for any of our products




 



     
        • 

    
    Entry of new competition into our markets




 



     
        • 

    
    Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of
    products




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced
    versions of our products




 



     
        • 

    
    The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms
    and viruses)




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases
    near the end of each quarter






    
    21



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Enterprise customers’ tendency to negotiate site licenses
    near the end of each quarter




 



     
        • 

    
    Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates




 



     
        • 

    
    Movement in interest rates




 



     
        • 

    
    The rate of adoption of new product technologies and new
    releases of operating systems




 



     
        • 

    
    Weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry
    conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate
    that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our
    products and services




 



     
        • 

    
    Political and military instability, which could slow spending
    within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise
    adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate
    effectively




 



     
        • 

    
    Budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by
    corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending
    objectives




 



     
        • 

    
    Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused
    by, among other things,





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our
    headquarters located in Silicon Valley, California, an area
    known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of war or terrorism




 



     
        • 

    
    Intentional disruptions by third parties




 



     
        • 

    
    Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic





 


    Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of
    our common stock to fluctuate significantly.


 



    Our
    stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose
    the value of your investment.


 


    The market price of our common stock has experienced significant
    fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the
    future, and as a result you could lose the value of your
    investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected
    by a number of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and
    earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with
    our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or
    securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail
    to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the
    expectations of our investors or securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our or our
    competitors’ operations, management, organization,
    financial condition, or financial statements




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors,
    or securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment
    of goodwill




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or
    by our competitors




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors,
    or our customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Gain or loss of a significant customer




 



     
        • 

    
    Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or
    emergency situations




 



     
        • 

    
    Economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic
    slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate






    
    22



Table of Contents



 


    The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of
    technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme
    price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue
    to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for
    reasons unrelated to our business or operating results.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B