Item 1A, Risk Factors. We encourage you to read that
    section carefully.




    
    3



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    Overview


 


    Symantec is a global provider of security, storage, and systems
    management solutions that help businesses and consumers secure
    and manage their information and identities. We conduct our
    business in three geographic regions: Americas, which is
    comprised of the United States, Canada, and Latin America;
    Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); and Asia
    Pacific Japan (“APJ”).


 


    Founded in 1982, Symantec has operations in more than 48
    countries and our principal executive offices are located at 350
    Ellis Street, Mountain View, California, 94043. Our telephone
    number at that location is
    (650) 527-8000.
    Our home page on the Internet is www.symantec.com. Other
    than the information expressly set forth in this annual report,
    the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not
    part of this annual report.


 



    Strategy


 


    Symantec’s strategy is to enable our customers to secure
    and manage information and identities independent of device or
    platform. We help individuals, small and medium-sized businesses
    (“SMB”), and global organizations ensure that their
    information, technology infrastructures, and related processes
    are protected and managed easily. We deliver solutions that
    allow customers to access information when they need it and make
    it available to all of those who should have access to it. In
    addition to providing customers with traditional software
    solutions, we continue to expand our Software-as-a-Service
    (“SaaS”) and appliance based offerings, giving
    customers’ choice as to how our solutions are delivered and
    deployed.


 


    Businesses are increasingly adopting cloud, virtualization, and
    mobile technologies to reduce the cost of their IT
    infrastructures and enhance access to their information. By
    providing products and solutions that support the adoption of
    these key technology trends, we are seeking to maintain our
    leadership position in helping businesses secure and mange their
    information and identities. We have a broad portfolio of cloud
    based solutions and services, from SaaS security to
    authentication services and online backup to cloud
    infrastructure management. These products help organizations
    lower costs and simplify IT administration, while keeping their
    information and identities secure. Organizations are adopting
    virtualization to reduce costs, enhance flexibility and build
    public and private cloud infrastructures. As a result, their
    environments are becoming more complex and essential
    applications and data may be left vulnerable to attack. Our
    solutions help these organizations secure, manage and optimize
    their virtual environments from the datacenter to the endpoint.
    More and more mobile devices are being used both at work and at
    home creating new security and management challenges. Our
    solutions manage and protect mobile devices by enforcing data
    governance, increasing visibility across all mobile platforms
    and securing data for both consumers and enterprises. We are
    focused on providing consumers the best online experience that
    allows them access to information anytime, anywhere and from any
    device. Our consumer solutions take security beyond the PC and
    extend trust to new devices and consumer applications, spanning
    across mobile, smart devices, and embedded systems.


 


    We operate primarily in three diversified markets within the
    software sector: security, backup and storage management.


 


    The security market includes mission-critical products that
    protect consumers and enterprises from threats to electronic
    information, endpoint devices, and computer networks. The threat
    environment is rapidly changing. Attackers have become highly
    sophisticated, primarily targeting information assets. Threats
    are increasingly focused on stealing confidential information
    and identities for financial gain. The Internet has become the
    primary conduit for attack activity, with hackers increasingly
    funneling threats through legitimate websites, placing a much
    larger percentage of the population at risk than in the past.
    Data losses are not realized solely from external attacks but
    are also administered by malicious, or even well-meaning,
    insiders. Proliferation of devices and information growth is
    driving the need for a more comprehensive security framework
    that protects information and authenticates users across
    multiple platforms and devices.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    The backup software market includes products that manage,
    protect, deduplicate and recover information. Effective backup
    and recovery continue to be high priority matters as
    organizations seek to better manage information growth and
    maximize operational efficiency in both physical and virtual
    environments. Enterprises are continuing to transition from tape
    to disk-based backup. To deal with the unprecedented rate of
    information growth, organizations are increasingly adopting data
    deduplication technology, a data compression technique that
    eliminates redundancies in data storage. Consumers are also
    creating unprecedented amounts of digital information that they
    want to protect. They also want to access their personal files,
    videos and pictures at any time, from anywhere and on any device.


 


    The storage management software market includes products that
    help organizations manage heterogeneous storage infrastructure
    and run mission critical applications with confidence. Factors
    driving demand in this market include the pressure on companies
    to lower costs by optimizing storage utilization and
    accelerating cloud and virtualization adoption while keeping
    critical applications continuously available. Our new storage
    management initiatives help customers provide high-performance,
    low-cost storage in a virtualized environment.


 



    Business
    Developments and Highlights


 


    During fiscal 2011, we took the following actions in support of
    our business:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our new consumer eCommerce platform completed its first year of
    operations and now serves customers in 230 countries, and
    supports 18 languages and 24 currencies. The benefits of an
    in-house eCommerce capability include building a closer
    relationship with our customers and enabling greater speed to
    take advantage of market trends. The ability to develop more
    targeted programs with our eCommerce platform is allowing us to
    achieve higher levels of customer renewals, better acquire new
    customers, and facilitate our up-selling and cross-selling
    efforts in our Consumer business.




 



     
        • 

    
    We launched several new products and initiatives to extend our
    security leadership beyond the PC. In the consumer business, we
    launched our Norton Everywhere initiative for mobile and
    embedded devices. In the enterprise business we now offer
    solutions to manage and protect mobile devices. These solutions
    help customers enforce data governance, secure corporate data
    and increase visibility across mobile platforms.




 



     
        • 

    
    We completed three acquisitions during fiscal 2011. We acquired
    the identity and authentication business of VeriSign, Inc.
    (“VeriSign”). We also acquired PGP Corporation
    (“PGP”) and GuardianEdge Technologies, Inc.
    (“GuardianEdge”), two privately-held industry leaders
    in encryption technologies. These authentication and encryption
    capabilities have strengthened our leadership position in
    security and have enhanced our ability to make data protection
    more intelligent and policy driven. We have made great strides
    in effectively integrating these acquired technologies and
    leveraging our distribution network to grow these businesses.




 



     
        • 

    
    We made important advances to help customers migrate to
    next-generation information management as they transition from
    tape to disk-based backup and manage the unprecedented growth of
    unstructured information. These advances include integrating
    deduplication and archiving into our backup solutions. In
    addition, we developed and enhanced products that support VMware
    and Microsoft Hyper-V virtualization technologies and allow
    customers to reduce management complexity and operational costs
    in their virtual environments. We also launched backup
    appliances with an easy to deploy,
    all-in-one
    hardware and software backup solution with integrated
    deduplication.




 



     
        • 

    
    In the storage management business, we launched Application High
    Availability (“AppHA”) and VirtualStore which were
    developed with the support of VMware. AppHA helps organizations
    virtualize their business critical applications and VirtualStore
    provides high-performance, low-cost storage for desktop and
    server virtualization deployments. In addition, we released our
    FileStore appliance, a clustered network attached storage
    (“NAS”) appliance that helps customers build out cloud
    storage, manage large volumes of data, and control storage costs.




 



     
        • 

    
    We expanded our cloud-based offerings with the release of
    Symantec Endpoint Protection.cloud, our internally developed
    hosted endpoint protection service. We will seek to extend our
    lead in this fast growth market by delivering additional SaaS
    services such as archiving, data loss prevention and governance
    offerings.







    
    5



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We raised $1.1 billion from the issuance of senior
    unsecured notes. We also renewed our $1 billion revolving
    line of credit, extending its term for another four years.




 



     
        • 

    
    We repurchased 57 million shares of our common stock for an
    aggregate amount of $870 million.





 



    Operating
    Segments and Products


 


    Our operating segments are strategic business units that offer
    different products and services, distinguished by customer
    needs. We have five operating segments: Consumer, Security and
    Compliance, Storage and Server Management, Services, and Other.


 



    Consumer


 


    Our Consumer segment helps consumers deal with increasingly
    complex threats, the proliferation of mobile devices, the need
    for identity protection, and the rapid increase of digital
    consumer data, such as photos, music, and video. For individual
    users and home offices, we offer premium, full-featured security
    suites as well as related services such as online backup, family
    safety, and PC
    tune-up.


 


    We continue to acquire customers through a diversified channel
    strategy. We retain and leverage our large customer base through
    auto-renewal subscriptions, and seek to migrate customers from
    point products to multi-product suites, and cross-selling
    additional products or services. Under our Norton brand we also
    provide a variety of free tools and services that offer
    consumers added value and provide an opportunity to begin a
    relationship and ongoing communication with them.


 


    Our award-winning Norton 2011 products include our innovative
    reputation-based security, a technology that provides real-time
    threat detection. Our online backup offering serves
    13 million customers and hosts more than 68 petabytes of
    consumers’ data. In fiscal year 2011, we introduced our
    Norton Everywhere initiative to take Norton beyond the PC by
    delivering protection across locations, devices and digital
    experiences. Our primary consumer products include: Norton 360,
    Norton Internet Security, Norton AntiVirus, Norton Online
    Backup, Norton Live Services and our newly released Norton
    Mobile Security.


 



    Security
    and Compliance


 


    Our Security and Compliance segment helps our enterprise
    customers standardize, automate, and reduce the costs of
    day-to-day
    security activities in order to secure and manage their
    information and identities. We offer security suite solutions
    that tie together multiple layers of protection and simplify
    management. Our primary solutions in this segment address the
    following areas:


 



    Infrastructure
    Protection


 


    We provide solutions that allow customers to secure their
    endpoints, messaging and Web environments in addition to
    defending critical servers and implementing the ability to back
    up and recover data. Organizations are also provided the
    visibility and security intelligence needed to identify when
    they’re under attack so that they can respond rapidly.
    Products include: Protection Suites, Endpoint Protection for
    enterprise and small business, and Mail Gateway.


 



    Information
    Protection


 


    We help businesses proactively protect their information by
    taking a content-aware approach. This includes enabling
    businesses to identify the owners of specific information,
    locate sensitive information and identify those with access to
    it, and encrypt sensitive information as it is entering or
    leaving an organization. Products include: Data Loss Prevention,
    Whole Disk Encryption and Endpoint Encryption.


 



    Authentication
    Services


 


    We provide the ability to authenticate identities, allowing
    businesses to ensure that only authorized personnel have access
    to information and systems. Authentication services also enable
    organizations to protect public facing





    
    6



Table of Contents





    assets by ensuring the true identity of a device, system, or
    application and use Secure Socket Layers (“SSL”) to
    encrypt data in transit. Products include: VeriSign SSL,
    VeriSign Identity Protection (“VIP”), and VeriSign PKI
    Services.


 



    Compliance


 


    Our compliance and risk management solutions allow customers to
    develop and enforce IT policies, automate IT risk management
    processes and demonstrate compliance with industry standards and
    regulations. Our integrated and automated suite allows
    organizations to take a more proactive approach to IT risk and
    compliance management, enabling them to understand their key
    risks, enforce desired policies, efficiently identify gaps, and
    drive focused remediation activities to ensure the best outcomes
    for their organizations. Products include our Control Compliance
    Suite.


 



    Systems
    Management


 


    Our systems management capabilities help IT organizations
    provide faster and more predictable service to their businesses.
    Our integrated solutions ensure that organizations’
    management infrastructures can easily support new technology
    changes, can quickly adapt to changing processes and business
    needs, and can provide the necessary insight to make more
    intelligent, data-driven decisions. Products include: IT
    Management Suite, Mobile Management, and Endpoint Virtualization.


 



    Software-as-a-
    Service


 


    Our SaaS offerings provide customers the flexibility to manage
    their business requirements using hosted services.
    Symantec.cloud, our SaaS brand, enables customers to increase
    their messaging and web protection by blocking email, web and IM
    threats before they reach the network. Services include: Email
    Security.cloud, Web Security.cloud and Symantec Endpoint
    Protection.cloud.


 



    Storage
    and Server Management


 


    Our Storage and Server Management segment consists of
    information management and storage management solutions. Our
    offerings enable companies to standardize on a single layer of
    infrastructure software and work on all major distributed
    operating systems and support storage devices, databases, and
    applications in both physical and virtual environments.


 



    Information
    Management


 


    Our Information Management business, which includes backup and
    archiving, is driven by the rapid growth of information, data
    duplication, virtual environments, management inefficiencies,
    and legal
    e-discovery
    needs. We help SMB and enterprise organizations protect
    themselves by bringing together archiving, deduplication,
    virtualization, and backup functionality into a fully integrated
    solution. With our solutions, customers can back up and
    deduplicate data closer to information sources to reduce storage
    consumption. In addition, our offerings archive and enable a
    compliant and litigation-ready information infrastructure.
    Products include: NetBackup, Backup Exec, and Enterprise Vault.


 



    Storage
    Management and High Availability


 


    Our Storage Management and High Availability business is driven
    by our customers’ need to reduce overall storage costs
    through improved utilization of existing systems,
    virtualization, and cloud infrastructure offerings. Our products
    help customers simplify their data centers by standardizing
    storage management across their environment for more efficient
    and effective use of their existing storage investments. With
    our solutions, customers can build scalable, high-performance
    file-based storage systems onsite or in private and public
    clouds. They also enable enterprises to manage large storage
    environments and ensure the availability of critical
    applications across physical and virtual environments. Products
    include: Storage Foundation, Cluster Server, AppHA,
    VirtualStore, and FileStore.




    
    7



Table of Contents






    Services


 


    Symantec Services help customers address information security,
    availability, storage, and compliance challenges at the endpoint
    and in complex, multi-vendor data center environments. We
    deliver managed, business critical and education services. These
    services complement our customers’ existing resources to
    secure and manage their information so they can maximize
    operational efficiency and reduce risk.


 



    Managed,
    Business Critical and Education Services


 


    Managed Services enable customers to place resource-intensive IT
    operations under the management of experienced Symantec
    specialists in order to optimize existing resources and focus on
    strategic IT projects. These services include: Managed Security
    Services, Managed Endpoint Protection Services and Managed
    Backup Services. Business Critical Services, our highest level
    of enterprise support services, connects our customers to
    Symantec’s technical community and best practices to help
    them realize immediate and ongoing value from their investments,
    and optimize their IT operations. Education Services delivers a
    full range of programs, including technical training,
    certification and custom learning services designed to help IT
    teams properly implement their Symantec solutions and optimize
    their use of the advanced functionality of our products.


 



    Other


 


    The Other segment includes sunset products and unallocated
    general administrative costs and is not considered an active
    business component of the company.


 



    Financial
    Information by Segment and Geographic Region


 


    For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by
    geographical area, and long-lived assets by geographical area,
    see Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements in this annual report. For information regarding the
    amount and percentage of our revenue contributed in each of our
    segments and our financial information, including information
    about geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7,
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations and Note 10 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report. For information regarding risks associated with our
    international operations, see Item 1A, Risk Factors.


 



    Sales and
    Go-To-Market
    Strategy


 


    Our
    go-to-market
    network includes direct, inside, and channel sales resources
    that support our ecosystem of partners worldwide. We also
    maintain important relationships with a number of Original
    Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”), Internet Service
    Providers (“ISPs”), and retail and online stores by
    which we market and sell our products.


 



    Consumer


 


    We sell our consumer products and services to individuals and
    home offices globally through a network of distribution partners
    and eCommerce channels. Our products are available to customers
    through our eCommerce platform, distributors, direct marketers,
    Internet-based resellers, system builders, ISPs and more than
    30,000 retail locations worldwide. We have partnerships with 9
    of the top 10 PC OEMs globally to distribute our Internet
    security suites and with 6 of the top 10 PC OEMs globally to
    distribute our online backup offerings.


 


    Consumer sales through our electronic distribution channel,
    which includes our Norton
    e-Store,
    OEMs, subscriptions, upgrades, and renewals, represented
    approximately 85 percent of consumer revenue in fiscal
    2011. The remaining 15 percent of consumer sales came from
    the retail channel.


 



    Enterprise


 


    We sell and market our products and related services to
    enterprise customers through our direct sales force of more than
    4,500 sales representatives and through a variety of indirect
    sales channels, which include value-added resellers, large
    account resellers, and system integrators. We also sell our
    products to businesses in more than





    
    8



Table of Contents





    191 countries through authorized distributors and OEMs who
    incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our
    products with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers
    of our products. Symantec has nearly 300 distribution partners
    in its partner program worldwide. Our sales efforts are
    primarily targeted to senior executives and IT department
    personnel responsible for managing a company’s IT
    initiatives.


 



    Marketing
    and Advertising


 


    Based on the acquired VeriSign check mark, Symantec rebranded
    its logo, which unified the company brand, Norton and
    Symantec.cloud brands. The new logos are designed to identify
    our company to both consumers and businesses.


 


    Our marketing expenditures relate primarily to advertising and
    promotion, which includes demand generation and product brand
    recognition. Our advertising and promotion efforts include,
    among other things, electronic and print advertising, trade
    shows, collateral production, and all forms of direct marketing.
    We also invest in cooperative marketing campaigns with
    distributors, resellers, retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.


 


    We invest in various retention marketing and customer loyalty
    programs to help drive renewals and encourage customer advocacy
    and referrals. We also provide focused vertical marketing
    programs in targeted industries and countries.


 


    We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most
    countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and
    promotional rebates to distributors and end users. Distributors
    and resellers earn volume incentive rebates primarily based upon
    the amount of product sales to end users. We also offer rebates
    to end users who purchase products through various resale
    channels. Both volume incentive rebates and end-user rebates are
    accrued as an offset to revenue.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    Symantec embraces a global research and development
    (“R&D”) strategy to drive organic innovation.
    Engineers and researchers throughout the company pursue advanced
    projects to translate R&D into customer solutions by
    creating new technologies and integrating our unique set of
    technology assets. Symantec focuses on short, medium, and
    long-term applied research, develops new products in emerging
    areas, participates in government-funded research projects,
    drives industry standards and partners with universities to
    conduct research supporting Symantec’s strategy.


 


    Symantec’s Security Technology and Response organization is
    a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and
    researchers that provides the underlying functionality, content,
    and support for all enterprise, SMB and consumer security
    products. Our security experts monitor malicious code reports
    collected through the Global Intelligence Network to provide
    insight into emerging attacks, malicious code activity,
    phishing, spam, and other threats. The team uses this vast
    intelligence to develop new technologies and approaches, such as
    Symantec’s reputation-based security technology, to protect
    customer information.


 


    Research and development expenses, exclusive of in-process
    research and development associated with acquisitions, were
    $862 million, $857 million and $870 million in
    fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, representing
    approximately 14%, 14% and 14% of revenue in the respective
    periods. We believe that technical leadership is essential to
    our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial
    resources to research and development.


 



    Support


 


    Symantec has centralized support facilities throughout the
    world, staffed by technical product experts knowledgeable in the
    operating environments in which our products are deployed. Our
    technical support experts assist customers with issue resolution
    and threat detection.


 


    Our consumer product support program provides self-help online
    services, phone, chat, and email support to consumers worldwide.
    Customers that subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic
    downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug
    fixes, and patches for most of our consumer products.




    
    9



Table of Contents





    We provide customers various levels of enterprise support
    offerings. Our enterprise security support program offers annual
    maintenance support contracts, including content, upgrades, and
    technical support. Our standard technical support includes:
    self-service options, delivered by telephone or electronically,
    during the contracted-for hours, immediate patches for severe
    problems; periodic software updates; and access to our technical
    knowledge base and frequently asked questions.


 



    Customers


 


    In fiscal 2011 and 2010 one distributor, Ingram Micro, accounted
    for 10% of our total net revenue in both periods. Our
    distributor arrangements with Ingram Micro consist of several
    non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its
    subsidiaries, each of which cover different countries or
    regions. Each of these agreements is separately negotiated and
    is independent of any other contract (such as a master
    distribution agreement), and these agreements are not based on
    the same form of contract. In fiscal 2009 one reseller, Digital
    River, accounted for 10% of our total net revenue. In fiscal
    2010, we launched an internally-developed eCommerce platform
    which has reduced our reliance on Digital River.


 



    Acquisitions


 


    Our acquisitions are designed to enhance the features and
    functionality of our existing products and extend our product
    leadership in core markets. We consider time to market,
    synergies with existing products, and potential market share
    gains when evaluating the economics of acquisitions of
    technologies, product lines, or companies. We may acquire
    and/or
    dispose of other technologies, products and companies in the
    future.


 


    During fiscal 2011, we completed the following significant
    acquisitions:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Company Name



 



    Company Description



 



    Date Acquired




 






    VeriSign, Inc. (identity and authentication business assets)



 


    Identity and authentication business assets purchase


 


    August 9, 2010





    PGP Corporation



 


    A nonpublic provider of email and data encryption software


 


    June 4, 2010





    GuardianEdge Technologies, Inc. 



 


    A nonpublic provider of email and data encryption software


 


    June 3, 2010








 


    For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 3 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this annual
    report.


 



    Competition


 


    Our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject
    to rapid changes in technology. We are focused on integration
    across the product portfolio and are including next-generation
    technology capabilities into our solution set to differentiate
    ourselves from the competition. We believe that the principal
    competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry
    include time to market, price, reputation, financial stability,
    breadth of product offerings, customer support, brand
    recognition, and effective sales and marketing efforts.


 


    In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors,
    we face indirect or potential competition from retailers,
    application providers, operating system providers, network
    equipment manufacturers, and other OEMs, who may provide various
    solutions and functions in their current and future products. We
    also compete for access to retail distribution channels and for
    spending at the retail level and in corporate accounts. In
    addition, we compete with other software companies, operating
    system providers, network equipment manufacturers and other OEMs
    to acquire technologies, products, or companies and to publish
    software developed by third parties. We also compete with other
    software companies in our effort to place our products on the
    computer equipment sold to consumers and enterprises by OEMs.


 


    The competitive environments in which each segment operates are
    described below.




    
    10



Table of Contents






    Consumer


 


    Some of the channels in which our consumer products are offered
    are highly competitive. Our competitors are intensely focused on
    customer acquisition, which has led such competitors to offer
    their technology for free, engage in aggressive marketing, or
    enter into competitive partnerships. Our primary competitors in
    the Consumer segment are McAfee, Inc., (“MFE”) owned
    by Intel Corporation, and Trend Micro Inc. (“Trend
    Micro”). There are also several smaller regional security
    companies and freeware providers that we compete against
    primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions. For our consumer backup
    offerings, our primary competitors are Carbonite, Inc., and
    Mozy, Inc., owned by EMC Corporation (“EMC”).


 



    Security
    and Compliance


 


    In the security and management markets, we compete against many
    companies that offer competing products to our solutions. Our
    primary competitors in the security and management market are
    LANDesk Software, Inc., MFE, Microsoft Corporation
    (“Microsoft”), and Trend Micro. There are also several
    smaller regional security companies that we compete against
    primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions. In the authentication
    services market our primary competitors are RSA, the security
    division of EMC, Entrust, Inc., Comodo Group, Inc., and
    GoDaddy.com, Inc.


 


    In the SaaS security market our primary competitors are Google
    Inc.’s Postini Services and Microsoft.


 



    Storage
    and Server Management


 


    The markets for storage management and backup are intensely
    competitive. Our primary competitors are CA, Inc., CommVault
    Systems, Inc., EMC, Hewlett-Packard Company (“HP”),
    International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”),
    Microsoft and Sun Microsystems, Inc., owned by Oracle
    Corporation.


 



    Services


 


    We believe that the principal competitive factors for our
    Services segment include technical capability, customer
    responsiveness, and our ability to hire and retain talented and
    experienced services personnel. Our primary competitors in the
    managed services business are IBM, and SecureWorks, Inc., owned
    by Dell, Inc.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 



    Protective
    Measures


 


    We regard some of the features of our internal operations,
    software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on
    copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and other
    measures to protect our proprietary information. Our
    intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that
    enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and
    technology and enhance our competitive position.


 


    As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter
    into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors,
    and corporate partners, and we enter into license agreements
    with respect to our software, documentation, and other
    proprietary information. These license agreements are generally
    non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also educate our
    employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to
    protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.


 



    Trademarks,
    Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses


 


    Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered
    trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to
    Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered,
    and/or
    applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks
    to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services
    from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign
    countries and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service
    mark, and trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The
    duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to
    country, and in the U.S. we generally are able to maintain
    our trademark rights and renew any trademark registrations for
    as long as the trademarks are in use.




    
    11



Table of Contents





    We have more than 1,200 U.S. or foreign issued patents and
    pending patent applications, including patents and rights to
    patent applications acquired through strategic transactions,
    which relate to various aspects of our products and technology.
    The duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the
    country of issuance and for the U.S. is typically
    17 years from the date of issuance of the patent or
    20 years from the date of filing of the patent application
    resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative
    to the expected lives of our products.


 


    Our products are protected under U.S. and international
    copyright laws and laws related to the protection of
    intellectual property and proprietary information. We take
    measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary
    rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the
    U.S. and abroad. However, these measures may not provide
    sufficient protection, and our intellectual property rights may
    be challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual
    property from third parties for use in our products, and
    generally must rely on the third party to protect the licensed
    intellectual property rights. While we believe that our ability
    to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is
    important to our success, we also believe that our business as a
    whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent,
    trademark, license, or other intellectual property right.


 



    Seasonality


 


    As is typical for many large software companies, our business is
    seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally
    higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our
    first and second fiscal quarters. A significant decline in
    license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter
    of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders
    in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we
    generally receive a higher volume of software license and
    maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders
    concentrated in the later part of that month. We believe that
    this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns
    and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation
    incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally
    reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than
    orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is
    shipped or services are performed and other revenue recognition
    criteria are met, and because a significant portion of our
    in-period revenue is provided by the ratable recognition of our
    deferred revenue balance.


 



    Employees


 


    As of April 1, 2011, we employed more than
    18,600 people worldwide, approximately 46 percent of
    whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,700 employees
    work in sales and marketing; 6,200 in research and development;
    4,200 in support and services; and 1,500 in management,
    manufacturing, and administration.


 



    Other
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.symantec.com. We make
    available free of charge on our website our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission (“SEC”). Other than the information
    expressly set forth in this annual report, the information
    contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this
    annual report.


 


    The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
    100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may
    obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
    by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers, such as us, that file
    electronically with the SEC.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    A description of the risk factors associated with our business
    is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive and you should
    carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before
    investing in our common stock.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Fluctuations
    in demand for our products and services are driven by many
    factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could
    adversely affect our financial results.


 


    We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and
    services due to a variety of factors, including general economic
    conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological
    change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and
    budget constraints of our current and potential customers,
    levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to IT
    systems, and other factors. While such factors may, in some
    periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also
    negatively impact our product sales. If demand for our products
    declines, our revenues and gross margin would likely be
    adversely affected.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services
    that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable
    to continually improve the performance, features, and
    reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our
    business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business
    and operating results could be adversely affected.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the
    rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or
    introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a
    timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and will continue to
    incur, significant research and development expenses as we
    strive to remain competitive. New product development and
    introduction involves a significant commitment of time and
    resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Managing the length of the development cycle for new products
    and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than
    we originally expected




 



     
        • 

    
    Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to
    technological developments by our competitors and customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Extending the operation of our products and services to new and
    evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products,
    such as mobile devices.




 



     
        • 

    
    Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited
    experience




 



     
        • 

    
    Managing new product and service strategies, including
    integrating our various security and storage technologies,
    management solutions, customer service, and support into unified
    enterprise security and storage solutions




 



     
        • 

    
    Addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship
    new or acquired products




 



     
        • 

    
    Developing or expanding efficient sales channels




 



     
        • 

    
    Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access
    from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to
    enable the development and deployment of interoperable products,
    including source code licenses for certain products with deep
    technical integration into operating systems





 


    If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges,
    or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not
    technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance,
    our business and operating results could be adversely affected.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors
    may gain market share in the markets for our products that could
    adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to
    decline.


 


    We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate
    or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new
    competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our
    competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop
    in revenue that could adversely affect our business and
    operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain an
    innovative research and development effort to develop new
    products and services and enhance existing products and
    services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or
    product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to
    competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological
    changes and changes in the ways that our information





    
    13



Table of Contents





    is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer
    markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors
    or to changing technological and customer demands, we could
    experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our
    financial results.


 


    Our traditional competitors include independent software vendors
    that offer software products that directly compete with our
    product offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors
    directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with
    them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the
    product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer
    hardware OEMs and ISPs. Our competitors could gain market share
    from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products
    with the products of our competitors or if these partners more
    actively promote our competitors’ products than our
    products. In addition, software vendors who have bundled our
    products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with
    their own or other vendors’ software or may limit our
    access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to
    develop products for their platform.


 


    We face growing competition from network equipment, computer
    hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and
    other technology companies. These firms are increasingly
    developing and incorporating into their products data protection
    and storage and server management software that competes at some
    levels with our product offerings. Our competitive position
    could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers
    perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as
    replacing the need for our products.


 


    Security protection is also offered by some of our competitors
    at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is bundled for
    free. Some companies offer the lower-priced or free security
    products within their computer hardware or software products
    that we believe are inferior to our products and SaaS offerings.
    Our competitive position could be adversely affected to the
    extent that our customers perceive these security products as
    replacing the need for more effective, full featured products
    and services such as those that we provide. The expansion of
    these competitive trends could have a significant negative
    impact on our sales and financial results.


 


    Another growing industry trend is the SaaS business model, where
    software vendors develop and host their applications for use by
    customers over the Internet or through the “cloud.”
    This allows enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially
    licensed, internally operated software without the associated
    complexity or high initial
    set-up and
    operational costs. Advances in the SaaS business model could
    enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the
    success of our traditional software licensing models. Our
    inability to successfully develop and market new and existing
    SaaS offerings could cause us to lose business to competitors.


 


    Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical,
    sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently
    may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their
    products instead of ours. Further consolidation within our
    industry or other changes in the competitive environment, such
    as Intel Corporation’s recently completed acquisition of
    MFE, could result in larger competitors that compete with us on
    several levels. We also face competition from many smaller
    companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets
    in which we compete.


 



    Defects
    or disruptions in our SaaS offerings could reduce demand for our
    services and subject us to substantial liability.


 


    Our SaaS offerings may contain errors or defects that users
    identify after they begin using them that could result in
    unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our
    reputation and our business. Since our customers use our SaaS
    offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to
    electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks,
    any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance
    problems with our SaaS offerings could significantly harm our
    reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If
    that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or
    withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers
    may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result
    in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an
    increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the
    expense and risk of litigation.




    
    14



Table of Contents






    If we
    fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively
    or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to
    their customers, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    We sell our products to customers around the world through
    multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. Sales through
    these different channels involve distinct risks, including the
    following:


 


    Direct Sales.  A significant portion of our
    revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our
    direct sales force to end-users. Special risks associated with
    direct sales include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales
    force




 



     
        • 

    
    Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to
    become productive, including regular updates to cover new and
    revised products





 


    Indirect Sales Channels.  A significant portion
    of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels,
    including distributors that sell our products to end-users and
    other resellers. This channel involves a number of risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products
    to end-users




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to
    minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our
    products to their customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally
    nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute
    competing products and may, from time to time, place greater
    emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing,
    promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors




 



     
        • 

    
    Recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased
    their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software
    providers





 


    OEM Sales Channels.  A significant portion of
    our revenues is derived from sales through our OEM partners that
    incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with,
    their products. Our reliance on this sales channel involves many
    risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the volume of systems shipped and the
    timing of such shipments




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners are generally not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements
    with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive
    conditions in our markets and other factors




 



     
        • 

    
    Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in general
    economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and
    other issues that could result in a reduction of OEM sales




 



     
        • 

    
    The development work that we must generally undertake under our
    agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest
    significant resources and incur significant costs with little or
    no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues




 



     
        • 

    
    The time and expense required for the sales and marketing
    organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our
    products may make it more difficult to introduce those products
    to the market




 



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own
    products and market and distribute products of our competitors,
    which could reduce our sales





 


    If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels
    successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or
    otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce
    our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our
    competitive position. Some of our distribution partners have
    experienced financial difficulties in the





    
    15



Table of Contents





    past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the
    future because of general economic conditions or for other
    reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us
    and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that
    could adversely affect our operating results. In addition,
    reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could
    cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk
    that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and
    could result in adverse operating results in future periods.


 



    We
    have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions,
    which gives rise to risks and challenges that could adversely
    affect our future financial results.


 


    We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the
    future, other businesses, business units, and technologies.
    Acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and
    challenges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of
    acquired business operations, workforce, products, and
    technologies




 



     
        • 

    
    Diversion of management time and attention




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated
    with the termination or replacement of those employees




 



     
        • 

    
    Assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including
    litigation related to the acquired business




 



     
        • 

    
    The addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased
    expenses and working capital requirements




 



     
        • 

    
    Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders




 



     
        • 

    
    Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related
    expenses, write-off of in-process research and development,
    impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and
    stock-based compensation expense





 


    If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we
    may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or
    suffer other adverse effects. To integrate acquired businesses,
    we must implement our technology systems in the acquired
    operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the
    acquired operations. We also must effectively integrate the
    different cultures of acquired business organizations into our
    own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to
    enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and
    where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions.


 


    Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability
    to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired
    businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of
    acquisitions.


 



    Risks
    related to the provision of our SaaS offerings could impair our
    ability to deliver our services and could expose us to
    liability.


 


    We currently serve our SaaS-based customers from hosting
    facilities located across the globe. Any damage to, or failure
    of, any element of these hosting facilities could result in
    interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and
    expose us to liability. Interruptions or failures in our service
    delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions
    with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could
    harm our ability to attract new customers. Our business would
    also be harmed if our customers believe that our SaaS offerings
    are unreliable. As we continue to offer more of our software
    products in a SaaS-based delivery model, all of these risks
    could be exacerbated.


 


    Our SaaS offerings also involve the storage and transmission of
    customers’ proprietary information, and security breaches
    could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, which
    could lead to litigation and possible liability. Despite our
    precautions to protect against such breaches, our security
    measures could be breached at any time and could result in
    unauthorized third parties obtaining access to our, or our
    customers’ data. A security breach could also result in a
    loss of confidence in the security of our SaaS offerings, which
    could negatively impact our business.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    Our
    financial condition and results of operations could be adversely
    affected if we do not effectively manage our
    liabilities.


 


    As a result of the sale of our 0.75% convertible senior notes
    (“0.75% Notes”) and 1.00% convertible senior
    notes (“1.00% Notes”), collectively referred to
    as the Convertible Senior Notes in June 2006, and
    2.75% senior notes (“2.75% Notes”) and
    4.20% senior notes (“4.20% Notes”),
    collectively referred to as the Senior Notes in September 2010,
    we have notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of
    $2.7 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar
    years 2011, 2013, 2015 and 2020. In addition, we have entered
    into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of
    $1 billion. From time to time in the future, we may also
    incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available under our
    credit facility. Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt
    could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of
    certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our
    financial condition and results of operations. Of our
    outstanding Convertible Senior Notes, $600 million matures
    and is repayable in June 2011 and $1.0 billion is due in
    June 2013. We may be required to use all or a substantial
    portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity
    unless we can obtain new financing.


 



    Adverse
    global economic events may harm our business, operating results
    and financial condition.


 


    Adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our
    business, operating results or financial condition under a
    number of different scenarios. During challenging economic times
    and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers
    may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or
    additional instances of existing products, upgrade their
    existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are
    often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase
    services. Customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the
    requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our
    products and services. An adverse macroeconomic environment
    could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers
    be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously
    purchased products and services. Accordingly, reserves for
    doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may
    increase. In addition, weakness in the market for end users of
    our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and
    resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or
    experience other financial difficulties. This would further
    increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays
    in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers.


 


    In addition, the onset or continuation of adverse economic
    conditions may make it more difficult either to utilize our
    existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our
    operations, investing activities (including potential
    acquisitions) or financing activities. Specific economic trends,
    such as declines in the demand for PCs, servers, and other
    computing devices, or softness in corporate information
    technology spending, could have an even more direct, and
    harmful, impact on our business.


 



    Our
    international operations involve risks that could increase our
    expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require
    increased time and attention of our management.


 


    We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers
    located outside of the U.S. and we have significant
    operations outside of the U.S., including engineering, sales,
    customer support, and production. We plan to expand our
    international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon
    the financial performance of our existing international
    operations as well as our identification of growth
    opportunities. Our international operations are subject to risks
    in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of proprietary information due to
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. laws or that may not
    be adequately enforced




 



     
        • 

    
    Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls,
    including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that
    reduce the flexibility of our business operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of
    encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the
    acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks
    for secure communications




 



     
        • 

    
    Local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal
    standards and practices, including business practices that we
    are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations







    
    17



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in
    international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the
    U.S.




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability
    such as higher interest rates in the U.S. and inflationary
    conditions that could reduce our customers’ ability to
    obtain financing for software products or that could make our
    products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing
    business in certain countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current
    levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest
    sufficiently in our international operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and
    difficulties in collecting accounts receivable




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our
    international operations, including difficulties related to
    administering our stock plans in some foreign countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our
    geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations




 



     
        • 

    
    Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in
    Europe and in other periods in other countries




 



     
        • 

    
    Costs and delays associated with developing software and
    providing support in multiple languages




 



     
        • 

    
    Political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural
    disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities





 


    A significant portion of our transactions outside of the
    U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly,
    our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to
    fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We expect to be affected
    by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future,
    especially if international sales continue to grow as a
    percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the
    United States continue to increase.


 


    The level of corporate tax from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers
    is generally less than the level of tax from sales to our
    U.S. customers. This benefit is contingent upon existing
    tax regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which
    our international operations are located. Future changes in
    domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect
    our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits.


 



    Our
    products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer
    configurations, which could result in errors or product
    failures.


 


    Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors,
    failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first
    introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are
    often installed and used in large-scale computing environments
    with different operating systems, system management software,
    and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause
    errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected
    errors, failures, or bugs in our products. Our customers’
    computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety
    of standard and non-standard configurations that make
    pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very
    difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us
    and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new
    products or releases until after commencement of commercial
    shipments. In the past, we have discovered software errors,
    failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after
    their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed
    or lost revenues as a result of these errors.


 


    Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could
    result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product
    returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products,
    loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others.
    Many of our end-user customers use our products in applications
    that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater
    sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other,
    less critical, software products. In addition, if an actual or
    perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs
    in one of our end-user customer’s systems, regardless of
    whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market
    perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed.
    Alleviating any of these problems could require significant
    expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause
    interruptions, delays, or cessation of our





    
    18



Table of Contents





    product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or
    potential customers and could adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key
    personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully,
    or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be
    unable to develop new and enhanced products and services,
    effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our
    revenues.


 


    Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and
    retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance,
    and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key
    personnel are
    employees-at-will,
    and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
    Competition for people with the specific skills that we require
    is significant. In order to attract and retain personnel in a
    competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a
    competitive compensation package, including cash and
    equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may
    from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or
    retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain
    required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number
    of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation
    plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of
    employee stock options and other forms of equity-based
    compensation as compensation expense. As a result, we may decide
    to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in
    our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. If we are
    unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if
    we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels
    when required by market conditions, our business and operating
    results could be adversely affected.


 


    From time to time, key personnel leave our company. While we
    strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss
    of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to
    our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of
    product releases, the successful implementation and completion
    of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures and our internal control over financial
    reporting, and the results of our operations. In addition,
    hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales
    and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause
    additional disruptions to our operations, and may be
    unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues.


 



    From
    time to time we are a party to class action lawsuits, which
    often require significant management time and attention and
    result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not
    determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial
    condition, results of operations, and cash flows.


 


    We have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we
    may be named in additional litigation. The expense of defending
    such litigation may be costly and divert management’s
    attention from the
    day-to-day
    operations of our business, which could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, an
    unfavorable outcome in such litigation could negatively impact
    our business, results of operations, and cash flows.


 



    Third
    parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could
    cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from
    selling our products.


 


    From time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the
    intellectual property rights of others, including claims
    regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. In addition,
    former employers of our former, current, or future employees may
    assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to
    us the confidential or proprietary information of these former
    employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result
    in costly litigation and distract management from
    day-to-day
    operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims,
    we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or
    redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter
    into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy
    indemnification obligations that we have with some of our
    customers. We cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing
    arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be
    available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all.


 


    In addition, we license and use software from third parties in
    our business. These third party software licenses may not
    continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all,
    and may expose us to additional liability. This





    
    19



Table of Contents





    liability, or our inability to use any of this third party
    software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions
    in our business that could materially and adversely affect our
    operating results.


 



    If we
    do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third
    parties from making unauthorized use of our products and
    technology, our financial results could be harmed.


 


    Most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary.
    We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination
    of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through
    copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. However,
    all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be
    challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. Third
    parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise
    obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information
    without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or
    superior technology independently by designing around our
    patents. Our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by
    licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of
    some jurisdictions. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign
    countries do not offer the same level of protection of our
    proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be
    subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries.
    The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary
    information could result in reduced sales of our products. Any
    legal action to protect proprietary information that we may
    bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could
    adversely affect our ability to access software, operating
    system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or
    cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products
    to their customers. In addition, any legal action to protect
    proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in,
    alone or through our alliances with the Business Software
    Alliance (“BSA”), or the Software &
    Information Industry Association (“SIIA”), could be
    costly, may distract management from
    day-to-day
    operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Some
    of our products contain “open source” software, and
    any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these
    open source licenses could negatively affect our
    business.


 


    Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed
    by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open
    source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the
    GNU General Public License (“GPL”), GNU Lesser General
    Public License (“LGPL”), the Mozilla Public License,
    the BSD License, and the Apache License. Some of these licenses
    contain requirements that we make available source code for
    modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open
    source software, and that we license such modifications or
    derivative works under the terms of a particular open source
    license or other license granting third parties certain rights
    of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we
    could be required to release the source code of our proprietary
    software if we combine our proprietary software with open source
    software in a certain manner. In addition to risks related to
    license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to
    greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as
    open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or
    controls on origin of the software. We have established
    processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review
    process for screening requests from our development
    organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure
    that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in
    our products. In addition, many of the risks associated with
    usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not
    properly addressed, negatively affect our business.


 



    Our
    software products and website may be subject to intentional
    disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future
    sales.


 


    Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to
    prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing
    target of attacks specifically designed to impede the
    performance of our products and harm our reputation as a
    company. Similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt
    to penetrate our network security or the security of our website
    and misappropriate proprietary information
    and/or cause
    interruptions of our services. Because the techniques used by
    such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change
    frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a
    target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. The
    theft and/or
    unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other
    confidential business information as a result of such an event
    could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation,
    brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may
    assert claims against us related to resulting losses of
    confidential or proprietary information. Our





    
    20



Table of Contents





    business could be subject to significant disruption, and we
    could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in
    the event of such incidents and claims.


 



    Increased
    customer demands on our technical support services may adversely
    affect our relationships with our customers and our financial
    results.


 


    We offer technical support services with many of our products.
    We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate
    short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We
    also may be unable to modify the format of our support services
    to compete with changes in support services provided by
    competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers.
    Further customer demand for these services, without
    corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    We have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide
    consumer support functions to third party service providers. If
    these companies experience financial difficulties, do not
    maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy
    our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient
    level under these contracts, the level of support services to
    our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could
    materially harm our relationships with these customers.


 



    Accounting
    charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial
    results.


 


    Our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to
    be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other
    accounting charges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product
    rights




 



     
        • 

    
    Impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets




 



     
        • 

    
    Stock-based compensation expense




 



     
        • 

    
    Restructuring charges




 



     
        • 

    
    Loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets
    held for sale





 


    For example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill
    impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a
    significant net loss for the year. Goodwill is evaluated
    annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal
    year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as
    we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and
    our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and
    assumptions made by our management. Our assessment of any
    impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair
    value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of
    that reporting unit. Our determination of fair value relies on
    management’s assumptions of our future revenues, operating
    costs, and other relevant factors. If management’s
    estimates of future operating results change, or if there are
    changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate
    applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair
    value of our reporting units could change significantly, which
    could result in a goodwill impairment charge. In addition, we
    evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible
    assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate
    that the value of these assets might be impaired. If we
    determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an
    impairment charge against the value of these assets.


 


    The foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred
    in connection with or as a result of other business
    acquisitions. The price of our common stock could decline to the
    extent that our financial results are materially affected by the
    foregoing accounting charges.


 



    Our
    effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income
    tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income
    (loss).


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income
    before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate
    that have differing statutory tax rates







    
    21



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple
    jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of
    certain tax rulings




 



     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods




 



     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place





 


    The price of our common stock could decline if our financial
    results are materially affected by an adverse change in our
    effective tax rate.


 


    We report our results of operations based on our determination
    of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions
    in which we operate. From time to time, we receive notices that
    a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction has determined that
    we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such
    authority. We are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes
    disputes with these tax authorities. We are engaged in disputes
    of this nature at this time. If the ultimate determination of
    our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in
    excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for,
    our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could
    be adversely affected.


 



    Fluctuations
    in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of
    our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in
    the future.


 


    Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and
    are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number
    of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which
    could adversely affect our operations and operating results. If
    our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future
    financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively
    affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may
    make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or
    pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our
    operating results for prior periods may not be effective
    predictors of our future performance.


 


    Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our
    business, and the markets for our products may cause our
    quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Reduced demand for any of our products




 



     
        • 

    
    Entry of new competition into our markets




 



     
        • 

    
    Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of
    products




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced
    versions of our products




 



     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates




 



     
        • 

    
    The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms
    and viruses)




 



     
        • 

    
    Our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases
    near the end of each quarter




 



     
        • 

    
    Enterprise customers’ tendency to negotiate site licenses
    near the end of each quarter




 



     
        • 

    
    Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Movement in interest rates




 



     
        • 

    
    The rate of adoption of new product technologies and new
    releases of operating systems




 



     
        • 

    
    Weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry
    conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate
    that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our
    products and services




 



     
        • 

    
    Political and military instability, which could slow spending
    within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise
    adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate
    effectively







    
    22



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by
    corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending
    objectives




 



     
        • 

    
    Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused
    by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural
    disasters affecting our headquarters located in Silicon Valley,
    California, an area known for seismic activity, or our other
    locations worldwide




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of war or terrorism




 



     
        • 

    
    Intentional disruptions by third parties




 



     
        • 

    
    Health or similar issues, such as a pandemic





 


    Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of
    our common stock to fluctuate significantly.


 



    Our
    stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose
    the value of your investment.


 


    The market price of our common stock has experienced significant
    fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the
    future, and as a result you could lose the value of your
    investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected
    by a number of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and
    earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with
    our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or
    securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail
    to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the
    expectations of our investors or securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our
    competitors’ operations, management, organization,
    financial condition, or financial statements




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors,
    or securities analysts




 



     
        • 

    
    Accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment
    of goodwill




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or
    by our competitors




 



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors,
    or our customers




 



     
        • 

    
    Gain or loss of a significant customer




 



     
        • 

    
    Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or
    emergency situations




 



     
        • 

    
    Economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic
    slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate





 


    The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of
    technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme
    price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue
    to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for
    reasons unrelated to our business or operating results.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B