Item 1A, Risk
    Factors, beginning on page 15. We encourage you to read
    that section carefully.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    PART I



 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 


    Symantec is a global leader in infrastructure software, enabling
    businesses and consumers to have confidence in a connected
    world. We help our customers protect their infrastructure,
    information, and interactions by delivering software and
    services that address risks to information security,
    availability, compliance, and information technology, or IT,
    systems performance. We strive to help our customers manage
    compliance, complexity, and cost by protecting their IT
    infrastructure as they seek to maximize value from their IT
    investments.


 


    We deliver a comprehensive and diverse set of security and
    availability products and services to large enterprises,
    governments, small and medium-sized businesses, and consumers on
    a worldwide basis. Our delivery network includes direct, inside,
    and channel sales resources that support our ecosystem of more
    than 50,000 partners worldwide, as well as various
    relationships with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs,
    Internet service providers, or ISPs, and retail and online
    stores. We operate in three geographic regions: Americas, which
    includes North America, Canada, and Latin America; EMEA, which
    includes Europe, Middle East and Africa; and Asia Pacific Japan.


 


    We operate primarily in two growing, diversified markets within
    the software sector: the security market and the storage
    software market. The security market includes products that
    protect consumers and enterprises from threats to personal
    computers, or PCs, computer networks, and electronic
    information. The storage software market includes products that
    manage, archive, protect, and recover business-critical data. We
    believe that these markets are converging as customers
    increasingly require our help in mitigating their risk profiles
    and managing their storage solutions in order to safeguard their
    IT infrastructure, information, and interactions.


 


    In the ever-changing threat landscape and increasingly complex
    IT environment for consumers and enterprises alike, we believe
    product differentiation will be the key to sustaining market
    leadership. Thus, we continually work to enhance the features
    and functionality of our existing products, extend our product
    leadership, and create innovative solutions for our customers.
    We focus on generating profitable and sustainable growth through
    internal research and development, licensing from third parties,
    and acquisitions of companies with leading technologies.


 


    During fiscal 2007, we took the following actions to support our
    business:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We developed and launched several new products and integrated
    new feature functionality into new versions of products, some of
    which include: Norton
    360tm,
    Norton Internet
    Securitytm
    2007, Norton
    Confidentialtm,
    Veritas Storage
    Foundationtm
    5.0, Veritas Cluster
    Servertm
    5.0,
    NetBackuptm
    6.0, Symantec Information
    Foundationtm
    2007, Backup
    Exectm
    11d, and
    Symantectm
    Security Information Manager. Customers are leveraging our
    broader product portfolio to help them solve the cost,
    complexity, and compliance issues for their IT environments.



 


     
        • 

    
    We expanded our services offerings to provide enterprise
    customers with an extended range of infrastructure management
    options that incorporates best practice and improves IT risk
    management.



 


     
        • 

    
    We merged the Symantec and Veritas enterprise sales forces into
    one integrated sales team. This structure allows better account
    and opportunity coverage, while leveraging our broad product
    portfolio.



 


     
        • 

    
    We consolidated two enterprise resource planning, or ERP,
    systems into a single enhanced system and implemented a new
    buying program in order to drive operational efficiencies and
    create a platform from which we can work to improve the ease of
    transacting business with our customers.



 


     
        • 

    
    We consolidated three of our enterprise business segments into
    two segments and now operate in five operating segments. During
    fiscal 2008, we will also operate in a new segment consisting of
    our Altiris business, which was acquired in April 2007, and we
    will realign some of our existing segments. See Note 15 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more
    information.



 


     
        • 

    
    In January 2007, we announced plans to reduce our cost structure
    in order to better align expenses with revenue expectations,
    which included a workforce reduction of approximately five
    percent worldwide. Once






    
    4



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    the reductions are fully implemented, the plan is expected to
    save approximately $200 million in costs on an annualized
    basis.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We completed two small acquisitions during fiscal 2007,
    Company-i Limited and 4FrontSecurity, Inc. In addition, in a
    more significant transaction announced during fiscal 2007, and
    completed in April 2007, we acquired Altiris, Inc., a leading
    provider of IT management software. We believe this acquisition
    will enable us to help customers better manage and enforce
    security policies at the endpoint, identify and protect against
    threats, and repair and service their IT assets.



 


     
        • 

    
    We expanded our operations in India and China as we look to
    broaden our access to engineering talent, primarily in product
    support and development, on a worldwide basis. This has
    increased the efficiency of our support and development
    activities.



 


     
        • 

    
    We repurchased 162 million shares of our common stock for
    an aggregate amount of $2.8 billion.





 


    Founded in 1982, Symantec has grown to approximately
    $5.2 billion in revenue in fiscal 2007, positioning
    Symantec as the fourth largest independent software company in
    the world based on revenue. We have operations in 40 countries
    and our principal executive offices are located at 20330 Stevens
    Creek Blvd, Cupertino, California 95014. Our telephone number at
    that location is
    (408) 517-8000.
    Our home page on the Internet is www.symantec.com. Other
    than the information expressly set forth in this annual report,
    the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not
    part of this annual report.


 



    Industry


 


    The security market consists of endpoint security; the
    protection and compliance of end-user devices such as desktop
    computers, laptops, and handhelds; data and messaging security;
    network security; and security services. Over the past several
    years, we have seen security threats continue to evolve from
    traditional viruses, worms, Trojan horses, and other
    vulnerabilities, and more recently from threats such as phishing
    (attacks that use spoofed websites and emails designed to record
    keystrokes or to fool recipients into divulging personal
    financial data), email fraud, and identity theft. We have also
    seen security rise to a top priority for enterprises as
    information security is increasingly linked to regulatory
    compliance. This evolution is a key driver of our research and
    development and acquisition strategies, as we strive to
    differentiate our solutions from the competition and address our
    customers’ changing needs.


 


    As a result of our acquisition of Veritas in July 2005, we are
    now the leading supplier of hardware-independent storage
    software. The worldwide storage software market consists of
    storage management, server and application management, backup
    and archiving, and infrastructure software products and
    services. Key drivers of demand in this market include the
    ever-increasing quantity of data being collected, the need for
    data to be protected, recoverable, and accessible at all times,
    and the need for a growing number of critical applications to be
    continuously available and highly performing.


 


    Other factors driving demand in this market include the increase
    in the number of Internet users, computing devices, companies
    conducting business online, the continuous automation of
    business processes, the on-going desire of organizations to
    manage their overall IT risk, the increasing pressure on
    companies to lower storage and server management costs while
    simultaneously increasing the utilization, availability levels,
    and performance of their existing IT infrastructure, and the
    increasing importance of document retention and regulatory
    compliance solutions.


 


    For information regarding our revenue by segment, revenue by
    geographical area, and long-lived assets by geographical area,
    see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. For information regarding the amount and percentage
    of our revenue contributed in each of our product categories and
    our financial information, including information about
    geographic areas in which we operate, see Item 7,
    Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations and Note 15 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For information
    regarding risks associated with our international operations,
    see Item 1A, Risk Factors.



    
    5



Table of Contents





    Operating
    Segments and Products


 


    Our operating segments are significant strategic business units
    that offer different products and services, distinguished by
    customer needs. During fiscal 2007, we operated in five
    operating segments: Consumer Products, Security and Data
    Management, Data Center Management, Services, and Other. The
    Other segment is comprised of sunset products and products
    nearing the end of their life cycle and also includes general
    and administrative expenses; amortization of acquired product
    rights, other intangible assets, and other assets; charges, such
    as acquired in-process research and development, patent
    settlement, stock-based compensation, and restructuring; and
    certain indirect costs that are not charged to the other
    operating segments.


 


    During the June 2007 quarter, we will add an additional segment
    which will consist of the Altiris products. We will also move
    our
    Ghosttm,
    pcAnywheretm,
    and
    LiveStatetm
    Delivery products from the Security and Data Management segment
    to the Altiris segment. In addition, we will move our Managed
    Security Services, DeepSight, and Software-As-A-Service products
    and services from the Security and Data Management segment to
    the Services segment.


 



    Consumer
    Products


 


    Our Consumer Products segment focuses on delivering our Internet
    security, PC tuneup, and backup products to individual users and
    home offices. Our
    Nortontm
    brand of consumer security software products provides protection
    for
    Windows®
    and
    Macintosh®
    platforms. More than 95 percent of our sales within the
    Consumer Products segment consist of products providing
    protection from malicious attacks.


 


    During fiscal 2007, the growth in our consumer business was
    driven in part by the evolving threat landscape, including
    malicious threats and crimeware, and increased demand for
    products that secure sensitive online consumer interactions,
    such as financial transactions, and in part by the shift to
    recognizing consumer revenue on a ratable basis.


 


    Many of Symantec’s consumer products include an ongoing
    commitment to provide product technology and feature updates
    throughout the typical
    12-month
    term of the subscription, to help ensure
    up-to-the-minute
    protection against the latest threats. Most of the products that
    we are currently marketing or developing feature
    LiveUpdatetm
    functionality, which automatically updates these products with
    the latest technology, virus definitions, firewall rules,
    Uniform Resource Locator, or URL, databases, and uninstall
    scripts.


 


    Our primary consumer products are:


 




     	
     	
     	




    Norton Internet Security
    



 


    This PC and transaction security
    suite helps defend home and home office users against the latest
    online threats by blocking online identity theft, detecting and
    eliminating spyware, removing viruses and worms, and protecting
    against hackers from entering a user’s system. The 2007
    solution delivers essential protection — antivirus,
    antispyware, antiphishing, two-way firewall, rootkit detection,
    and intrusion prevention — as well as significantly
    improved performance. Customers can also receive antispam and
    parental controls through an optional add-on pack.
    





    Norton
    AntiVirustm
    



 


    This product safeguards against
    viruses, spyware, and other security risks. The 2007 version
    optimizes performance while providing enhanced Internet worm
    protection that blocks attacks from entire worm and virus
    families without requiring individual virus and worm signatures;
    enhanced kernel level rootkit protection, which protects against
    known and emerging hidden threats located at the deepest level
    of the operating system; enhanced pre-install scan to help
    ensure a successful installation process; and cookie tracking
    support, which provides customers with the ability to remove
    tracking items known as “cookies.”
    





    Norton 360
    



 


    This new,
    all-in-one
    comprehensive security service for mainstream computer users,
    introduced in February 2007, delivers protection across four
    categories: PC security, transaction security, online backup and
    restore, and PC tuneup. It also includes embedded support.
    Customers can also receive antispam and parental controls
    through an optional add-on pack.
    









    
    6



Table of Contents




    For most of our consumer products, we translate the
    documentation, software, and packaging into the local language
    and prepare marketing programs tailored for each local market.


 



    Security
    and Data Management


 


    Our Security and Data Management segment focuses on providing
    large to small and medium-sized businesses with solutions for
    compliance and security management, endpoint security, messaging
    management, and data protection management software solutions
    that allow our customers to secure, provision, backup, and
    remotely access their laptops, PCs, mobile devices, and servers.
    Our comprehensive solutions include virus protection and content
    filtering, antispam, endpoint security, firewall and virtual
    private networking, or VPN, intrusion protection, policy
    compliance, security management, managed security services, and
    early warning services. At the gateway level, our products run
    on
    Windows NT®,
    Solaristm,
    and
    Linux®
    platforms. At the server level, our products operate on
    Windows NT,
    UNIX®,
    Linux, and other key server platforms. At the client level, our
    products run on the Windows platform.


 


    During fiscal 2007, our enterprise antivirus and backup products
    continued to experience increased competition as negotiations
    for new and renewal business were aggressive.


 


    Our primary enterprise security solutions address the following
    areas:


 



    Endpoint
    Security


 


    Our security solutions enable organizations to evaluate,
    protect, and remediate both managed and unmanaged systems as
    they connect to corporate assets. Integrated solutions, such as
    Symantec
    AntiVirustm
    and Symantec Client Security, include antivirus, anti-spyware,
    firewall, intrusion prevention, and network access control
    technologies. Client machines, servers, and mobile devices are
    all protected by Symantec’s technologies.


 



    Data
    Protection and Systems Management


 


    Through solutions such as Backup Exec, pcAnywhere, and Ghost,
    Symantec enables customers to manage their computing systems and
    devices, including backup, recovery, deployment, migration, data
    archiving, and help-desk remote control.


 



    Enterprise
    Messaging Management


 


    Our Enterprise Messaging Solutions provide a common framework
    for customers to consistently enforce content control policies
    across the enterprise, from email and instant messaging security
    to archiving. These solutions are built on market-leading
    antispam, content filtering, policy management, and archiving
    and retention technologies, allowing IT professionals to
    proactively prevent the risks of data leakage and policy
    violations while rapidly and cost-effectively responding to
    e-Discovery
    requests. Products include Symantec Information
    Foundationtm
    2007, Symantec Mail Security, and Symantec Enterprise
    Vaulttm.
    


 



    Compliance
    and Security Management


 


    We provide solutions to help customers define, control, and
    govern their IT policies from a central location. These
    solutions help organizations protect critical assets and reduce
    business risk by probing for network vulnerabilities, monitoring
    threats in real-time, retaining logs for analysis, managing
    security incidents, and demonstrating compliance with internal
    mandates and external regulations. Our solutions include
    Symantec Control Compliance Suite, Symantec
    BindViewtm
    Policy Manager, Symantec Security Information Manager, and
    Symantec Enterprise Security Manager.


 



    Managed
    Security Services


 


    Symantec Managed Security Services are designed to allow
    enterprise IT organizations to cost-effectively outsource their
    security management, monitoring, and response needs. Our
    comprehensive service offerings leverage the knowledge of
    Internet security experts to protect the value of an
    organization’s networked assets and infrastructure. We
    provide remote monitoring and management of vendor neutral
    firewall and VPN solutions; real-



    
    7



Table of Contents




    time monitoring and analysis of intrusion detection alerts;
    coordinated event monitoring, analysis, and management of
    Symantec security appliances; and integrated global intelligence
    services from our early warning solutions. Symantec Managed
    Security Services uses global intelligence to offer fast and
    accurate analysis of security data to protect customers against
    emerging threats and reduce overall security risk.


 



    Threat
    and Early Warning Systems


 


    Our customized and comprehensive alerts of impending
    Internet-based attacks worldwide — with
    countermeasures to prevent attacks before they occur —
    enable companies to mitigate risk, manage threats, and help
    ensure business continuity.


 



    Data
    Center Management


 


    Our Data Center Management segment focuses on providing
    enterprise and large enterprise customers with storage and
    server management, data protection, and application performance
    management solutions across heterogeneous storage and server
    platforms. These solutions enable companies to standardize on a
    single layer of infrastructure software that works on every
    major distributed operating system and supports every major
    storage device, database, and application.


 


    Our primary data center management solutions address the
    following areas:


 



    Storage
    Management


 


    These solutions provide storage management, storage resource
    management, storage utilization management, Storage Area
    Network, or SAN, management, storage virtualization and
    replication solutions. Storage Foundation 5.0, announced in May
    2006, provides IT organizations with visibility and control of
    storage assets in their heterogeneous data centers with recent
    enhancements including centralized management and enhanced
    storage virtualization, and includes Storage Foundation Basic
    designed for edge-tier workloads. Veritas Command
    Centraltm
    Storage, a storage resource management and SAN management
    solution, enables administrators to gain visibility into all the
    physical devices on their SAN, and provide capacity and
    utilization management and reporting.


 



    Server
    Management


 


    These solutions allow enterprises to ensure the availability of
    critical applications, and to understand and manage their server
    and application infrastructure in a more effective and automated
    fashion. Veritas Cluster Server allows critical applications to
    remain operational, even when the underlying physical servers
    running those applications experience outages. Through solutions
    such as Server Foundation, Symantec provides enterprise
    customers the ability to discover in detail what is running on
    all the servers in their data center, and to actively manage and
    administer those servers. The Server Foundation suite of
    products provides application virtualization, patch management,
    configuration management, server provisioning, and server
    management across heterogeneous storage and server platforms and
    virtual machines. In November 2006, we further expanded Server
    Foundation with the addition of Veritas Application Director.
    Application Director helps companies share server resources
    across applications to maximize server utilization and
    application availability.


 



    Data
    Protection


 


    The NetBackup solutions are designed to protect, backup,
    archive, and restore data across a broad range of enterprise
    computing environments — from large corporate data
    centers to remote offices and desktop and laptop computers.
    Veritas NetBackup
    PureDisktm,
    announced in April 2006, combines disk-based data protection and
    advanced data de-duplication technology to enable companies to
    centrally manage and administer data protection for hundreds or
    even thousands of remote offices.


 



    Application
    Performance Management


 


    These products provide monitoring and reporting of performance
    management across business production environments, enabling
    organizations to meet stringent Service Level Agreements
    set for important applications.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    The Application Service Dashboard, announced in January 2007,
    allows IT organizations to easily customize Symantec
    i3tm
    performance and service-level metrics via a single dashboard,
    enabling IT staff members to maximize their efficiency in
    supporting today’s multi-tier business applications.


 



    Services


 


    Our Services segment consists of consultants with extensive
    technical knowledge, business expertise, and global insight
    across multi-vendor environments who assist organizations in
    managing IT risk on an ongoing basis. Services addresses the
    primary areas of IT risk — security, availability,
    performance, and compliance. We provide customers with
    maintenance and technical support, consulting, education, and
    business critical services.


 


    The primary classes of consulting service that we offer are:


 




     	
     	
     	




    Symantec Advisory Services
    



 


    Advisory Services consultants
    combine technical expertise with a business focus to create
    comprehensive plans and strategies. Each area of our expertise
    has a portfolio of defined services and deliverables, as well as
    custom offerings.
    





    Symantec Solutions Enablement
    



 


    Solutions Enablement consultants
    provide organizations with the expertise to optimize and
    accelerate the benefits of IT infrastructure investments by
    designing, implementing, and rolling out solutions.
    





    Symantec Residency and Operational
    Services
    



 


    In December 2006, we expanded our
    services to include support for customers’ long-term
    programs. These consultants offer deployment and migration
    assistance and management, support IT staffs, and provide
    continuous
    on-site
    technology and business expertise.
    








 



    Sales and
    Channel Strategy


 



    Consumer
    Products


 


    We sell our consumer products to individuals and home offices
    globally through a multi-tiered network of distribution
    partners. Our strategy is to place our products in a variety of
    channels where consumers might consider purchasing security and
    backup products.


 


    Our products are available to customers through channels that
    include distributors, retailers, direct marketers,
    Internet-based resellers, OEMs, system builders, educational
    institutions, and ISPs. We separately sell annual content update
    subscriptions directly to end-users primarily through the
    Internet. We also sell some of our products and product upgrades
    in conjunction with channel partners through direct mail/email
    and over the Internet.


 


    Sales in the Consumer Products business through our electronic
    distribution channel, which includes OEM subscriptions,
    upgrades, online sales, and renewals, grew by $221 million
    in fiscal 2007 over fiscal 2006. During fiscal 2007, nearly
    70 percent of revenue in the Consumer Products segment came
    from our electronic channels. We also made infrastructure
    improvements in order to capture more direct renewal business
    from customers originally reached through these channels.


 



    Enterprise
    Solutions


 


    We sell and market our products and related services to
    enterprise customers both directly and through a variety of
    indirect sales channels, which include value-added resellers, or
    VARs, large account resellers, or LARs, distributors, system
    integrators, or SIs, and OEMs. Our enterprise customers include
    many leading global corporations, small and medium-sized
    businesses, and many government agencies around the world. Many
    of our products involve a consultative, solution-oriented sales
    model. Thus, our sales efforts are targeted to senior executives
    and IT department personnel who are responsible for managing a
    company’s IT initiatives.


 


    Our primary method of demand generation for enterprise customers
    is through our direct sales force. We ended fiscal 2007 with
    approximately 7,800 individuals in our sales and services
    groups. Account managers are responsible for customer
    relationships and opportunity management and are supported by
    product and services



    
    9



Table of Contents




    specialists. In the June 2006 quarter, we integrated the
    Symantec and Veritas sales forces and moved to a single account
    manager per major account model in order to provide customers
    with more relationship oriented service.


 


    We complement our direct sales efforts with indirect sales
    channels such as resellers, VARs, LARs, distributors, and SIs,
    primarily to address the small to medium-sized enterprise
    market. We sell our products through authorized distributors in
    more than 40 countries throughout the world. Our top
    distributors are Ingram Micro, Inc. and Tech Data Product
    Management, Inc.


 


    Another important element of our Enterprise Solutions strategy
    involves our relationships with OEM partners that incorporate
    our products into their products, bundle our products with their
    products, or serve as authorized resellers of our products.


 



    Marketing
    and Advertising


 


    Our marketing expenditure is primarily spent on advertising and
    promotion, which includes demand generation and brand
    recognition of our consumer and enterprise products. Our
    advertising and promotion efforts include, but are not limited
    to, electronic and print advertising, trade shows, collateral
    production, and all forms of direct marketing. We also invest in
    cooperative marketing campaigns with distributors, resellers,
    retailers, OEMs, and industry partners.


 


    We continually conduct market research to understand evolving
    customer needs and buying behaviors to identify the latest
    consumer and enterprise trends, as well as overall customer
    satisfaction with our products and services. We also communicate
    with customers through the Symantec website, regularly scheduled
    Web-based seminars and online newsletters, as well as through
    direct mailings, both physical and electronic, to existing
    end-users and prospects.


 


    Other marketing activities include the production of brochures,
    sales tools, multi-media product demonstrations, packaging, and
    other collateral materials. We help drive awareness and
    acquisition through search engine marketing, online content
    syndication, various online and entertainment sponsorships, and
    word-of-mouth
    marketing, as well as participation in focused trade and
    computer shows, sponsorship of industry analyst conferences, and
    execution of Symantec road shows, seminars, and user group
    conferences. In addition, we invest in various retention
    marketing and customer loyalty programs to help drive renewals
    and encourage customer advocacy and referrals. We also provide
    focused vertical marketing programs in targeted industries and
    countries.


 


    We typically offer two types of rebate programs within most
    countries: volume incentive rebates to channel partners and
    promotional rebates to distributors and end-users. Distributors
    and resellers earn volume incentive rebates primarily based upon
    product sales to end-users. We also offer rebates to individual
    users who purchase products through various resale channels.


 


    We regularly offer upgrade rebates to consumers purchasing a new
    version of a product. Both volume incentive rebates and end-user
    rebates are accrued as an offset to revenue.


 



    Support


 


    We maintain centralized support facilities throughout the world
    that provide rapid,
    around-the-clock
    responses to complex customer inquiries. We have support
    facilities with experts in technical areas associated with the
    products we produce and the operating environments in which
    these products are deployed by many of our customers. During
    fiscal 2007, we made investments in technology to link our
    global support centers together, which has increased our
    capacity to deliver technical support to our customers
    24 hours a day, seven days a week. Additionally, our
    technology investments improved our ability to deliver online
    solutions to our customers. Our technical support experts
    provide customers with information on product implementation and
    usage, issue resolution, and countermeasures and identification
    tools for new threats. Support is available in multiple
    languages including Cantonese, Dutch, English, French, German,
    Italian, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Portuguese, and Spanish. We
    believe that enhanced language support is an important element
    of our success and plan to continue our investments in the
    delivery of non-English technical support.


 


    Our Security Response Team consists of dedicated intrusion
    experts, security engineers, virus hunters, and members of the
    global technical support teams that work in tandem to provide
    extensive coverage for enterprises



    
    10



Table of Contents




    and consumers. Symantec Security Response provides customers
    with comprehensive and global Internet security expertise,
    24 hours a day, seven days a week, to guard against
    today’s multi-faceted Internet threats. The Symantec
    Security Response Team issues a semi-annual Internet Security
    Threat report that provides an analysis and discussion of trends
    in Internet attacks, vulnerabilities, malicious code activity,
    and other security risks. We believe that this report is one of
    the most comprehensive sources of Internet threat data in the
    world, identifying emerging trends in attacks and malicious code
    activity. When a new threat or vulnerability is discovered, our
    Security Response experts provide a rapid emergency response
    that consists of communication with customers and delivery of
    security updates for our security products.


 


    Our enterprise security support program offers annual
    maintenance support contracts to enterprise customers worldwide,
    including content, upgrades, and technical support. Our standard
    technical support includes the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Unlimited hotline service delivered by telephone, fax, email,
    and over the Internet



 


     
        • 

    
    Immediate patches for severe problems



 


     
        • 

    
    Periodic software updates



 


     
        • 

    
    Access to our technical knowledge base and frequently asked
    questions, or FAQ, facility



 


     
        • 

    
    An invitation to our annual user group meeting





 


    Our consumer product support program provides self-help online
    services, chat, and email support to consumer customers
    worldwide. A team of product experts, editors, and language
    translators are dedicated to maintaining the robustness of the
    online knowledge base. Generally, telephone product support is
    provided for a fee by an outside vendor. Customers that
    subscribe to LiveUpdate receive automatic downloads of the
    latest virus definitions, application bug fixes, and patches for
    most of our consumer products.


 



    Customers


 


    Our solutions are used worldwide by individual and enterprise
    customers in a wide variety of industries, small and
    medium-sized enterprises, as well as various governmental
    entities. In fiscal 2007, one distributor, Ingram Micro,
    accounted for more than 10 percent of total net revenues.
    In fiscal 2006 and 2005, two distributors, Ingram Micro and Tech
    Data Product Management, each accounted for more than
    10 percent of our total net revenues. In fiscal 2007, 2006,
    and 2005, one reseller, Digital River, Inc., accounted for more
    than 10 percent of our total net revenues.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We believe that technical leadership is essential to our
    success. Therefore, we expect to continue to commit substantial
    resources to research and development. Whether we maintain our
    technical leadership position will largely depend on our ability
    to enhance existing products, respond to changing customer
    requirements, and develop and introduce new products in a timely
    manner.


 


    The Symantec Security Response Team is responsible for a
    significant component of our research and development efforts.
    Our Security Response experts, located at research centers
    throughout the world, are focused on collecting and analyzing
    the latest malware threats, ranging from network security
    threats and vulnerabilities to viruses and worms. To simplify
    and speed up the delivery of security updates for our product
    offerings at the server, gateway, and desktop levels, we use our
    LiveUpdatetm
    technology.


 


    Outside of our Security Response research centers, other major
    research and development initiatives for storage and
    availability products include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Continued focus on operating system platform expansion



 


     
        • 

    
    Development of new infrastructure products, including server
    provisioning, clustering, application performance management,
    and service level management



 


     
        • 

    
    Initiatives to improve replication, storage resource management,
    and next generation virtualization technology






    
    11



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Development of new data protection technologies for disk-based
    data protection



 


     
        • 

    
    Continued efforts to ensure regulatory compliance and enhanced
    disaster recovery





 


    Symantec Research Labs, or SRL, is a group designed to foster
    new technologies and products to help us maintain leadership in
    existing markets. A key component of the SRL is our Advanced
    Concepts group, which is focused on identifying new markets and
    quickly transforming ideas into products for those markets.


 


    Independent contractors are used for various aspects of the
    product development process. In addition, elements of some of
    our products are licensed from third parties.


 


    We had research and development expenses, exclusive of
    in-process research and development associated with
    acquisitions, of $867 million in fiscal 2007,
    $682 million in fiscal 2006, and $334 million in
    fiscal 2005. We believe that technical leadership is essential
    to our success and we expect to continue to commit substantial
    resources to research and development.


 



    Acquisitions


 


    Our strategic technology acquisitions are designed to enhance
    the features and functionality of our existing products, as well
    as extend our product leadership. We use strategic acquisitions
    to provide certain technology, people, and products for our
    overall product and services strategy. We consider both time to
    market and potential market share gains when evaluating
    acquisitions of technologies, product lines, or companies. We
    have completed a number of acquisitions of technologies,
    companies, and products in the past, and we have also disposed
    of technologies and products. We may acquire
    and/or
    dispose of other technologies, companies, and products in the
    future.


 


    During fiscal 2007, we completed the following acquisitions:


 




     	
     	
     	




    4FrontSecurity
    



 


    4FrontSecurity was acquired in
    February 2007 and develops proprietary risk software, assessment
    software, and content-rich assessment tools that improve
    customers’ insight of risk, regulatory, compliance, and
    security control criteria for organizational information and
    business objectives.
    




 


 


 




 


 


 





    Company-i
    



 


    Company-i is a United
    Kingdom-based professional services firm that we acquired in
    December 2006. The firm specializes in addressing key challenges
    associated with operating and managing a data center in the
    financial services industry. Company-i expands the capability of
    Symantec’s global consulting services group to help clients
    manage IT risk and cost, particularly in the data center.
    








 


    For further discussion of our acquisitions, see Note 3 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 



    Competition


 


    Our markets are consolidating, are highly competitive, and are
    subject to rapid changes in technology. Our competitiveness
    depends on our ability to deliver products that meet our
    customers’ needs by enhancing our existing solutions and
    services and offering reliable, scalable, and standardized new
    solutions on a timely basis. We believe that the principal
    competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry
    also include integration of advanced technology, time to market,
    price, reputation, financial stability, breadth of product
    offerings, customer support, brand recognition, and effective
    sales and marketing efforts.


 


    In addition to the competition we face from direct competitors,
    we face indirect or potential competition from application
    providers, operating system providers, network equipment
    manufacturers, and other OEMs, who may provide various solutions
    and functions in their current and future products. We also
    compete for access to retail distribution channels and for the
    attention of customers at the retail level and in corporate
    accounts. In addition, we compete with other software companies,
    operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers and
    other OEMs to acquire technologies, products, or companies and
    to publish software developed by third parties. We also compete
    with other software companies in our effort to place our
    products on the computer equipment sold to consumers by OEMs.



    
    12



Table of Contents



 


    The competitive environments in which each segment operates are
    described below


 



    Consumer
    Products


 


    Some of the channels in which our consumer products are offered
    are highly competitive. Our competitors are sometimes intensely
    focused on customer acquisition, which has led such competitors
    to offer their technology for free, engage in aggressive
    marketing, or enter into competitive partnerships.


 


    Our primary competitors in the Consumer Products segment are
    McAfee, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, and Trend Micro, Inc. There
    are also several smaller regional security companies that we
    compete against primarily in the EMEA and Asia Pacific Japan
    regions. During fiscal 2007, Microsoft launched a security suite
    that competes with our consumer products. This security suite
    includes antispyware and antivirus features, PC tuneup, a
    managed two-way firewall, and a backup utility. In addition,
    Microsoft has recently added security features to new versions
    of its operating system products that provide some of the same
    functions offered in our products.


 



    Security
    and Data Management


 


    In the security and data management markets, we compete against
    many companies that offer competing products to our technology
    solutions and competing services to our response and support
    services. Our primary competitors in the security market are
    McAfee, Trend Micro, Cisco Systems, Inc, and Microsoft. There
    are also several smaller regional security companies that we
    compete against primarily in the EMEA and APJ regions. The
    market for data protection products is characterized by ongoing
    technological innovation. Many of our strategic partners offer
    software products that compete with our products or have
    announced their intention to focus on developing or acquiring
    their own backup, archive, and data restoration software
    products. Our primary competitors in the data protection
    business are International Business Machines Corporation, or
    IBM, CA, Inc., EMC Corporation, CommVault Systems, Inc., and
    Microsoft. In the managed security services business, our
    primary competitors are VeriSign, Inc. and IBM.


 


    Recent security acquisitions and offerings by EMC, IBM and
    Microsoft are indicators of the move into the security market
    which could lead to the release of stand-alone enterprise
    products or to the inclusion of security functionality in future
    versions of the operating system products. With security being a
    required solution for enterprises of all sizes, we believe that
    product differentiation is essential for us to maintain our
    leadership position. We are focused on integrating next
    generation technology capabilities into our solution set in
    order to differentiate ourselves from the competition.


 



    Data
    Center Management


 


    The markets for data center management are intensely
    competitive. In the areas of storage management, application
    management and server management, our primary competitors are
    EMC, IBM, Hewlett-Packard Company, or HP, Sun Microsystems,
    Inc., Oracle Corporation, and Microsoft.


 



    Services


 


    We believe that the principal competitive factors for our
    services segment include technical capability, customer
    responsiveness, and our ability to hire and retain talented and
    experienced services personnel. Our primary competitors in the
    services segment are EMC, HP, IBM, and regional specialized
    consulting firms.


 



    Intellectual
    Property


 



    Protective
    Measures


 


    We regard some of the features of our internal operations,
    software, and documentation as proprietary and rely on
    copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws,
    confidentiality procedures, contractual arrangements, and



    
    13



Table of Contents




    other measures to protect our proprietary information. Our
    intellectual property is an important and valuable asset that
    enables us to gain recognition for our products, services, and
    technology and enhance our competitive position.


 


    As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter
    into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, distributors,
    and corporate partners, and we enter into license agreements
    with respect to our software, documentation, and other
    proprietary information. These license agreements are generally
    non-transferable and have a perpetual term. We also educate our
    employees on trade secret protection and employ measures to
    protect our facilities, equipment, and networks.


 



    Trademarks,
    Patents, Copyrights, and Licenses


 


    Symantec and the Symantec logo are trademarks or registered
    trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. In addition to
    Symantec and the Symantec logo, we have used, registered,
    and/or
    applied to register other specific trademarks and service marks
    to help distinguish our products, technologies, and services
    from those of our competitors in the U.S. and foreign countries
    and jurisdictions. We enforce our trademark, service mark, and
    trade name rights in the U.S. and abroad. The duration of our
    trademark registrations varies from country to country, and in
    the U.S. we generally are able to maintain our trademark
    rights and renew any trademark registrations for as long as the
    trademarks are in use.


 


    We have a number of U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending
    patent applications, including patents and rights to patent
    applications acquired through strategic transactions, which
    relate to various aspects of our products and technology. The
    duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the country
    of issuance and for the U.S. is typically 17 years
    from the date of issuance of the patent or 20 years from
    the date of filing of the patent application resulting in the
    patent, which we believe is adequate relative to the expected
    lives of our products.


 


    Our products are protected under U.S. and international
    copyright laws and laws related to the protection of
    intellectual property and proprietary information. We take
    measures to label such products with the appropriate proprietary
    rights notices, and we actively enforce such rights in the U.S.
    and abroad. However, these measures may not provide sufficient
    protection, and our intellectual property rights may be
    challenged. In addition, we license some intellectual property
    from third parties for use in our products, and generally must
    rely on the third party to protect the licensed intellectual
    property rights. While we believe that our ability to maintain
    and protect our intellectual property rights is important to our
    success, we also believe that our business as a whole is not
    materially dependent on any particular patent, trademark,
    license, or other intellectual property right.


 



    Seasonality


 


    As is typical for many large software companies, our business is
    seasonal. Software license and maintenance orders are generally
    higher in our third and fourth fiscal quarters and lower in our
    first and second fiscal quarters. A significant decline in
    license and maintenance orders is typical in the first quarter
    of our fiscal year as compared to license and maintenance orders
    in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. In addition, we
    generally receive a higher volume of software license and
    maintenance orders in the last month of a quarter, with orders
    concentrated in the later part of that month. We believe that
    this seasonality primarily reflects customer spending patterns
    and budget cycles, as well as the impact of compensation
    incentive plans for our sales personnel. Revenue generally
    reflects similar seasonal patterns but to a lesser extent than
    orders because revenue is not recognized until an order is
    shipped or services are performed and other revenue recognition
    criteria are met.


 



    Employees


 


    As of March 31, 2007, we employed approximately
    17,100 people worldwide, approximately 54 percent of
    whom reside in the U.S. Approximately 6,000 employees work
    in sales, marketing, and related activities; 5,000 in product
    development; 3,600 in support and services; and 2,500 in
    management, manufacturing, and administration.


 



    Other
    Information


 


    Our Internet address is www.symantec.com. We make
    available free of charge on our website our annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those



    
    14



Table of Contents




    reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or
    15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable
    after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it
    to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Other than
    the information expressly set forth in this annual report, the
    information contained, or referred to, on our website is not
    part of this annual report.


 


    The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the
    SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE,
    Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain
    information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by
    calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers, such as us, that file
    electronically with the SEC.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    A description of the risk factors associated with our business
    is set forth below. The list is not exhaustive and you should
    carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before
    investing in our common stock.


 



    If we
    are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services
    that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable
    to continually improve the performance, features, and
    reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our
    business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business
    and operating results could be adversely affected.


 


    Our future success depends on our ability to respond to the
    rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or
    introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a
    timely basis. We have in the past incurred, and will continue to
    incur, significant research and development expenses as we
    strive to remain competitive. New product development and
    introduction involves a significant commitment of time and
    resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Managing the length of the development cycle for new products
    and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than
    we originally expected



 


     
        • 

    
    Adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to
    technological developments by our competitors and customers



 


     
        • 

    
    Extending the operation of our products and services to new
    platforms and operating systems



 


     
        • 

    
    Entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited
    experience



 


     
        • 

    
    Managing new product and service strategies, including
    integrating our various security and storage technologies,
    management solutions, customer service, and support into unified
    enterprise security and storage solutions



 


     
        • 

    
    Incorporating acquired products and technologies



 


     
        • 

    
    Trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new
    products



 


     
        • 

    
    Developing or expanding efficient sales channels



 


     
        • 

    
    Obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access
    from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to
    enable the development and deployment of interoperable products,
    including source code licenses for certain products with deep
    technical integration into operating systems





 


    In addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace
    with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted.
    In connection with our enterprise software offerings, we license
    our applications on a variety of bases, such as per server, per
    processor, or based on performance criteria such as per amount
    of data processed or stored. If enterprises migrate towards
    solutions, such as virtualization, which allow enterprises to
    run multiple applications and operating systems on a single
    server and thereby reduce the number of servers they are
    required to own and operate, we may experience lower license
    revenues unless we are able to successfully change our
    enterprise licensing model to take into account the impact of
    these new solutions.



    
    15



Table of Contents



 


    If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges,
    or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not
    technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance,
    our business and operating results could be adversely affected.


 



    Fluctuations
    in demand for our products and services are driven by many
    factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could
    adversely affect our financial results.


 


    We are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and
    services due to a variety of factors, including competition,
    product obsolescence, technological change, budget constraints
    of our actual and potential customers, levels of broadband
    usage, awareness of security threats to IT systems, and other
    factors. While such factors may, in some periods, increase
    product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact
    our product sales. As attention to security threats fluctuates,
    the growth rates in sales of security products have been
    impacted, particularly in our Consumer Products segment. If
    demand for our products declines, our revenues and gross margin
    could be adversely affected.


 



    We
    operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors
    may gain market share in the markets for our products that could
    adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to
    decline.


 


    We operate in intensely competitive markets that experience
    rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards,
    changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product
    introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate
    or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new
    competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our
    competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop
    in revenues that could adversely affect our business and
    operating results. To compete successfully, we must maintain a
    successful research and development effort to develop new
    products and services and enhance existing products and
    services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or
    product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to
    competitive strategy, and effectively adapt to technological
    changes and changes in the ways that our information is
    accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer
    markets. If we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors
    or to changing technological and customer demands, we could
    experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our
    financial results.


 


    Our traditional competitors include independent software vendors
    that offer software products that directly compete with our
    product offerings. In addition to competing with these vendors
    directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with
    them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the
    product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer
    hardware OEMs and ISPs. Our competitors could gain market share
    from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products
    with the products of our competitors or if they more actively
    promote our competitors’ products than our products. In
    addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with
    theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or
    other vendors’ software or may limit our access to standard
    product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products
    for their platform.


 


    We face growing competition from network equipment and computer
    hardware manufacturers and large operating system providers.
    These firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into
    their products data protection and storage and server management
    software that competes at some levels with our product
    offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected
    to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality
    incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our
    products. Microsoft has added remote access features to its
    operating systems and has made announcements of actual and
    anticipated product features and new product offerings that
    compete with a number of our product offerings. In addition, we
    believe that Microsoft has recently made changes to its
    operating systems that make it more difficult for independent
    security vendors to provide solutions for their customers. We
    could be adversely affected if customers, particularly
    consumers, perceive that features incorporated into the
    Microsoft operating system reduce the need for our products or
    if they prefer to purchase other Microsoft products that are
    bundled with its operating systems and compete with our products.


 


    Another growing industry trend is the software-as-a-service
    (SaaS) business model, whereby software vendors develop and host
    their applications for use by customers over the Internet. This
    allows enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially
    licensed, internally operated software without the associated
    complexity or high initial
    set-up and
    operational costs. Advances in the SaaS business model could
    enable the growth of our competitors and



    
    16



Table of Contents




    could affect the success of our traditional software licensing
    models. We have recently released our own SaaS offerings;
    however, it is uncertain whether our SaaS strategy will prove
    successful or whether we will be able to successfully
    incorporate our SaaS offering into our current licensing models.
    Our inability to successfully develop and market SaaS product
    offerings could cause us to lose business to competitors.


 


    Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical,
    sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently
    may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their
    products instead of ours. We also face competition from many
    smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the
    markets in which we compete.


 



    If we
    fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively
    or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to
    their customers, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    We sell our products to customers around the world through
    multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. Sales through
    these different channels involve distinct risks, including the
    following:


 


    Direct Sales.  A significant portion of our
    revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our
    direct sales force to end-users. Special risks associated with
    this sales channel include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts



 


     
        • 

    
    Difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales
    force



 


     
        • 

    
    Substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to
    become productive, including regular updates to cover new and
    revised products





 


    Indirect Sales Channels.  A significant portion
    of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels,
    including distributors that sell our products to end-users and
    other resellers. This channel involves a number of risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products
    to end-users



 


     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers



 


     
        • 

    
    Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally
    nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause



 


     
        • 

    
    Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute
    competing products and may, from time to time, place greater
    emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing,
    promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors





 


    OEM Sales Channels.  A significant portion of
    our revenues is derived from sales through our OEM partners that
    incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with,
    their products. Our reliance on this sales channel involves many
    risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our lack of control over the shipping dates or volume of systems
    shipped



 


     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners are generally not subject to minimum sales
    requirements or any obligation to market our products to their
    customers



 


     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements
    with us and new terms may be less favorable due, among other
    things, to an increasingly competitive relationship with certain
    partners



 


     
        • 

    
    Sales through our OEM partners are subject to changes in
    strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that
    could result in reduction of OEM sales



 


     
        • 

    
    The development work that we must generally undertake under our
    agreements with our OEM partners may require us to invest
    significant resources and incur significant costs with little or
    no associated revenues



 


     
        • 

    
    The time and expense required for the sales and marketing
    organizations of our OEM partners to become familiar with our
    products may make it more difficult to introduce those products
    to the market






    
    17



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our OEM partners may develop, market, and distribute their own
    products and market and distribute products of our competitors,
    which could reduce our sales





 


    If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels
    successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or
    otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce
    our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our
    competitive position. Some of our distribution partners have
    experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our
    partners suffer financial difficulties in the future, we may
    have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could
    adversely affect our operating results. In addition, reliance on
    multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause
    unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that
    we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could
    result in adverse operating results in future periods.


 



    We
    have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that
    give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect
    our future financial results.


 


    We have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the
    future, other businesses, business units, and technologies.
    Acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and
    challenges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of
    acquired business operations, workforce, products, and
    technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee
    base, product lines, and technology



 


     
        • 

    
    Diversion of management time and attention from our existing
    business and other business opportunities



 


     
        • 

    
    Loss or termination of employees, including costs associated
    with the termination or replacement of those employees



 


     
        • 

    
    Assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired
    business, including litigation related to the acquired business



 


     
        • 

    
    The incurrence of additional acquisition-related debt as well as
    increased expenses and working capital requirements



 


     
        • 

    
    Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders



 


     
        • 

    
    Increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with
    Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act



 


     
        • 

    
    Substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related
    expenses, write-off of in-process research and development,
    impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and
    stock-based compensation expense





 


    Integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be
    a complex, time consuming, and expensive process, and can impact
    the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting. For example, as disclosed in Item 9A in this
    annual report, we have remediated a material weakness in our
    internal control over financial reporting that was largely
    related to Symantec having insufficient personnel resources with
    adequate expertise to properly manage the increased volume and
    complexity of income tax matters arising from the acquisition of
    Veritas.


 


    If integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we
    may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or
    undergo other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee.
    To integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our
    technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and
    manage the personnel of the acquired operations. We also must
    effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired
    business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various
    interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no
    or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have
    stronger market positions.


 


    Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability
    to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired
    businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of
    acquisitions. In addition, because acquisitions of high
    technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be
    given that our previous or future acquisitions will be
    successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating
    results, or financial condition.



    
    18



Table of Contents



 



    We
    have not historically maintained substantial levels of
    indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of
    operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively
    manage our liabilities.


 


    In June 2006, we sold $2.1 billion in aggregate principal
    amount of convertible senior notes. As a result of the sale of
    the notes, we have a substantially greater amount of long term
    debt than we have maintained in the past. In addition, we have
    entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of
    $1 billion. Our credit facility allows us immediate access
    to domestic funds if we identify opportunities for its use. We
    may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our
    maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect
    our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate
    opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition
    and results of operations.


 



    Our
    international operations involve risks that could increase our
    expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require
    increased time and attention of our management.


 


    We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers
    located outside of the U.S. and we have significant operations
    outside of the U.S., including engineering, sales, customer
    support, and production. We plan to expand our international
    operations, but such expansion is contingent upon the financial
    performance of our existing international operations as well as
    our identification of growth opportunities. Our international
    operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by
    our domestic operations, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential loss of proprietary information due to
    misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our
    intellectual property rights than U.S. laws



 


     
        • 

    
    Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls,
    including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that
    reduce the flexibility of our business operations



 


     
        • 

    
    Regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of
    encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the
    acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks
    for secure communications



 


     
        • 

    
    Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate
    cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in
    international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the
    U.S.



 


     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability
    such as higher interest rates in the U.S. and inflation that
    could reduce our customers’ ability to obtain financing for
    software products or that could make our products more expensive
    or could increase our costs of doing business in certain
    countries



 


     
        • 

    
    Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current
    levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest
    sufficiently in our international operations



 


     
        • 

    
    Longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and
    difficulties in collecting accounts receivable



 


     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our
    international operations, including difficulties related to
    administering our stock plans in some foreign countries



 


     
        • 

    
    Difficulties in coordinating the activities of our
    geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations



 


     
        • 

    
    Seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in
    Europe and in other periods in other countries



 


     
        • 

    
    Reduced sales due to the failure to obtain any required export
    approval of our technologies, particularly our encryption
    technologies



 


     
        • 

    
    Costs and delays associated with developing software in multiple
    languages



 


     
        • 

    
    Political unrest, war, or terrorism, particularly in areas in
    which we have facilities





 


    A significant portion of our transactions outside of the
    U.S. are denominated in foreign currencies. Accordingly,
    our future operating results will continue to be subject to
    fluctuations in foreign currency rates. We may be negatively
    affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the
    future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a
    percentage of our total sales.



    
    19



Table of Contents



 


    The level of corporate tax from sales to our
    non-U.S. customers
    is less than the level of tax from sales to our
    U.S. customers. This benefit is contingent upon existing
    tax regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which our
    international operations are located. Future changes in domestic
    or international tax regulations could adversely affect our
    ability to continue to realize these tax benefits.


 



    Our
    products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer
    configurations, which could result in errors or product
    failures.


 


    Because we offer very complex products, undetected errors,
    failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first
    introduced or when new versions are released. Our products are
    often installed and used in large-scale computing environments
    with different operating systems, system management software,
    and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause
    errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected
    errors, failures, or bugs in our products. Our customers’
    computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety
    of standard and non-standard configurations that make
    pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very
    difficult and time-consuming. In addition, despite testing by us
    and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new
    products or releases until after commencement of commercial
    shipments. In the past, we have discovered software errors,
    failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after
    their introduction and, in some cases, may have experienced
    delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors.


 


    Errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could
    result in negative publicity, product returns, loss of or delay
    in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive
    position, or claims by customers or others. Many of our end-user
    customers use our products in applications that are critical to
    their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects
    in our products than to defects in other, less critical,
    software products. In addition, if an actual or perceived breach
    of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our
    end-user customer’s systems, regardless of whether the
    breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of
    the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. Alleviating
    any of these problems could require significant expenditures of
    our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions,
    delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause
    us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely
    affect our operating results.


 



    If we
    are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key
    personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully,
    or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be
    unable to develop new and enhanced products and services,
    effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our
    revenues.


 


    Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and
    retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance,
    and other critical personnel. Our officers and other key
    personnel are
    employees-at-will,
    and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them.
    Competition for people with the specific skills that we require
    is significant. In order to attract and retain personnel in a
    competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a
    competitive compensation package, including cash and
    equity-based compensation. The volatility in our stock price may
    from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or
    retain employees. In addition, we may be unable to obtain
    required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number
    of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation
    plans, and recent changes in accounting rules require us to
    treat the issuance of employee stock options and other forms of
    equity-based compensation as compensation expense. As a result,
    we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be
    impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary
    personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified
    employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee
    performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market
    conditions, our business and operating results could be
    adversely affected.


 


    Key personnel have left our company in the past and there likely
    will be additional departures of key personnel from time to time
    in the future. The loss of any key employee could result in
    significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely
    affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful
    implementation and completion of company initiatives, the
    effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our
    internal control over financial reporting, and the results of
    our operations. In addition, hiring, training, and successfully
    integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time
    consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations,
    and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future
    revenues.



    
    20



Table of Contents



 



    We are
    a party to several class action lawsuits, which could require
    significant management time and attention and result in
    significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined
    favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition,
    results of operations, and cash flows.


 


    We have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we
    may be named in additional litigation. The expense of defending
    such litigation may be costly and divert management’s
    attention from the
    day-to-day
    operations of our business, which could adversely affect our
    business, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, an
    unfavorable outcome in such litigation could negatively impact
    our business, results of operations, and cash flows.


 



    Third
    parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could
    cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from
    selling our products.


 


    From time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the
    intellectual property rights of others, including claims
    regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. In addition,
    former employers of our former, current, or future employees may
    assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to
    us the confidential or proprietary information of these former
    employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result
    in costly litigation and distract management from
    day-to-day
    operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims,
    we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or
    redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter
    into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy
    indemnification obligations that we have with some of our
    customers.


 


    In addition, we license and use software from third parties in
    our business. These third party software licenses may not
    continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all,
    and may expose us to additional liability. This liability, or
    our inability to use any of this third party software, could
    result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business
    that could materially and adversely affect our operating results.


 



    If we
    do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third
    parties from making unauthorized use of our products and
    technology, our financial results could be harmed.


 


    Most of our software and underlying technology are proprietary.
    We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination
    of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through
    copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. However,
    all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be
    challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. Third
    parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise
    obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information
    without authorization. Third parties may also develop similar or
    superior technology independently by designing around our
    patents. Our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by
    licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of
    some jurisdictions. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign
    countries do not offer the same level of protection of our
    proprietary rights as the laws of the U.S., and we may be
    subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries.
    The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary
    information could result in reduced sales of our products. Any
    legal action to protect proprietary information that we may
    bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could
    adversely affect our ability to access software, operating
    system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or
    cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products
    to their customers. In addition, any legal action to protect
    proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in,
    alone or through our alliances with the Business Software
    Alliance (BSA), or the Software & Information Industry
    Association (SIIA), could be costly, may distract management
    from
    day-to-day
    operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Some
    of our products contain “open source” software, and
    any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these
    open source licenses could negatively affect our
    business.


 


    Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed
    by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open
    source” licenses, which may include, by way of example, the
    GNU General Public License (GPL), GNU Lesser General Public
    License (LGPL), the Mozilla Public License, the BSD License, and
    the Apache License. Some of these licenses contain requirements
    that we make available source code for modifications or



    
    21



Table of Contents




    derivative works we create based upon the open source software,
    and that we license such modifications or derivative works under
    the terms of a particular open source license or other license
    granting third parties certain rights of further use. If we
    combine our proprietary software with open source software in a
    certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source
    licenses, be required to release the source code of our
    proprietary software. In addition to risks related to license
    requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater
    risks than use of third party commercial software, as open
    source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls
    on origin of the software. We have established processes to help
    alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening
    requests from our development organizations for the use of open
    source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted
    for approval prior to use in our products. In addition, many of
    the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be
    eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively
    affect our business.


 



    Our
    software products and website may be subject to intentional
    disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future
    sales.


 


    Although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to
    prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing
    target of attacks specifically designed to impede the
    performance of our products. Similarly, experienced computer
    programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the
    security of our website and misappropriate proprietary
    information or cause interruptions of our services. Because the
    techniques used by such computer programmers to access or
    sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized
    until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate
    these techniques. Our activities could be adversely affected and
    our reputation and future sales harmed if these intentionally
    disruptive efforts are successful.


 



    Increased
    customer demands on our technical support services may adversely
    affect our relationships with our customers and our financial
    results.


 


    We offer technical support services with many of our products.
    We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate
    short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We
    also may be unable to modify the format of our support services
    to compete with changes in support services provided by
    competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers.
    Further customer demand for these services, without
    corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    We have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide
    consumer support functions to third party service providers. If
    these companies experience financial difficulties, do not
    maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy
    our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient
    level under these contracts, the level of support services to
    our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could
    materially harm our relationships with these customers.


 



    Accounting
    charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial
    results.


 


    Our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to
    be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other
    accounting charges, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product
    rights



 


     
        • 

    
    Impairment of goodwill



 


     
        • 

    
    Stock-based compensation expense



 


     
        • 

    
    Restructuring charges



 


     
        • 

    
    Impairment of long-lived assets





 


    For example, in connection with our acquisition of Veritas, we
    have recorded approximately $2.8 billion of acquired
    product rights and other intangible assets and $8.6 billion
    of goodwill. We have recorded and will continue to record future
    amortization charges with respect to a portion of these
    intangible assets and stock-based compensation expense related
    to the stock options to purchase Veritas common stock assumed by
    us. In addition, we will evaluate our long-lived assets,
    including property and equipment, goodwill, acquired product
    rights, and other intangible assets, whenever events or
    circumstances occur which indicate that these assets might be
    impaired.



    
    22



Table of Contents




    Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment in the fourth
    quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events and
    circumstances warrant, and our evaluation depends to a large
    degree on estimates and assumptions made by our management. Our
    assessment of any impairment of goodwill is based on a
    comparison of the fair value of each of our reporting units to
    the carrying value of that reporting unit. Our determination of
    fair value relies on management’s assumptions of our future
    revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. If
    management’s estimates of future operating results change,
    or if there are changes to other assumptions such as the
    discount rate applied to future operating results, the estimate
    of the fair value of our reporting units could change
    significantly, which could result in a goodwill impairment
    charge.


 


    The foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred
    in connection with or as a result of other business
    acquisitions. The price of our common stock could decline to the
    extent that our financial results are materially affected by the
    foregoing accounting charges.


 



    Our
    effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income
    tax expense and reduce our net income.


 


    Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several
    factors, many of which are outside of our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income
    before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate
    that have differing statutory tax rates



 


     
        • 

    
    Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple
    jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of
    certain tax rulings



 


     
        • 

    
    The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and
    restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between
    reporting periods



 


     
        • 

    
    Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could
    significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in
    which the settlements take place.





 


    The price of our common stock could decline if our financial
    results are materially affected by an adverse change in our
    effective tax rate.


 


    We report our results of operations based on our determinations
    of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in
    which we operate. From time to time, we receive notices that a
    tax authority to which we are subject has determined that we owe
    a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority,
    and we are regularly engaged in discussions, and sometimes
    disputes, with these tax authorities. We are engaged in disputes
    of this nature at this time. If the ultimate determination of
    our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in
    excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for,
    our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could
    be adversely affected.


 



    Fluctuations
    in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of
    our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in
    the future.


 


    Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and
    are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number
    of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which
    could adversely affect our operations and operating results. If
    our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future
    financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities
    analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively
    affected. Any volatility in our quarterly financial results may
    make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or
    pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. Our
    operating results for prior periods may not be effective
    predictors of our future performance.


 


    Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our
    business, and the markets for our products may cause our
    quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Reduced demand for any of our products



 


     
        • 

    
    Entry of new competition into our markets






    
    23



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of
    products



 


     
        • 

    
    Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced
    versions of our products



 


     
        • 

    
    The number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms
    and viruses)



 


     
        • 

    
    Our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases
    near the end of each quarter



 


     
        • 

    
    Enterprise customers’ tendency to negotiate site licenses
    near the end of each quarter



 


     
        • 

    
    Cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers



 


     
        • 

    
    Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates



 


     
        • 

    
    Movement in interest rates



 


     
        • 

    
    The rate of adoption of new product technologies and new
    releases of operating systems



 


     
        • 

    
    Weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry
    conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate
    that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our
    products and services



 


     
        • 

    
    Political and military instability, which could slow spending
    within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise
    adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate
    effectively



 


     
        • 

    
    Budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by
    corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending
    objectives



 


     
        • 

    
    Disruptions in our highly automated business operations caused
    by, among other things,





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our
    headquarters located in Silicon Valley, California, an area
    known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide



 


     
        • 

    
    Acts of war or terrorism



 


     
        • 

    
    Intentional disruptions by third parties





 


    Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of
    our common stock to fluctuate significantly.


 



    Our
    stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose
    the value of your investment.


 


    The market price of our common stock has experienced significant
    fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the
    future, and as a result you could lose the value of your
    investment. The market price of our common stock may be affected
    by a number of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and
    earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with
    our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or
    securities analysts



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail
    to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the
    expectations of our investors or securities analysts



 


     
        • 

    
    Rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our or our
    competitors’ operations, management, organization,
    financial condition, or financial statements



 


     
        • 

    
    Changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors,
    or securities analysts



 


     
        • 

    
    Accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment
    of goodwill



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements of planned acquisitions by us or by our competitors



 


     
        • 

    
    Announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors,
    or our customers



 


     
        • 

    
    Gain or loss of a significant customer



 


     
        • 

    
    Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other
    regulatory bodies



 


     
        • 

    
    Acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or
    emergency situations






    
    24



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic
    slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate





 


    The stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of
    technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme
    price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue
    to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for
    reasons unrelated to our business or operating results.


 



    Problems
    with our information systems could interfere with our business
    and operations.


 


    We rely on our information systems and those of third parties
    for processing customer orders, shipping of products, providing
    services and support to our customers, billing and tracking our
    customers, fulfilling contractual obligations, and otherwise
    running our business. Any disruption in our information systems
    and those of the third parties upon whom we rely could have a
    significant impact on our business. In addition, we are in the
    process of enhancing our information systems. The implementation
    of these types of enhancements is frequently disruptive to the
    underlying business of an enterprise, which may especially be
    the case for us due to the size and complexity of our
    businesses. Any disruptions relating to our systems
    enhancements, particularly any disruptions impacting our
    operations during the implementation period, could adversely
    affect our business in a number of respects. Even if we do not
    encounter these adverse effects, the implementation of these
    enhancements may be much more costly than we anticipated. If we
    are unable to successfully implement the information systems
    enhancements as planned, our financial position, results of
    operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B