ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors        

        The reader should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained within this document. The most important
factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the
following: 

 Risks Specific to Our Company  

         Competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material
adverse
effect on our business and financial results.    In most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and
distribution resources than Molson Coors, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. In all of the markets in which Molson Coors operates, aggressive marketing strategies
by these competitors could adversely affect our financial results. Moreover, each of our major markets is mature. 

         Our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more of these products or
markets
could materially adversely affect our financial results.    Our Molson Canadian and Coors
Light brands in Canada, Miller Lite and Coors Light brands in the U.S., and  Carling
brand in the U.K. represented more than half of each respective segment's sales in 2010. Consequently, any material shift in consumer
preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

         If Pentland and the Coors Trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other
stockholders.    Pentland Securities (a company controlled by the Molson family, related parties) ("Pentland") and the Coors Trust, which together control more than
two-thirds of our Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of
our Class A common stock and the Class A exchangeable shares that they own. In the event that these 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg42801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



two
stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the
Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. There is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential
deadlock between these stockholders. Therefore, if either Pentland or the Coors Trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement
the proposal even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. Similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds)
of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. Thus it is possible that the Company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the
board. 

         Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact liquidity and results of
operations.    Our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount
rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required
and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. While we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans'
assets. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the
plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position, or results of operations. 

         We rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. The inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce
our
products.    We purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum, glass and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. Consolidation of the
packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. The inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without
sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

         Termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.    We
manufacture and/or
distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint ventures, licensing, distribution or other arrangements. The loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry
consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of one or more reporting segments. 


        We may not properly execute, or realize the anticipated $150 million of cost savings or benefits from, our ongoing cost savings
initiatives.    Our success is partly dependent upon properly executing and realizing cost savings or other benefits from the additional cost savings initiatives, our
second Resources for Growth ("RFG2"), identified during 2009. These initiatives are primarily designed to make the company more efficient across the business, which is a necessity in our highly
competitive industry. These initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in a strain on the
company's sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or finance and accounting functions. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 

         Changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition.    Our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing
requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise
locations, and other matters. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation and 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg42801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



political
debate. Failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations
could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
Finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized on a global basis, seeking to impose regulations to curtail
substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. To the extent such views gain traction in national regulations where we do or plan to do business, they
could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 

         Our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly
the British pound ("GBP") and the Canadian dollar ("CAD").    We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most
significantly in Canada and in the U.K. Since our financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into USD. Increases and
decreases in the value of the USD will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. To the extent that we fail
to adequately manage these risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and
adversely impacted. 

        Our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.<FONT
SIZE=2>    We use a
large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, corn, other various starches, water, and packaging materials, including aluminum,
cardboard and other paper products. We also use a significant amount of diesel fuel in our operations. The supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of
factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and
other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, plant diseases, and theft. To the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our
hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. 

         The success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, and product quality.    It is important we have the ability
to maintain and
increase the image and reputation of our existing products. Concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. Deterioration to
our brand equity may have a material effect on our business and financial results. 

         Due to a high concentration of unionized workers in Canada, the United Kingdom, and at MillerCoors in the U.S., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages,
 or
other employee-related issues.    Approximately 62%, 23% and 36% of our Canadian, U.K., and MillerCoors' workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions.
We believe relations with our employees and those of MillerCoors are good. Stringent labor laws in the U.K. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market.
Any labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 

         Changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business.    In our U.S. market,
there is a
three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products now sold through MillerCoors (including our non-U.S. products). That system is
increasingly subject to the legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. To the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the
three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse impact on MillerCoors and, consequently, MCBC. Further, in certain Canadian provinces, our products are distributed through
joint 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg42801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



venture
arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. If provincial regulation should change, effectively eliminating the distribution channels, the costs to adjust
our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. 


        Changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could adversely impact our business.    Our business includes various joint
venture and industry
agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. Examples include the returnable bottle system in Canada, as well as warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint
venture agreements with other brewers. Any change in these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

         Because of our reliance on third-party service providers for certain administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business.<FONT
SIZE=2>    We
rely exclusively on one information services provider worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware, and software configuration. We also have outsourced a
significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources, and other information technology functions to a third-party service provider. If one of these service providers
were to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. 

         We may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives.    In
connection with
various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. These
assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. Potential
resulting charges could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. 

         Climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business.    There is concern that a gradual increase in global
average temperatures
could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with
increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural
commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production
capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation
and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term, material adverse
impact on our business and results of operations. There are also water availability risks. Climate change may cause water scarcity and a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain
brewing operations. The competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. Even where water is widely available, water
purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. 

 Risks Specific to the Canada Segment  

         We may experience continued discounting in Canada.    The continuation, or the increase of such discounting, in Ontario,
Québec, Alberta
or other provinces, could adversely impact our business. 

 Risks Specific to the U.S. Segment and MillerCoors  

         We do not fully control the operations and administration of MillerCoors, which represents our interests in the U.S. beer business.<FONT
SIZE=2>    We jointly
control MillerCoors with SABMiller, and hold a 42% economic 

18




 


<A
HREF="#bg42801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

interest.
MillerCoors management is responsible for the day to day operations of the business and therefore, we do not have full control over the activities of MillerCoors. Our results of operations
are dependent upon the efforts of MillerCoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with SABMiller, and factors beyond our control that may affect SABMiller. Additionally,
our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to MillerCoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. 

         We may incur unexpected costs or face other business issues from MillerCoors due to challenges associated with integrating operations, technologies, and other aspects of the
operations.    MillerCoors management team continues to focus on fully integrating ours and SABMiller's U.S. operations, technologies, and services, as well as the
distribution networks including the resolution of disputes arising from the consolidation of distributors arising from the MillerCoors joint venture. The failure of MillerCoors to successfully
integrate the two operations could adversely affect our financial results or prospects. 

         MillerCoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the United States to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our
products.    MillerCoors sells all of its products and our non-U.S. products in the United States to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the
regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. Consequently, if MillerCoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors,
their business, financial position, and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 

 Risks Specific to the United Kingdom Segment  

         A failure to successfully implement SAP, as our integrated accounting/ financial reporting and logistics management systems (including those within our Tradeteam partner) in our
U.K.
segment in mid 2011 could
adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our customer order and production planning processes, as well as to report results in a timely and accurate
manner.    In mid 2011, we plan to implement SAP and new related processes for all our general ledger accounting and transaction activities, as well our logistics and
production planning processes. Some companies have experienced startup difficulties with similar projects. If our contingency plans fail, we face certain risks when the system is implemented,
including the ability to operate cost-effectively, deliver on customer orders, collect cash from sales and report the results of operations. Additionally, we may not achieve the benefits
we expect from these re-engineered processes. 

        Sales volume trends in the United Kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts
our profitability.    In recent years, beer volume sales in the U.K. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores
(off-premise), for the industry in general. A ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the U.K. enacted in 2007 accelerated this trend. Margins on sales to
off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely
impact our profitability. 

        Consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the United Kingdom could unfavorably impact pricing.    The trend
toward consolidation of
pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the United Kingdom. These larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could
impact our ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to the spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. In
addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. Further consolidation could
contribute to an adverse financial impact. 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg42801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

         In the event that a significant pub chain were to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely
impacted.    We extend credit to pub chains in the U.K., and in some cases the amounts are significant. The continuing challenging economic environment in the U.K.
has caused business at on-premise outlets to slow since late 2008, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty if economic conditions do not improve. In the event that a
pub chain were to be unable to pay amounts owed to the Company as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. 

         We depend exclusively on one logistics provider in England, Wales, and Scotland for distribution of our U.K. products.    Tradeteam
handles all of the
physical distribution for us in England, Wales and Scotland, except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. If Tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products
and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact. 

 Risks Specific to Our Discontinued Operations  

         Indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the Cervejarias Kaiser Brasil S.A. ("Kaiser") business in Brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of
operations
charges.    In 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in Kaiser to FEMSA Cerveza S.A. de C.V. ("FEMSA"). The terms of the sale agreement require us to
indemnify FEMSA for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. The ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. These indemnity
obligations are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in
our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these
contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. 

<A
NAME="dc42801_item_1b._unresolved_sec_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B