ITEM 1A.        Risk
Factors

The reader should carefully consider the following
factors and the other information contained within this document. The most
important factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, and cause
actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking
statements, include, but are not limited to, the following:

Risks
specific to our Company

If Pentland and the Coors Trust do not agree on a
matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved,
even if beneficial to the Company or favored by other stockholders.   Pentland and the Coors Trust, which together
control more than two-thirds of the Company’s Class A Common and
Exchangeable stock, have voting trust agreements through which they have
combined their voting power over the shares of our Class A common stock
and the Class A exchangeable shares that they own. However, in the event
that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted
to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting
trustees will be required to vote all of the Class A common stock and Class A
exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. There is
no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential
deadlock between these stockholders. Therefore, if either Pentland or the Coors
Trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a transaction that is subject to a
stockholder vote, we may be unable to complete the transaction even if our
board, management or other stockholders believe the transaction is beneficial
for Molson Coors.

Our success as an enterprise depends largely on the
success of three primary products in three mature markets; the failure or
weakening of one or more could materially adversely affect our financial
results.   Although we currently have 14 products in
our U.S. portfolio, Coors Light represented more than 71% of our U.S. segment’s
sales volume for 2006. Carling lager is the best-selling brand in the United
Kingdom and represented more than 77% of our European segment’s sales volume in
2006. The combination of the Molson Canadian and Coors Light brands represented
more than 42% of our Canada segment’s sales volume in 2006. Consequently, any
material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the
categories in which they compete, would have a disproportionately large adverse
impact on our business. Moreover, each of our three major markets is mature,
and we face large competitors who have greater financial, marketing and
distribution resources and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and
brand portfolios.

We have indebtedness that is substantial in relation
to our stockholders’ equity, which could hinder our ability to adjust to rapid
changes in market conditions or to respond to competitive pressures.   As of December 31, 2006, we had
approximately $850 million in debt primarily related to our acquisition of
CBL and $1.1 billion of debt primarily related to our Merger with Molson.
As a result, we must use a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay
interest on our debt. If our financial and operating performance does not
generate sufficient cash flow for all of our activities, our operations could
be adversely impacted.

We rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the
packaging we need to operate our business. The inability to obtain materials
could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products.   For our U.S. business, we purchase most of our
paperboard and container supplies from a single supplier or a small number of
suppliers. This packaging is unique and is not produced by any other supplier.
Additionally, we are 


 17 






contractually obligated to purchase substantially all
our can and bottle needs in the United States and Canada from our container
joint ventures or from our partners in those ventures, Ball Corporation (RMMC)
and Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc. (RMBC). Consolidation of
the glass bottle industry in North America has reduced local supply
alternatives and increased risks of glass bottle supply disruptions. CBL has a
single source for its can supply (Ball). The inability of any of these
suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to
develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our
business.

Our primary production facilities in Europe and the
United States are located at single sites, so we could be more vulnerable than
our competitors to transportation disruptions, fuel increases and natural
disasters.   Our primary production facility in the United
States is in Golden, Colorado, and in Europe, our primary production facility
is located in Burton-on-Trent, England. In both segments, our competitors have
multiple geographically dispersed breweries and packaging facilities. As a
result, we must ship our products greater distances than some of our
competitors, making us more vulnerable to fluctuations in costs such as fuel,
as well as the impact of any localized natural disasters should they occur.

The termination of one or more
manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on
our business.   We manufacture
and/or distribute products of other beverage companies, including those of one
or more competitors, through various licensing, distribution or other
arrangements in Canada and the United Kingdom. The loss of one or more of these
arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the results of one or more
reporting segments.

Because we will continue to face intense global
competition, operating results may be unfavorably impacted.   The
brewing industry is highly competitive and requires substantial human and
capital resources. Competition in our various markets could cause us to reduce
prices, increase capital and other expenditures or lose sales volume, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.
In addition, in some of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially
greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than Molson
Coors has. In all of the markets where Molson Coors operates, aggressive
marketing strategies by our main competitors could adversely affect our
financial results.

Changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or
failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.   Our business is highly regulated by federal,
state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding
such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling,
advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with
distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and
other matters. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result
in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals. In
addition, changes in tax, environmental or any other laws or regulations could
have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
of operations.

Our consolidated financial statements are subject to
fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the British pound
and the Canadian dollar.   We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn
revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in Canada
and in the United Kingdom. Since our financial statements are presented in USD,
we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into USD at
current exchange rates. Increases and decreases in the value of the USD will
affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial
statements, even if their local currency value has not changed.

Our operations face significant commodity price change
and foreign exchange rate exposure which could materially and adversely affect
our operating results.   We use a large volume of agricultural and
other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt,
hops, various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum and
paper products. We also use a significant amount of diesel 


 18 






fuel in our operations. The supply and price of these
raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our
control, including market demand, global geo-political events (especially as to
their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel
prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors
affecting growth decisions, plant diseases and theft. To the extent any of the
foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging, our results of
operations could be materially and adversely impacted. We have active hedging
programs to address commodity price and foreign exchange rate changes. However,
to the extent we fail to adequately manage the foregoing risks, including if
our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in
foreign currency rates or commodity price risks, including price risk
associated with diesel fuel and aluminum, both of which are at historically
high price levels, our results of operations may be adversely impacted.

We could be adversely affected by overall declines in
the beer market.   Consumer
trends in some global markets indicate increases in consumer preference for
wine and spirits, as well as for lower priced, value segment beer brands in some
Canadian markets, which could result in loss of volume or a deterioration of
operating margins.

Because of our reliance on a single information
technology service supplier, we could experience significant disruption to our
business.   We rely exclusively on one information
technology services provider worldwide for our network, help desk, hardware and
software configuration. If that service provider fails and we are unable to
find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly
administer our information technology systems.

Due to a high concentration of unionized workers in
the United Kingdom and Canada, we could be significantly affected by labor
strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues.   Approximately 67% of Molson’s total workforce
and approximately 23% of CBL’s total workforce is represented by trade unions.
Although we believe relations with our employees are good, stringent labor laws
in the United Kingdom expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience
labor disruptions in that market.

Changes to the
regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact
our business.   In 2006, the U.S.
Supreme Court ruled that certain state regulations of interstate wine shipments
are unlawful. As a result of this decision, states may alter the three-tier
distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of our
products. Changes to the three-tier distribution system could have a materially
adverse impact on our business. Further, in certain Canadian provinces, our
products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated
and regulated by provincial government regulators. If provincial regulation
should change, effectively eliminating the distribution channels, the costs to
adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our
business.

Risks
specific to our Discontinued Operations

Indemnities
provided to the purchaser of 83% of the Kaiser business in Brazil could result
in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges.   On January 13, 2006, we agreed to sell a
68% equity interest in Kaiser to FEMSA for $68 million cash, including the
assumption by FEMSA of Kaiser-related debt and certain contingencies. In November 2006,
we divested our remaining 15% ownership interest in Kaiser and received $15.7
million, resulting in an increase of FEMSA’s purchased ownership of Kaiser to
83%. The terms of our 2006 agreement require us to indemnify FEMSA for
exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain
purchased tax credits. The ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our
control, and we cannot predict the outcomes of administrative and judicial
proceedings that will occur with regard to these claims. It is possible that we
will have to make cash outlays to FEMSA with regard to these indemnities. While
the fair values of these indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on
our balance sheet in conjunction with the sale, we could incur future statement
of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our fair
value estimates or change in assessment of probability of loss on these items.
Due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these
contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity
liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could
result in the future.


 19 






Risks
specific to the Canada Segment

We may be required to provide funding to the entity
that owns the Montréal Canadiens hockey club and the related entertainment
business pursuant to the guarantees given to the National Hockey League (NHL).   Pursuant to certain guarantees given to the
NHL as a minority owner of the entertainment business and the Montréal
Canadiens professional hockey club (majority ownership sold by Molson in 2001),
Molson may have to provide funding to the Club (joint and severally based on
our 19.9% ownership) to meet its obligations and its operating expenses if the
Club cannot meet its obligations under various agreements.

An adverse result in a lawsuit brought by Miller could
have an adverse impact on our business.   In
December 2005, Miller Brewing Company sued the Company and several subsidiaries
in a Wisconsin federal court. Miller seeks to invalidate a licensing agreement
allowing Molson Canada the sole distribution of Miller products in Canada.
Miller claims U.S. and Canadian antitrust violations and violations of the
Agreement’s confidentiality provisions. Miller also claims that the Agreement’s
purposes have been frustrated as a result of the Molson Coors Merger. If Miller
were to prevail in this action, it could have an adverse impact on our business,
and we may be required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of
the $112.0 million carrying value of our intangible asset associated with
the Miller arrangements.

If we are unsuccessful in maintaining licensing,
distribution and related agreements, our business could suffer adverse effects.   We manufacture and/or distribute products of
other beverage companies in Canada, including those of one or more competitors,
through various licensing, distribution or other arrangements. The loss of one
or more of these arrangements could adversely impact our business.

If the Maritime
Provinces refuse to recognize our new brewery in Moncton, New Brunswick, as a “local
brewer,” we will not be able to use that facility as planned.   We are completing a brewery in Moncton,
New Brunswick. We decided to build it on the basis of assurances from Canada’s
Maritime Provinces (which include New Brunswick and Nova Scotia) that the
facility would qualify as a “local brewer,” under the Maritime Accord so that
beer shipped to other Maritime Provinces would be subject to much lower
handling fees than beer shipped from elsewhere in Canada. There is risk that
certain Maritime Provinces will not honor their previous assurances. If so, our
return on investment would be substantially lower than planned, and we may be
required to record an impairment charge on all or a portion of the $25.2 million
spent to construct the brewery.

Risks
specific to the U.S. Segment

Litigation directed at the alcohol beverage industry
may adversely affect our sales volumes, our business and our financial results.   Molson Coors and other brewers and distilled
spirits manufacturers have been sued in several courts regarding advertising
practices and underage consumption. The suits allege that each defendant
intentionally marketed its products to “children and other underage consumers.”
In essence, each suit seeks, on behalf of an undefined class of parents and
guardians, an injunction and unspecified money damages. We will vigorously
defend these lawsuits, several of which have been dismissed and are now on
appeal. It is not possible at this time to estimate the possible loss or range
of loss, if any, that may result from these lawsuits.

We are highly
dependent on independent distributors in the United States to sell our
products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell our
products.   We sell all of our products in the United
States to distributors for resale to retail outlets. Some of our distributors
are at a competitive disadvantage because they are smaller than the largest
distributors in their markets. Our distributors also sell products that compete
with our products. These distributors may give our competitors’ products higher
priority, thereby reducing sales of our products. In addition, the regulatory
environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors.
Consequently, if we are not allowed or are unable to replace unproductive or
inefficient distributors, our business, financial position and results of
operation may be adversely affected.


 20 






Risks
specific to the Europe Segment

Sales volume trends in the United Kingdom brewing
industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a
trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability.   We have noted in recent years that beer volume
sales in the U.K. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to
retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. The progression to a
ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the U.K. anticipated
to be effective in 2007 is likely to accelerate this trend. Margins on sales to
off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise
customers, hence these trends could adversely impact our profitability.

Consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub
chains in the United Kingdom could result in less ability to achieve favorable
pricing.   The trend toward consolidation of pubs, away
from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the United Kingdom.
These larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore
continuation of this trend could impact CBL’s ability to obtain favorable
pricing in the on-premise channel (due to spillover effect of reduced
negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. In
addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more
of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored
business. Further consolidation could impact us adversely.

We depend exclusively on one logistics provider in
England, Wales and Scotland for distribution of our CBL products.   We
are a party to a joint venture with DHL called Tradeteam. Tradeteam handles all
of the physical distribution for CBL in England, Wales and Scotland, except
where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. If Tradeteam
were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find
a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant
disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact.

We are reliant on a single third party as a supplier
for kegs in the United Kingdom.   Our
CBL business uses kegs managed by a logistics provider who is responsible for
providing an adequate stock of kegs as well as their upkeep. Due to greater
than anticipated keg losses as well as reduced fill fees (attributable to
reduced overall volume), the logistics provider has encountered financial
difficulty. As a result of action taken by the logistics provider's lending
institution, related to perceived financial difficulties of the borrower, the
logistics provider has been forced into administration (restructuring
proceedings) and the bank, on February 20, 2007, exercised its option to
put the keg population to CBL. As a result, we expect to purchase the existing
keg population from the logistics provider's lender at fair value pursuant to
the terms of the agreement between CBL and the logistics provider’s lender. We
estimate that this potential capital expenditure, which may be financed over a
period of time in excess of one year, could amount to approximately $70 million
to $100 million, which is not included in the 2007 capital expenditures
plan. As a result of this capital requirement, we may reduce other elements of
our 2007 capital expenditures plan, or offset risk posed by the potential keg
purchase through increased cash generation efforts.

We may incur
impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets
that have indefinite useful lives.   In
connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material
amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets
that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. These assets are tested
for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by
factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating
performance. In the event that the adverse financial impact of current trends
with respect to our U.K. business continue and including the potential impact
of an expected smoking ban in on-premise locations across the whole of the U.K.
in 2007 are worse than we anticipate, we may be required to record impairment
charges. This could be material and could adversely impact our results of
operations.

ITEM 1B