, Risk Factors.Our ProductsWe have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands which are positioned to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions in a variety of markets, including signature brands Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Carling and Staropramen.Brands sold in Canada include Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Molson Export, Molson Canadian 67, Molson Dry, Molson Canadian Cider, the Rickard's family of brands, Carling, Carling Black Label, Pilsner, Keystone Light, Creemore Springs, the Granville Island brands, Coors Banquet and a number of other regional brands. We also brew or distribute under license the following brands: Heineken, Amstel Light, Murphy's, Newcastle Brown Ale and Strongbow cider under license from Heineken N.V. ("Heineken"), and Miller Lite, Miller Genuine Draft, Miller Chill, Milwaukee's Best, and Milwaukee's Best Dry under license from SABMiller plc ("SABMiller"). Additionally, we are party to a joint venture, Modelo Molson Imports, L.P. ("MMI"), with Grupo Modelo S.A.B. de C.V. ("Modelo") that imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio, including the Corona, Coronita, Negra Modelo, and Pacifico brands, across all Canadian provinces and territories. MMI is accounted for under the equity method. In November 2013, Anheuser-Busch InBev ("ABI") and MCBC entered into an 3Table of Contentsagreement providing for the accelerated termination of the MMI joint venture in February 2014. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 5, "Investments" of the Notes for additional information. In Canada, we also have contract brewing agreements to produce for the U.S. market Asahi Super Dry and Asahi Select for Asahi Breweries, Ltd. and Labatt Blue and Labatt Blue Light for North American Breweries, Inc.MillerCoors sells a wide variety of brands in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. In the formation of the MillerCoors joint venture, MCBC and SABMiller each assigned the U.S. and Puerto Rican ownership rights to its respective legacy brands to MillerCoors, but retained all ownership of these brands outside the United States and Puerto Rico. MillerCoors' flagship premium light brands are Coors Light and Miller Lite. Brands in the domestic premium segment are Coors Banquet and Miller Genuine Draft. Brands in the economy segment include Miller High Life, Keystone, Icehouse, Mickey's, Milwaukee's Best, Hamm's, and Olde English 800 brands. MillerCoors also brews or distributes under license the Molson and Foster's brands and George Killian's Irish Red.  Craft and import brands, some of which are marketed and sold through Tenth and Blake, include the Blue Moon brands, Henry Weinhard's brands, Leinenkugel's brands, Redd's brands, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Pilsner Urquell, Batch 19, Grolsch, Worthington's, St. Stefanus, Third Shift, and cider brands from the Crispin Cider Company. Brands in the non-alcoholic segment include Coors Non-Alcoholic and Sharp's.Brands sold in Europe include Carling, Ozujsko, Jelen, Staropramen, Coors Light, Kamenitza, Niksicko, Bergenbier, Branik, Worthington's, Sharp's Doom Bar, Borsodi, Ostravar, Noroc, Astika, Apatinsko and Blue Moon, as well as a number of smaller regional ale brands in the U.K., Ireland and Central Europe. The European business has licensing agreements with various other brewers through which it also brews or distributes the Stella Artois, Hoegaarden, Leffe, Beck's, Lowenbrau, Spaten, Löwenweisse and Belle-Vue Kriek brands in certain Central European countries. In the U.K., we also sell the Grolsch brands through a joint venture with Royal Grolsch N.V. and the Cobra brands through the Cobra Beer Partnership Ltd. joint venture, and are the exclusive distributor for several brands which are sold under license, including Corona, which is sold under our licensing arrangement with Modelo through 2014, and Singha. Additionally, in order to be able to provide a full line of beer and other beverages to our U.K. on-premise customers, we sell "factored" brands, which are third-party beverage brands for which we provide distribution to retail, typically on a non-exclusive basis.Brands sold in our international markets as part of our MCI segment, including brands sold under export and license agreements, include Staropramen, Coors Light, Carling, Cobra, Blue Moon and Corona. We also market and sell brands unique to these international markets which include Zima, Iceberg 9000, King Cobra, Coors, Coors Gold, and Coors Extra.Canada SegmentWe are Canada's second-largest brewer by volume and North America's oldest beer company. Our approximate market share of the Canada beer market in 2013 was 38%. We brew, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of beer brands nationally. Our portfolio has leading brands in all major product and price segments. Our focus and investment is on key owned brands, including Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Carling, Molson Dry, Molson Export, Rickard's, Pilsner, Creemore Springs, Coors Banquet and Granville Island and strategic distribution partnerships, including those with Heineken and SABMiller. In 2013, Coors Light had an approximate 13% market share and was the top selling beer brand in Canada, and Molson Canadian had an approximate 8% market share and was the third largest selling beer in Canada.The Canada segment also includes our partnership arrangements related to the distribution of beer in Ontario, Brewers' Retail Inc. ("BRI"), and in the Western provinces, Brewers' Distributor Ltd. ("BDL"). BRI and BDL are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.Sales and DistributionIn Canada, provincial governments regulate the beer industry, particularly with regard to the pricing, mark-up, container management, sale, distribution, and advertising of beer. Distribution and the retail sale of alcohol products involve a wide range and varied degree of Canadian government control through their respective provincial liquor boards.Province of OntarioIn Ontario, beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, at government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, at approved agents of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, or at any bar, restaurant, or tavern licensed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to sell alcohol for on-premise consumption. We, together with certain other brewers, participate in the ownership of BRI in proportion to provincial market share relative to other brewers in the ownership group. Brewers may deliver directly to BRI's outlets or may choose to use BRI's distribution centers to access retail stores in Ontario, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario system and licensed establishments.4Table of ContentsProvince of QuébecIn Québec, beer is distributed to retail outlets directly by each brewer or through independent agents. We are the agent for the licensed brands we distribute. The brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise consumption. Québec retail sales for off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores as well as government operated outlets. During November 2012, an increase in beer excise taxes of over 20% was announced and implemented in Québec.Province of British ColumbiaIn British Columbia, the government's Liquor Distribution Branch controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all alcohol products in the province. BDL, which we co-own with a competitor, manages the distribution of our products throughout British Columbia. Consumers can purchase beer at any Liquor Distribution Branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. Establishments licensed primarily for on-premise alcohol sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption.Province of AlbertaIn Alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a government sponsored system in the case of U.S. sourced products. All sales of liquor in Alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and restaurants. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Alberta.Other ProvincesOur products are distributed in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan through local liquor boards. Manitoba and Saskatchewan also have licensed private retailers. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. In the Maritime Provinces (other than Newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell our products. In Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut, government liquor commissioners manage the distribution and sale of our products.Manufacturing, Production and PackagingBrewing Raw MaterialsWe select global suppliers in order to procure the highest quality materials and services at the lowest prices available. We also use hedging instruments to mitigate the risk of volatility in certain commodities and foreign exchange markets.We source barley malt from one primary provider. Hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the U.S., Europe, and New Zealand. Other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced from two main suppliers, both in North America. We do not foresee any significant risk of disruption in the supply of these agricultural products in the immediate future. Water used in the brewing process is from local sources in the communities where our breweries operate. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.Brewing and Packaging FacilitiesWe operate seven breweries, strategically located throughout Canada. These locations brew and package all owned and certain licensed brands sold in, and exported from, Canada. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.Packaging MaterialsWe single source glass bottles and have a committed supply through December 2014. We source lids and cans from two primary providers with contracts ending December 2014 and February 2015, respectively. We currently utilize a hedging program for aluminum requirements and related transportation and storage costs in Canada. We do not currently expect any future difficulties in accessing glass bottles or aluminum cans. The distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network for returnable bottles and aluminum cans. The standard container for beer brewed in Canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle, which in 2013 represented a significant majority of the approximately 43% of volume sales (excluding imports) in Canada in bottles. In 2013, aluminum cans accounted for approximately 46% of our volume sales (excluding imports) in Canada. In 2013, we sold approximately 11% of our beer volume (excluding imports) in stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased every year, and we have no long-term supply commitment. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. We do not currently foresee future difficulties in accessing these packaging products in the near term.5Table of ContentsContract ManufacturingWe have an agreement with North American Breweries, Inc. to brew, package and ship Labatt trademark brands to the U.S. market through the end of 2015. We also have an agreement with Asahi Breweries, Ltd. to brew and package Asahi Super Dry and Asahi Select to the U.S. market through early 2017.Seasonality of BusinessTotal industry volume in Canada is sensitive to factors such as weather, changes in demographics, consumer preferences and drinking occasions. Weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. Accordingly, consumption of beer in Canada is seasonal, with approximately 40% of industry sales volume typically occurring during the warmer months from May through August.Known Trends and Competitive Conditions2013 Canada Beer Industry OverviewThe Canadian brewing industry is a mature market. It is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from regional brewers, microbrewers and certain foreign brewers, as well as our main domestic competitor. These competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling activities.There are three major beer price segments: above premium, which includes most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light sub-segment; and value (below premium).Since 2001, the premium beer segment in Canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value segments. For each of the five years ended December 31, 2008, Canada beer industry shipments annual average growth rate approximated 1%. Since that time, the beer industry has been soft, with declines in four of the last five years. Aging population and a stalled economy have been main contributors to the declining state of the beer industry.The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcoholic beverages as a component of the overall Canadian alcohol market over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We believe that 2013 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the current consumer trends. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008Beer51.3% 51.9% 52.8% 53.3% 53.4%Other alcohol beverages48.7% 48.1% 47.2% 46.7% 46.6%Our Competitive PositionOur brands compete with competitor beer brands and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer segments.The Canada brewing industry is composed principally of two major brewers, MCBC, which had approximately 39% of the market share in 2013, and ABI, which had approximately 40% of the market share in 2013. In 2013, the Ontario and Québec markets accounted for approximately 60% of the total beer market in Canada.RegulationIn Canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling, and pricing of beer (including the establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production and sale of beer. During November 2012, an increase in beer excise taxes of over 20% was announced and implemented in Québec. In addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes, consumption taxes, excise taxes, and in certain instances, custom duties on imported beer. In 2013, our Canada excise taxes totaled $631.3 million or approximately $76 per hectoliter sold. Further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign governments, especially with the United States, affect the Canadian beer industry.6Table of ContentsUnited States SegmentMillerCoors is the nation's second largest brewer by volume, selling approximately 28% of the total 2013 U.S. brewing industry shipments (excluding exports and U.S. shipments of imports). MillerCoors was formed on July 1, 2008 as a joint venture between MCBC and SABMiller. Each party contributed its U.S. and Puerto Rico businesses and related operating assets and certain liabilities. The percentage interests in the profits of MillerCoors are 58% for SABMiller and 42% for MCBC. Voting interests are shared 50% - 50%, and MCBC and SABMiller have equal board representation within MillerCoors. Each party to the MillerCoors joint venture agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in the joint venture for a period of five years from July 1, 2008. With the expiration of the restriction in 2013, both parties to the joint venture are now able to transfer their economic and voting interest, however, certain rights of first refusal will apply to any assignment of such interests. Our interest in MillerCoors is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.Prior to the formation of MillerCoors, MCBC produced, marketed, and sold the MCBC portfolio of brands in the U.S. and its territories, and its U.S. operating segment included the results of the Rocky Mountain Metal Container ("RMMC") and Rocky Mountain Bottle Container ("RMBC") joint ventures. Effective July 1, 2008, MCBC's equity investment in MillerCoors represents our U.S. operating segment.Sales and DistributionIn the United States, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. A national network of approximately 450 independent distributors purchases MillerCoors' products and distributes them to retail accounts. In 2013, approximately 18% of MillerCoors' beer volume was sold on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 82% was sold off-premise in convenience stores, grocery stores, liquor stores and other retail outlets. MillerCoors wholly owns one distributorship, which handled less than 1% of its total volume in 2013.Manufacturing, Production and PackagingBrewing Raw MaterialsMillerCoors uses the highest quality ingredients to brew its products. MillerCoors malts a portion of its production requirements, using barley purchased under yearly contracts from independent farmers located in the western United States. Other barley, malt, and cereal grains are purchased from suppliers primarily in the U.S. Hops are purchased from suppliers in the U.S., New Zealand and certain European countries. MillerCoors leases water rights, including leasing from MCBC for water usage in Colorado, to provide for and to sustain brewing operations in case of a prolonged drought in the regions for which it has operations. MillerCoors does not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.Brewing and Packaging FacilitiesThere are twelve brewery and packaging facilities which produce MillerCoors products. MillerCoors imports Molson brands and Worthington's from MCBC and Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Pilsner Urquell, Grolsch, and other import brands from SABMiller.Packaging MaterialsOver half of U.S. products sold were packaged in aluminum cans in 2013. A portion of aluminum cans were purchased from RMMC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Ball Corporation ("Ball"), whose production facilities are located near MillerCoors' brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition to the supply agreement with RMMC, MillerCoors has a supply agreement with Ball to purchase cans and ends in excess of what is supplied through RMMC. In 2011, MillerCoors signed a 10-year contract extension with Ball to extend the RMMC joint venture agreement along with the can and end purchase agreements. The contracts were renegotiated effective January 1, 2012 and both agreements expire December 31, 2021. Approximately one-third of U.S. products sold in 2013 were packaged in glass bottles, of which a portion was provided by RMBC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc. ("Owens"). The joint venture with Owens, as well as a supply agreement with Owens for the glass bottles required in excess of RMBC's production, expires in 2015. The approximate remaining 10% of U.S. production volume sold in 2013 was packaged in half, quarter, and one-sixth barrel stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased each year, and there is no long-term supply agreement. Crowns, labels, corrugate and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. MillerCoors does not foresee difficulties in accessing packaging products in the near future.Contract ManufacturingMillerCoors has an agreement to brew, package and ship products for Pabst Brewing Company through June 2020. Additionally, MillerCoors produces beer under contract for our Canada and MCI segments and SABMiller.7Table of ContentsSeasonality of the BusinessMillerCoors U.S. sales volumes are normally lowest in the winter months (first and fourth quarters) and highest in the summer months (second and third quarters).Known Trends and Competitive Conditions2013 U.S. Beer Industry OverviewThe beer industry in the United States is highly competitive, and the two largest brewers, ABI and MillerCoors together represented approximately 80% of the market in 2013. The formation of MillerCoors in 2008 created a stronger U.S. presence for MCBC with the scale, operational efficiency and distribution platform to compete more effectively in the U.S. market place. Growing or even maintaining market share has required significant investments in marketing. From 1998 to 2008, the U.S. beer industry shipments annual growth rate approximated 1%, compared with declines ranging from 1% to 2% in each of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011. With ideal weather conditions, industry volumes improved slightly in 2012, growing about 1%. However, in 2013 the industry saw a decline of approximately 1% to 2%. The 2009 to 2011 and 2013 declines in the U.S. beer industry have been partially attributed to relatively poor economic conditions. High rates of unemployment, declining labor participation rates and lower consumer confidence have negatively affected the legal age key beer drinkers' purchasing behaviors. In addition, per capita beer consumption has declined as consumer preference shifts to higher alcohol, full calorie beers.The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcoholic beverages as a component of the overall U.S. alcohol market over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We believe that 2013 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the current consumer trends. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008Beer 52.8% 53.2% 54.4% 55.1% 56.0%Other alcohol beverages47.2% 46.8% 45.6% 44.9% 44.0%Our Competitive PositionThe MillerCoors portfolio of beers competes with numerous above-premium, premium, and economy brands. These competing brands are produced by international, national, regional and local brewers. MillerCoors competes most directly with ABI, but also competes with imported and craft beer brands. MillerCoors is the nation's second largest brewer by volume, selling approximately 28% of the total 2013 U.S. brewing industry shipments (excluding exports and U.S. shipments of imports). This compares to ABI's estimated market share of 47%.MillerCoors' products also compete with other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus their competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Driven by increased spirits advertising along with increased wine and spirits sales execution, sales of wine and spirits have grown faster than sales of beer in recent years, resulting in a reduction in the beer segment's lead in the overall alcohol beverage market.RegulationThe U.S. beer business is regulated by federal, state, and local governments. These regulations govern many parts of MillerCoors' operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor relationships, sales, and environmental issues. To operate their facilities, MillerCoors must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department; Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau; the U.S. Department of Agriculture; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol regulatory agencies; and state and federal environmental agencies.Governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In 2013, total excise taxes on malt beverages were $1,169.0 million, or approximately $16 per hectoliter sold. State excise taxes are levied in specific states at varying rates. Europe SegmentAs a result of our Acquisition of StarBev and combination of our historical U.K. and Central Europe segments, we are the second largest brewer by volume within the European countries in which we operate, with an approximate 21% market share (excluding factored products) in 2013. The majority of our European segment sales are in the U.K., Czech Republic, Serbia, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary. Our portfolio includes beers that have the largest share in their respective countries, 8Table of Contentssuch as Carling in the U.K., Jelen in Serbia, Kamenitza in Bulgaria and Ozujsko in Croatia. We have beers that rank in the top three in market share in countries throughout the region, including Staropramen and Borsodi. We also brew and distribute Stella Artois, Beck's, Lowenbrau and Spaten under license agreements with ABI companies. Additionally, our Europe segment includes our consolidated joint venture arrangements for the production and distribution of Grolsch and Cobra brands in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland and factored brand sales (beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us). Tradeteam Ltd. ("Tradeteam"), our previous joint venture arrangement with DHL (formerly Exel Logistics), provided for the distribution of products throughout the U.K. and was accounted for under the equity method of accounting. In December 2013, we terminated our existing distribution agreements with Tradeteam and concurrently entered into new agreements for the continued distribution of our products in the U.K. through 2023. The new agreements were entered into at more favorable rates, consistent with current market rates, and are expected to generate future cost savings. Subsequent to the execution of the new distribution agreements, we executed a sale and purchase agreement for the termination of the joint venture and sale of our 49.9% interest in Tradeteam to DHL. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 5, "Investments" of the Notes for additional information. Additionally, we distribute the Modelo brands, including Corona, pursuant to a distribution agreement with Modelo. In conjunction with negotiations in November 2013 with ABI around our Modelo distribution agreements, ABI has agreed that we will continue to represent the Modelo brands in the U.K. through the end of 2014. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 5, "Investments" of the Notes for additional information. Sales and DistributionIn Europe, beer is generally distributed through either a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers, or a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. Most of our beer in the U.K. is sold directly to retailers. It is also common in the U.K. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). Approximately 17% of our Europe segment net sales in 2013 represented factored brands. Factored brand sales are included in our net sales and cost of goods sold, but are not included in our reported volumes.Generally, over the years, volumes in Europe have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market.Off-Premise ChannelIn Europe, the off-premise channel includes sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 60% of our Europe sales volume in 2013.  The off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a small number of super-store chains, placing increasing downward pressure on beer pricing.On-Premise ChannelThe on-premise channel includes sales to pubs and restaurants. The on-premise channel accounted for approximately 40% of our Europe sales volume in 2013. The installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we own refrigeration units and other equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers that are used in on-premise outlets. This includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and counter mounts.Similar to other brewers, we utilize loans in securing supply relationships with customers in the on-premise market in the U.K. These loans are normally granted at below-market rates of interest, with the outlet purchasing beer at lower-than-average discount levels to compensate. We reclassify a portion of sales revenue to interest income to reflect the economic substance of these loans. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 1, "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes for additional information.DistributionDistribution activities for both the on-premise and off-premise channels are conducted primarily by third-party logistics providers. We utilize Tradeteam for these activities in the U.K. and several hundred third-party logistics providers across our Central European operations. We also conduct a small amount of secondary distribution in Czech Republic utilizing our own fleet of vehicles. 9Table of ContentsManufacturing, Production and PackagingBrewing Raw MaterialsWe use the highest quality water, barley, malt and hops to brew our products. During 2013, our malt requirements were sourced from both owned production and third party suppliers. We produced 37% of our total required malt from our malt-house in the U.K., using barley sourced through two suppliers Frontier and Gleadell, with commitments until 2016 and 2014, respectively. We have also entered into long term contracts with two suppliers for an additional 50% of our required malt. These contracts are with Boortmalt and Malteries Soufflet and expire at the end of 2015 and 2020, respectively. The remaining 13% of our needs are purchased on a spot basis from various maltsters in the region. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing required barley and malt in the near term. Hops are purchased under various contracts with suppliers in Germany, the U.S. and the U.K., which cover our needs through 2015. Adjuncts are purchased under various contracts with local producers, which are typically crop year contracts commencing in October of each year. Water used in the brewing process is sourced from various wells and through water rights and supply contracts. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing required water or agricultural products in the near term.Brewing and Packaging FacilitiesWe operate thirteen breweries in Europe, which brew and package all owned brands sold in Europe. See Item 2, "Properties" for additional information. Packaging MaterialsApproximately 31% of our Europe volumes sold in 2013 were packaged in bottles, with a significant majority in returnable bottles. We have contracts with five suppliers for bottles, of which the majority of the contracts expired at the end of 2013. We are currently negotiating long-term supply agreements for our bottle requirements and do not currently anticipate difficulty in resourcing our requirements in the near future. We used kegs and casks for approximately 28% of volume sold in Europe in 2013. A limited number of steel kegs are purchased each year, and we are currently negotiating the agreement for our steel keg requirements for 2014. Cans represented 23% of our Europe volumes sold in 2013. We have long term contracts with four providers for our required supply of cans. Approximately 18% of our Europe volume sold in 2013 consisted of products packaged in recyclable plastic containers for which we have one year agreements with various manufacturers in the region. Crowns, labels and corrugate are purchased from sources unique to each category. We do not currently foresee future difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the near term.Contract ManufacturingWe have a contract brewing and kegging agreement with Heineken whereby we produce and package the Foster's and Kronenbourg brands in the U.K. In December 2013, we entered into an agreement with Heineken to early terminate this arrangement. As a result of the termination, Heineken has agreed to pay us an aggregate early termination payment of GBP 13.0 million during and through the end of the transition period, concluding on April 30, 2015. We also have an agreement with Heineken whereby they sell, market and distribute Coors Light in the Republic of Ireland through December 2014. We expect that this will continue into 2015 and beyond, with negotiations currently on-going for a new contract. In addition, we have a five year agreement to contract brew ales for Carlsberg Group ("Carlsberg") which was entered into in 2011. Seasonality of BusinessIn Europe, the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major televised sporting events. Weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. Accordingly, the peak selling seasons typically occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holiday season. Known Trends and Competitive Conditions2013 Europe Beer Industry OverviewWe estimate that the Europe beer market declined by more than 3% in 2013, primarily driven by declines in the overall alcohol market, with volumes shifting from the higher margin on-premise channel to the lower margin off-premise channel. Since 2010, the off-premise market share has increased from 55% to 59% of total volume, and the on-premise market share has declined from 45% to 41%. Europe beer industry shipments have declined by approximately 1% in each of 2012 and 2011 after declines of approximately 7% in 2009 and increased by approximately 4% in 2010. These market fluctuations are consistent with the fluctuations within the overall alcohol market in each of the respective years.10Table of ContentsThe following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcoholic beverages as a component of the overall European alcohol market, within the countries in which we have production facilities, over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We believe that 2013 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the current consumer trends. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008Beer 35.7% 35.3% 35.1% 35.6% 37.4%Other alcohol beverages64.3% 64.7% 64.9% 64.4% 62.6%Our Competitive PositionOur beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders. With the exception of stout, where we do not have our own brand, we believe our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories. In European countries where we operate, our principal competitors are Heineken, SABMiller, Carlsberg and ABI, with estimated regional market shares in 2013 of approximately 25%, 14%, 10%, and 7%, respectively, compared to our share of approximately 21%.RegulationEach country that is part of our Europe segment is either a member of the European Union ("EU") or a current candidate to join, with the exception of Bosnia, which is a potential current candidate, and, as such, there are similarities in the regulations that apply to many parts of our Europe segment's operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment and data protection regulations. To operate breweries and conduct our business in Europe, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from various governmental agencies. Each country's government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages. With the exception of Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia, all countries' laws on excise taxes are consistent with the EU Directives. With the exception of Serbia, where a flat excise per hectoliter is used, all European countries use similar measurements based on either alcohol by volume or Plato degrees. Additionally, in 2010, the U.K. government announced that alcohol excise tax rates will increase at a rate of 2% above U.K. inflation annually through 2015, however, in March 2013, the U.K. government announced a reduction in beer excise tax of 2% for 2013 and cancelled the beer escalator for 2014 and replaced it with an increase of annual inflation thereafter. The 2% escalator above annual inflation is to remain in place for wine, cider and spirits. In 2013, the excise taxes for our Europe segment totaled $1,137.1 million, or approximately $54 per hectoliter. Molson Coors International SegmentThe objective of MCI is to grow and expand our business and brand portfolio in markets, including emerging markets, outside the U.S., Canada, U.K. and Central Europe. The focus of MCI includes Asia, continental Europe (excluding Central Europe, as it is a part of the Europe segment), Mexico, Latin America, the Caribbean (excluding Puerto Rico, as it is a part of the U.S. segment) and Australia.Standalone BusinessOur standalone operations are in the Asia region and are based in India, Japan and China. Our consolidated joint venture in India gives us a 51% share and operational control of Molson Coors Cobra India ("MC Cobra India") which operates a brewery in the state of Bihar. MC Cobra India produces, markets and sells a beer portfolio consisting of King Cobra, Cobra and Iceberg 9000 in select Indian states. In Japan, our focus is on the marketing and selling of the Zima, Coors Light, Blue Moon and Modelo brands. These brands are imported into Japan and are sold through independent wholesalers to both the on-premise and off-premise channels.Our China business is focused on growing the Coors Light, Coors Extra, and Carling brands, which are produced under a contract brewing agreement in China. We market and sell these brands through independent wholesalers primarily in the on-premise channel. During the third quarter of 2012, we deconsolidated our 51% ownership in our joint venture in China, Molson Coors Si'hai ("MC Si'hai"), from our financial statements due to a loss of our ability to control the joint venture, and in December 2013, we finalized the sale of our interest in the investment to our former joint venture partner. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 5, "Investments" of the Notes for additional information.11Table of ContentsExport BusinessOur export business focuses on expanding the reach of our international brands which are exported from our breweries in the U.S., U.K. and Czech Republic. The brands sold include Staropramen, Coors Light, Carling, Cobra and Blue Moon. In Latin America and the Caribbean, our products, primarily Coors Light, are sold through agreements with independent distributors. We also sell our brands, primarily Staropramen, in several countries in Western Europe. Additionally, in 2013, we introduced Coors and Blue Moon into Australia.  Beginning in fiscal year 2013, with the combination of our U.K. and Central Europe businesses, our Carling travel and export business is reported in our Europe segment. For periods prior to fiscal year 2013, this business was included within MCI. License BusinessOur license business builds long term partnerships with leading global brewers to market and grow our international brands in markets which typically have a greater barrier to entry. This business includes licensing arrangements with ABI to brew and distribute Staropramen in Russia and Ukraine and an exclusive licensing agreement with Heineken to brew and distribute Coors Light in Mexico. We also have various licensing agreements for the manufacturing and distribution of Carling primarily in Ukraine, Spain and Russia. CorporateCorporate includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments. The majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, tax, internal audit, insurance and risk management. Additionally, the results of our water resources and energy operations in Colorado are included in Corporate. Corporate also includes certain royalty income and administrative costs related to the management of intellectual property.Other InformationGlobal Intellectual PropertyWe own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patent and design registrations with expiration dates through 2049 relating to beer dispensing systems, packaging and certain other innovations. We are not reliant on patent royalties for our financial success. Therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business.Corporate ResponsibilityCorporate responsibility is integral to our business strategy. We are committed to sustainable growth while improving the impact we have on our communities, people and the environment. In 2013 and 2012, we were named Global Beverage Sector Leader on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. We were listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index in 2013 and 2011. Additionally, we were selected for inclusion in the RobecomSAM's Sustainability Yearbook 2014 and have received the Industry Leader and Gold Class distinction for our sustainability performance.Environmental MattersOur operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. Such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation, and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and estimable. However, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such laws. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 19, "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes under the caption "Environmental" for additional information regarding environmental matters.Employees As of the end of 2013, we have approximately 9,250 full-time employees within MCBC globally, including 2,600 within our Canada segment, 6,000 employees within our Europe segment throughout Czech Republic, Serbia, Croatia, Romania, 12Table of ContentsBulgaria, Hungary, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Slovakia, the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, 450 employees within our MCI segment in 13 countries, and 200 employees in our Corporate headquarters in Colorado. Additionally, MillerCoors has approximately 8,400 employees.  Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export SalesSee Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4, "Segment Reporting" of the Notes for discussion of sales, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.Available InformationWe file with or furnish to the SEC reports, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These reports are available free of charge on our corporate website (www.molsoncoors.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of any materials we file with the SEC can be obtained at www.sec.gov or at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the public reference room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. The information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report.Executive OfficersThe following tables set forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 14, 2014:Name Age PositionPeter Swinburn 61 President, Chief Executive Officer, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCKrishnan Anand 56 President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors InternationalPeter H. Coors 67 Chairman of the Board of the Company, Executive Director of Coors Brewing Company, and Chairman of the Board of MillerCoors LLCStewart Glendinning 48 President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors CanadaGavin Hattersley 51 Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCMark Hunter 51 President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors EuropeCelso White 52 Chief Supply Chain Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCSamuel D. Walker 55 Chief People and Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORSThe reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. The risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. We may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects.Risks Specific to Our CompanyCompetition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    In most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. In all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and predatory marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. Further, distributor consolidation could have a long-term material adverse effect on our business by diminishing our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reducing our ability to manage our pricing effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. These factors could result in lower margins or loss of market share, due to increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive 13Table of Contentswithin our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. Our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.    Our Molson Canadian and Coors Light brands in Canada, Miller Lite and Coors Light brands in the U.S., and Carling, Jelen, Staropramen, and Ozujsko brands in Europe represented more than half of each respective segment's sales in 2013. Additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. Additionally, in our major markets there has been a recent shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by small, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol market from beer to wine and spirits. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have significant share, therefore small movements in consumer preference can disproportionately impact our results. As a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products could result in a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Continued weak, or further weakening of, economic conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.    Beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our brand portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. Difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decrease in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products.If the Pentland Trust and the Coors Trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders.    Pentland Securities (1981) Inc. (the "Pentland Trust") (a company controlled by the Molson family and related parties) and the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust (the "Coors Trust"), which together control more than ninety percent of our Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our Class A common stock and the Class A exchangeable shares that they own. In the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. There is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. Therefore, if either the Pentland Trust or the Coors Trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. Similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. Thus it is possible that the Company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. The interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the Company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders.    Our Class B common stock has fewer voting rights than our Class A common stock and holders of our Class A common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse impact on Class B stockholders. Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact our business, liquidity and our financial results.    Our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. While we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. These funding requirements may also require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations.We rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. The inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products.    We purchase certain types of packaging 14Table of Contentsmaterials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. Consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. The inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    We manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint ventures, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other arrangements. The loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, subsequent to ABI's acquisition of Grupo Modelo, we entered into an agreement to accelerate the termination of our MMI joint venture that imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories, which, when consummated, will have an adverse impact on our Canadian volumes. Additionally, Miller Brewing Company (“Miller”) has notified us of its intent to terminate the license agreement between Miller and us in Canada, which, if the termination is upheld or the parties fail to resolve the dispute through negotiation, could have an adverse impact on our Canadian volumes. Further, Tradeteam exclusively handles all of the physical distribution for our products in the U.K., except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. If Tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our U.K. operations that could have an adverse financial impact to our business and financial results.Changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    Our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. Examples of this are the recent changes in the Canadian tax legislation and U.K. statutory tax rate increases. Failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. Finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized on a global basis, seeking to impose regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. To the extent such views gain traction in regulations where we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the Canadian dollar and the European operating currencies such as, but not limited to, British Pound, Euro, Czech Koruna, Croatian Kuna, Serbian Dinar, New Romanian Leu, Bulgarian Lev and Hungarian Forint.    We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in Canada and throughout Europe. Because our financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into USD. Increases and decreases in the value of the USD will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. Additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. Further, certain actions by the government of any of the countries in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. To the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted.Our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results.    We use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) containers,  as well as, cardboard and other paper products. We also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. The supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical 15Table of Contentsevents (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. To the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our financial results could be materially adversely impacted.The success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property.    It is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. Concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. Deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. In addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the Molson or Coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. Further, the success of our Company is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Due to a high concentration of unionized workers in Canada, the United Kingdom, and at MillerCoors in the U.S., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues.    Approximately 60%, 36% and 26% of our Canadian, MillerCoors and U.K. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. In addition, a number of our Central European employees are represented by trade councils. Stringent labor laws in the U.K. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. A labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business and financial results.    In our U.S. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products sold through MillerCoors (including our non-U.S. products). That system is increasingly subject to the legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. To the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse impact on MillerCoors and, consequently, MCBC. Further, in Canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. Additionally, in certain provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as BRI in Ontario and BDL in the Western provinces, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. If provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.    Our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. An example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. Any negative change in these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business.    We rely exclusively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. We also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources and other information technology functions to third-party service providers. If one of these service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. Additionally, our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of outside parties attempting to breach our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business or employee information and disruption of our operations.We may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets.    In connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. These assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. Additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. Potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. Our most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of June 30, 2013, the first day of our third quarter, indicated that the fair value of our Europe and Canada reporting units were close to failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. The fair value of the Europe and Canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 11% and 16% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. In 16Table of Contentsaddition, we determined that the fair value of our Jelen and Ostravar indefinite-lived brand intangible assets within our Europe segment were below their respective carrying values as of June 30, 2013. As a result, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $150.9 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the third quarter of 2013. The aggregate fair value of the Jelen, Ozujsko and Branik indefinite-lived brands in Europe, at the valuation date, was estimated at approximately 1% in excess of the aggregate carrying value. Further, the fair value of the Molson core brands was estimated at approximately 10% in excess of its carrying value. The Europe and Canada reporting units, and the Jelen, Ozujsko and Branik brands in Europe and Molson core brands in Canada, are therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including significant delays in projected macroeconomic recovery or prolonged adverse economic conditions), terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. We have also identified risks related to the possible termination of our license agreement with Miller in Canada, which resulted in an impairment of our related definite-lived intangible asset during the fourth quarter 2013. Additionally, the results of our annual testing determined that the indefinite-life classification could no longer be supported for the Ostravar brand. The Ostravar brand has therefore been reclassified as a definite-lived intangible asset and the remaining fair value of the asset will be amortized over its estimated remaining life. Any future impairment of the Jelen, Ozujsko, Branik, Molson or other brands, or reclassification of additional brands from indefinite-lived to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.Climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results.    There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term, material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. The competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. Even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations.Failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.    We have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. In order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. Potential issues associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint ventures competitive transaction terms; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted.Risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results.    We have entered into several joint ventures, including our MillerCoors joint venture in the United States and Puerto Rico with SABMiller. We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. In addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. Disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. For example, in December 2013 we sold our interest in our MC Si'hai joint venture in China, following the failure of our partner to meet its obligations in 2012. Additionally, we have entered into an agreement to 17Table of Contentsaccelerate the termination of our MMI joint venture that imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories, which, when consummated, will have an adverse impact on our Canadian volumes and financial results.We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business.    The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Our operations outside of North America and the U.K. expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results.    We expect our operations outside of North America and the U.K. to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally. In certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences.In addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and U.S. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and a materially negative impact on our brands and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies.Loss of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results.    Our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our suppliers. Additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. In addition, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of MCBC brands if production capacity is limited.Failure to comply with our debt covenants or a deterioration in our credit rating could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness.   Under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. These include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. Failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. A deterioration in our credit rating could also affect our ability to obtain future financing or refinance our current debt, as well as increase our borrowing rates, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial results.Risks Specific to the Canada SegmentWe may experience adverse impacts to our Canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall Canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes.    If the Canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. Additionally, continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in Ontario, Québec, Alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. Further, changes in the Canadian tax legislation, such as the recent increase in beer excise taxes in Quebec, could decrease our net sales. Moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the Canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. Failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability.18Table of ContentsIn the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses.    Along with ABI and other brewers in Canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents more than 43% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in Canada. Changes to the Industry Standard Bottle Agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. If we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets.Risks Specific to the United States Segment and MillerCoorsWe do not fully control the operations and administration of MillerCoors, which represents our interests in the U.S. beer business.    We jointly control MillerCoors with SABMiller and hold a 42% economic interest in the joint venture. While we direct the MillerCoors business through our equal representation on its board of directors (along with SABMiller) and otherwise impact its business activities through our ongoing communication and oversight, MillerCoors’ management is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business. As a result, we do not have full control over MillerCoors’ activities. Our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of MillerCoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with SABMiller and factors beyond our control that may affect SABMiller. Additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to MillerCoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. Each party to the MillerCoors joint venture agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in the joint venture for a period of five years from July 1, 2008. With the expiration of the restriction in 2013, both parties to the joint venture are now able to transfer their economic and voting interest. Certain rights of first refusal will apply to any assignment of such interests. Any transfer of ownership interest could have a significant impact on our results of operations and financial position, as well as our ongoing internal and external business relationships.MillerCoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the United States to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products.    MillerCoors sells all of its products and our non-U.S. products in the United States to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. Consequently, if MillerCoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Risks Specific to the Europe SegmentWe may not recognize the benefits of the Acquisition.    We may not realize the expected benefits of the Acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The long-term success of the Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating Central Europe's business with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of recognizing the potential benefits of the Acquisition include, among others:•failure to implement our business plan for the combined business;•unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, procurement, communications and other systems;•possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures betweenCentral Europe's structure and our structure;•failure to retain key customers and suppliers;•unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;•operating risks inherent in Central Europe's business and our business;•unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of Molson Coors and Central Europe had achieved or might achieve separately. In addition, we may not accomplish the integration of Central Europe's business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. Moreover, the markets in which Central Europe operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any further economic downturn affecting Europe could negatively impact Central Europe's business. These markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which Molson Coors has historically operated. If we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the Central Europe business or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the Acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In such case, our business and financial results may be materially adversely impacted.19Table of ContentsEconomic trends and intense competition in European markets could unfavorably impact our profitability.    Our European businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions generally. As a result of our annual impairment testing, we determined that the fair value of our Jelen and Ostravar indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values as of June 30, 2013. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge in the third quarter of 2013. The decline in fair value of these brands was due, in part, to the continued weakening of the current macro-economic environment in certain European markets. Our impairment testing also indicated risk of additional future impairments of Jelen and other indefinite-lived intangible brands sold in these markets. Additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our European markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. In particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in Europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in Europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. Margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely impact our profitability.In the event that a significant pub chain was to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted.    We extend credit to pub chains in the U.K., and in some cases the amounts are significant. The continuing challenging economic environment in the U.K. has caused business at on-premise outlets to decrease since late 2008, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty, if economic conditions do not improve. In the event that one or more significant pub chains were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted. Risks Specific to the Molson Coors International SegmentAn inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects.    Our ability to grow our MCI segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets and on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets. Due to product price, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do and cultural differences, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. If we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected.Risks Specific to Our Discontinued OperationsIndemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the Cervejarias Kaiser Brasil S.A. ("Kaiser") business in Brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges.    In 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in Kaiser to FEMSA Cerveza S.A. de C.V. ("FEMSA"). The terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify FEMSA for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. The ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. These indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future.ITEM 1B