 Risk Factors.Canada SegmentWe are Canada's second-largest brewer by volume and North America's oldest beer company. Our market share of the Canada beer market in 2015 was approximately 34%. We brew, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of beer brands nationally. Our portfolio has leading brands in all major product and price segments. Our focus and investment is on Canada core brands, primarily Coors Light and Molson Canadian, as well as other key owned brands, including Coors Banquet, Creemore Springs, Granville Island, Molson Dry, Molson Export, Pilsner and Rickard's and strategic distribution partnerships, including those with Heineken. In 2015, Coors Light had an approximate 12% market share and was the second largest selling beer brand in Canada, and Molson Canadian had an approximate 6% market share and was the third largest selling beer in Canada.The Canada segment also includes our partnership arrangements related to the distribution of beer in Ontario, Brewers' Retail Inc. ("BRI"), and in the Western provinces, Brewers' Distributor Ltd. ("BDL"). BRI and BDL are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The majority of ownership in BRI resides with MCC, Labatt Breweries of Canada LP (a subsidiary of ABI) and Sleeman Breweries Ltd. (a subsidiary of Sapporo International). BDL is jointly owned by MCC and Labatt Breweries of Canada LP.Sales and DistributionIn Canada, provincial governments regulate the beer industry, particularly with regard to the pricing, mark-up, container management, sale, distribution and advertising of beer. Distribution and the retail sale of alcohol products involve a wide range and varied degree of Canadian government control through their respective provincial liquor boards. In 2015, approximately 19% of our Canada segment beer volume was sold on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 81% was sold off-premise in convenience stores, grocery stores, liquor stores and other retail outlets. Province of OntarioIn Ontario, beer is primarily purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, at government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, at approved agents of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, or at any bar, restaurant, or tavern licensed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to sell alcohol for on-premise consumption. The BRI retail outlets operate under The Beer Store name. Brewers may deliver directly to BRI's outlets or may choose to use BRI's distribution centers to access retail stores in Ontario, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario system and licensed establishments.We, together with certain other brewers, have historically participated in the ownership of BRI in proportion to provincial market share relative to other brewers in the ownership group. Effective January 1, 2016, we, along with the other owners of BRI and the Province of Ontario, agreed to revise the ownership structure of BRI. The new BRI shareholder agreement (“New Shareholder Agreement”) adjusted the existing BRI ownership structure to allow all other small and large Ontario based brewers the ability to participate in the ownership of BRI. As part of this change, the board of directors of BRI has been expanded to include representation for these new ownership groups, as well as independent director representation. The new owners are subject to the same fee structure as the current owners, with the exception of smaller brewers, who have discounted 5Table of Contentsfees, as they are not required to fund certain costs associated with pension obligations. BRI will continue to operate on a break-even basis under the new ownership structure. BRI also converted all existing capital stock into a new share class, as well as created a separate new share class to facilitate new and existing brewer participation and governance. While governance and board of director participation continues to have the ability to fluctuate based on market share relative to the other owners, our equity interest has become fixed under the New Shareholder Agreement. Province of QuébecIn Québec, the distribution and sale of beer is governed by the Quebec Alcohol Corporation ("SAQ"). Beer is distributed to retail outlets directly by each brewer or through approved independent agents. We are the agent for the licensed brands we distribute. The brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise consumption. Québec retail sales for off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores, as well as government operated outlets. Province of British ColumbiaIn British Columbia, the government's Liquor Distribution Branch controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all alcohol products in the province. BDL, which we co-own with ABI, manages the distribution of our products throughout British Columbia. Consumers can purchase beer at any Liquor Distribution Branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. Establishments licensed primarily for on-premise alcohol sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption.Province of AlbertaIn Alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a government sponsored system in the case of U.S. sourced products. All sales of liquor in Alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and restaurants. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Alberta.Other ProvincesOur products are distributed in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan through local liquor boards. Manitoba and Saskatchewan also have licensed private retailers. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. In the Maritime Provinces (other than Newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell our products. In Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut, government liquor commissioners manage the distribution and sale of our products.Manufacturing, Production and PackagingBrewing Raw MaterialsWe select global suppliers in order to procure the highest quality materials and services at the lowest prices available. We also use hedging instruments to mitigate the risk of volatility in certain commodities and foreign exchange markets.We source barley malt from one primary provider, from which we have a committed supply through 2016. Hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the U.S. and Europe through contracts that vary in length based on market conditions and cover our supply requirements through at least 2018. Other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced from two main suppliers, both in North America. Water used in the brewing process is from local sources in the communities where our breweries operate. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products used in our brewing process in the near term.Brewing and Packaging FacilitiesWe operate seven breweries, strategically located throughout Canada. These locations brew and package all owned and certain licensed brands sold in, and exported from, Canada. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.Packaging MaterialsWe single source glass bottles and have a committed supply through December 2019. We source lids and cans from two primary providers with contracts ending December 2016 and February 2017, respectively. We are currently finalizing negotiations for a contract extension through December 2023 related to the contract expiring at the end of 2016. We currently utilize a hedging program for aluminum requirements and related transportation and storage costs in Canada. The distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network for returnable bottles and aluminum cans. The standard bottle for beer brewed in Canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle and represents the vast majority of our bottle sales. Bottle sales continue to decline as we have experienced a shift in consumers' preference toward aluminum cans. This standard returnable 6Table of Contentsbottle requires significant investment behind our returnable bottle inventory and bottling equipment. Therefore, the trend away from returnable bottles could result in higher fixed cost deleverage related to these assets and an ultimate decreased need for the assets that support this packaging, which could adversely impact profitability. A limited number of kegs are purchased every year, and we have no long-term supply commitment. Crowns are currently sourced from two suppliers with contracts through February 2016 and December 2018, respectively. We are currently finalizing negotiations for a contract extension through February 2017 related to the contract expiring in February 2016. Labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product under contracts ending between January 2016 and December 2018. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing any of our required packaging materials in the near term. The following table reflects the percentage of total sales volumes (excluding imports) for each of the last five years by type of packaging material.   2015 2014 2013 2012 2011Aluminum cans 53% 49% 46% 42% 39%Bottles 37% 40% 43% 47% 51%Stainless steel kegs 10% 11% 11% 11% 10%Contract ManufacturingWe have an agreement with North American Breweries, Inc. ("NAB") to brew, package and ship certain Labatt brands to the U.S. market through 2020. We also have an agreement with Asahi Breweries, Ltd. to brew and package Asahi Super Dry and Asahi Select to the U.S. market through early 2017.Seasonality of BusinessTotal industry volume in Canada is sensitive to factors such as weather, changes in demographics, consumer preferences and drinking occasions. Weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. Accordingly, consumption of beer in Canada is seasonal, with approximately 40% of industry sales volume typically occurring during the warmer months from May through August.Known Trends and Competitive Conditions2015 Canada Beer Industry OverviewThe Canadian brewing industry is a mature market. It is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from regional brewers, microbrewers and certain foreign brewers, as well as our main domestic competitor. These competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling activities. In 2015, the Ontario and Québec markets accounted for approximately 60% of the total beer market in Canada.There are three major beer price segments: above premium, which includes craft and most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light sub-segment; and value (below premium). Since 2001, the premium beer segment in Canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value segments. Recently, the beer industry has been weak, with declines in three of the last five years. Aging population, a stalled economy and strong competition from other alcohol beverages have been the main contributors to the declining state of the beer industry.The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcohol beverages as a component of the overall Canadian alcohol market over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We anticipate that 2015 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the recent consumer trends. Note that percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010Beer48% 48% 49% 50% 51%Other alcohol beverages52% 52% 51% 50% 49%Our Competitive PositionOur brands compete with competitor beer brands and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences among these other categories. Our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer segments.7Table of ContentsThe Canada brewing industry is composed principally of two major brewers, MCBC and ABI. The following table summarizes the estimated percentage share of the Canadian beer market represented by MCBC, ABI and all other brewers over the last five years. Note that the sum of the percentages below may not equal 100% due to rounding. Current year percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available.  2015 2014 2013 2012 2011MCBC share(1)34% 37% 39% 40% 41%ABI share(1)43% 43% 40% 41% 41%Others' share23% 21% 20% 19% 18%(1)The decrease in MCBC share in 2015 is largely driven by the loss of the Miller contract, under which we had exclusive rights to distribute certain Miller brands in Canada and was terminated effective March 2015. The decrease in MCBC share and increase in ABI share from 2013 to 2014 is primarily the result of ABI's acquisition of Grupo Modelo S.A.B. de C.V. ("Modelo") in 2013. Subsequent to the termination of Modelo Molson Imports, L.P. ("MMI"), our joint venture with Modelo in Canada, in the first quarter of 2014, the Modelo brands are now distributed by ABI in Canada.RegulationIn Canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling and pricing of beer (including the establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production, distribution and sale of beer. In addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes on both domestically produced and imported beer. In 2015, our Canada segment excise taxes were approximately $63 per hectoliter sold on a reported basis. Further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign governments, especially with the United States, affect the Canadian beer industry. In April 2014, the Ontario Premier's Advisory Council on Government Assets (the "Council") began a review that included evaluating the beer retailing and distribution system in Ontario, for which BRI is the primary beer retail and distribution channel. In April 2015, as a result of this review and our negotiations with the Council, we, along with the other owners of BRI, agreed, in principle and subject to entry into definitive binding documents, to enter into a new beer framework agreement (the "New Framework") with the Province of Ontario. The associated Master Framework Agreement was subsequently executed by all parties on September 22, 2015, and became effective as of January 1, 2016. Refer to Part I—, Risk Factors for risks associated with the regulatory environment in the U.S.Europe SegmentWe are the second largest brewer by volume, on a combined basis, within the European countries in which we operate, with an approximate aggregate 20% market share (excluding factored products) in 2015. The majority of our European segment sales are in the U.K., Croatia, Czech Republic and Romania. Our portfolio includes beers that have the largest share in their respective countries, such as Carling in the U.K., Jelen in Serbia, Ozujsko in Croatia, Kamenitza in Bulgaria and Niksicko in Montenegro. We have beers that rank in the top three in market share in their respective segments throughout the region, 10Table of Contentsincluding Staropramen in Czech Republic, Bergenbier in Romania and Borsodi in Hungary. We also brew and distribute Beck's, Lowenbrau, Spaten and Stella Artois under license agreements with ABI companies, and beginning in January 2015, we distribute certain of the Modelo brands throughout the Central European countries in which we operate. Additionally, our Europe segment includes our consolidated joint venture arrangements for the production and distribution of Grolsch and Cobra brands in the U.K. and Republic of Ireland and factored brand sales (beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us). In the third quarter of 2015, we purchased the Rekorderlig cider brand distribution rights in the U.K. and Ireland and also sold our U.K. malting facility. In the second quarter of 2015, we closed a brewery in the U.K. and terminated our distribution agreement with Carlsberg whereby it held the exclusive distribution rights for the Staropramen brand in the U.K. As a result, we repatriated the Staropramen brand back to the U.K. at the end of 2015. Sales and DistributionIn Europe, beer is generally distributed through either a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers, or a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. Most of our beer in the U.K. is sold directly to retailers. We have an agreement with Tradeteam Ltd. ("Tradeteam", a subsidiary of DHL) to provide the distribution of our products throughout the U.K. through 2023. It is also common in the U.K. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies, which we refer to as factored brands, to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). Approximately 20% of our Europe segment net sales in 2015 represented factored brands. Factored brand sales are included in our net sales and cost of goods sold, but not included in our reported volumes.Generally, over the years, volumes in Europe have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market.Off-Premise ChannelIn Europe, the off-premise channel includes sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 60% of our Europe sales volume in 2015. The off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a small number of super-store chains, placing increasing downward pressure on beer pricing.On-Premise ChannelThe on-premise channel includes sales to pubs and restaurants. The on-premise channel accounted for approximately 40% of our Europe sales volume in 2015. The installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we own refrigeration units and other equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers that are used in on-premise outlets. This includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and counter mounts. Similar to other brewers, we utilize loans in securing supply relationships with customers in the on-premise market in the U.K. These loans can be granted at below-market rates of interest, with the outlet purchasing beer at lower-than-average discount levels to compensate. We reclassify a portion of sales revenue to interest income to reflect the economic substance of these loans. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 1, "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes for additional information.DistributionDistribution activities for both the on-premise and off-premise channels are conducted primarily by third-party logistics providers. We utilize Tradeteam for these activities in the U.K. and several hundred third-party logistics providers across our Central European operations. We also conduct a small amount of secondary distribution in Czech Republic utilizing our own fleet of vehicles. Manufacturing, Production and PackagingBrewing Raw MaterialsWe use the highest quality water, barley, malt and hops to brew our products. During 2015, our malt requirements were sourced from both third party suppliers and owned production, using our malt-house in the U.K. In 2015, we entered into an agreement to sell our malting facility in the U.K. and, concurrent with the sale, entered into a 10-year contract with the purchaser of the facility to replace the malt that we previously produced covering 38% of our total required malt. We also have multiple agreements with various suppliers in the region to cover the remaining requirements, most of which are valid for the next 3-5 years. Hops are purchased under various contracts with suppliers in Germany, the U.S. and the U.K., which cover our requirements through 2016. Adjuncts are purchased under various contracts with local producers, which are typically crop year contracts commencing in October of each year. Water used in the brewing process is sourced from various wells and through 11Table of Contentswater rights and supply contracts. We do not currently anticipate future difficulties in accessing required water or agricultural products used in our brewing process in the near term.Brewing and Packaging FacilitiesWe operate twelve breweries in Europe, which brew and package brands sold in Europe. As part of the continued strategic review of our European supply chain network, in the first quarter of 2015 we closed our brewing facility in Alton, Hampshire, U.K. and in the fourth quarter of 2015 we closed our brewery in Plovdiv, Bulgaria. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2015, we announced the proposal and entered into a consultation process to close our Burton South brewery in the U.K. in which we will consolidate production within our recently modernized Burton North brewery. This closure is expected to be completed in 2017. See Item 2, "Properties" for additional information. Packaging MaterialsApproximately 27% of our Europe volumes sold in 2015 were packaged in bottles, with a significant majority in returnable bottles sourced under various agreements with third party suppliers. Kegs and casks comprised approximately 29% of volume sold in Europe in 2015. Cans represent approximately 25% of our Europe volumes sold in 2015. We have long term contracts with four providers for our required supply of cans. Approximately 19% of our Europe volume sold in 2015 consisted of products packaged in recyclable plastic containers for which we are currently negotiating agreements for our 2016 requirements with various manufacturers in the region. Crowns, labels and corrugate are purchased from sources unique to each category. We do not currently foresee future difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the near term.Contract ManufacturingIn December 2013, we entered into an agreement with Heineken to early terminate our contract brewing and kegging agreement with the transition period ending April 30, 2015, under which we produced and packaged the Foster's and Kronenbourg brands in the U.K. Our existing agreement with Heineken, whereby they sell, market and distribute Coors Light in Republic of Ireland, continues through December 2019. The agreement to contract brew ales for Carlsberg terminated at the end of 2015 and was not renewed.Seasonality of BusinessIn Europe, the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major televised sporting events. Weather conditions consisting of high temperatures and extended periods of warm weather favor increased consumption of our products, while unseasonably cool or wet weather, especially during the summer months, adversely affects our sales volumes and net sales. Accordingly, the peak selling seasons typically occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holiday season. Known Trends and Competitive Conditions2015 Europe Beer Industry OverviewWe estimate that the Europe beer market increased by approximately 1% in 2015, driven by increased beer consumption versus last year primarily during the summer season which had especially favorable weather. Since 2010, the off-premise market share has increased in our European markets from 55% to nearly 60% of total volume, and the on-premise market share has declined from 45% to 40%. Europe beer industry retail shipments have declined by approximately 1% to 2% yearly since 2011. These market fluctuations are consistent with the fluctuations within the overall alcohol market in each of the respective years.The following table summarizes the estimated percentage market share by volume of beer (including adjacencies, such as cider) and other alcohol beverages as a component of the overall European alcohol market, within the countries in which we have production facilities, over the last five years, for which data is currently available. We anticipate that 2015 data, when available, will reflect a continuation of the recent consumer trends. Note that percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available. 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010Beer 36% 36% 36% 36% 36%Other alcohol beverages64% 64% 64% 64% 64%12Table of ContentsOur Competitive PositionOur beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders. We believe our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories. In European countries where we operate, our primary competitors are Heineken, SABMiller, Carlsberg and ABI. The following table summarizes our estimated percentage share of the beer market within the European countries where we operate and our primary competitors over the last five years. Note that current year percentages reflect estimates based on market data currently available. 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011MCBC share20% 20% 20% 20% 20%Primary competitors' share59% 59% 59% 60% 60%Others' share21% 21% 21% 20% 20%RegulationEach country that is part of our Europe segment is either a member of the European Union ("EU") or a current candidate to join, with the exception of Bosnia, which is a potential candidate, and, as such, there are similarities in the regulations that apply to many parts of our Europe segment's operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment and data protection regulations. To operate breweries and conduct our business in Europe, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from various governmental agencies. Each country's government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages. With the exception of Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia, all countries' laws on excise taxes are consistent with the directives of the EU. With the exception of Serbia, where a flat excise per hectoliter is used, all European countries use similar measurements based on either alcohol by volume or Plato degrees. In 2015, the excise taxes for our Europe segment were approximately $50 per hectoliter on a reported basis. Refer to Part I—Item 1A, Risk Factors for risks associated with the regulatory environment in Europe.Molson Coors International SegmentThe objective of MCI is to grow and expand our business and brand portfolio in new and existing markets, including emerging markets, outside the Canada, U.S. and Europe segments. The focus of MCI includes Latin America (including Mexico, Central America, the Caribbean and South America and excluding Puerto Rico, as it is part of the U.S. segment) Asia, Europe (excluding U.K., Ireland and Central Europe, as they are a part of the Europe segment) and Australia. The MCI portfolio of beers competes within the above-premium category in most of our markets. Our principal competitors include large global brewers, as well as local brewers. As MCI's objective is to grow and expand our business, we are developing scale and building market share in the countries where we operate. Many of the markets in which we operate are considered emerging beer markets, with other brewers controlling the majority of the market share. Our beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories.Standalone BusinessOur standalone operations are in the Asia region and are based in India, Japan and China. Our business in India consists of our joint venture which gives us a majority share and operational control of Molson Coors Cobra India as well as Mount Shivalik Breweries Ltd., which we acquired during the second quarter of 2015. Our consolidated India business produces, markets and sells a beer portfolio consisting of Thunderbolt, Iceberg 9000, Carling Strong, Cobra, King Cobra and Royal Brew in select Indian states. We own and operate three breweries in India, where we use the highest quality ingredients to brew our products, which are sourced through various contracts with local suppliers. We do not foresee any risk of significant disruption in the supply of these raw materials or brewing inputs in the near term.In Japan our focus is on the marketing and selling of the Blue Moon, Coors Light, Coors 1873 and Zima brands. We also have a contract with ABI to sell and distribute the Modelo brands. These brands are imported into Japan and are sold through independent wholesalers to both the on-premise and off-premise channels.Our China business sells the Coors family of brands. During the second quarter of 2015, we announced our decision to substantially restructure our China business which we have transitioned to a distribution model. 13Table of ContentsExport BusinessOur export business focuses on expanding the reach of our international brands which are exported from our breweries in the U.S., U.K. and Czech Republic. The brands sold include Blue Moon, Carling, Cobra, Coors 1873, Coors Light and Staropramen. In Latin America, our products, primarily Coors Light, Coors 1873 and Blue Moon, are sold through agreements with independent distributors. We also sell our brands, primarily Staropramen, Coors Light and Carling in several countries in Europe. License BusinessOur license business builds long term partnerships with leading global brewers to market and grow our international brands in markets which typically have a greater barrier to entry. This business includes licensing arrangements with ABI to brew and distribute Staropramen in Russia and Ukraine and an exclusive licensing agreement with Heineken to brew and distribute Coors Light in Mexico. We also have various licensing agreements for the manufacturing and distribution of Carling primarily in Spain, Russia and Ukraine. Finally, we also have licensing agreements for the manufacturing and distribution of Coors and Blue Moon in Australia and Coors Light and Coors 1873 in Chile, Colombia and Paraguay.CorporateCorporate includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments. The majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, tax, internal audit, management of intellectual property, insurance and risk management. Additionally, the results of our water resources and energy operations in Colorado are included in Corporate. Other InformationGlobal Intellectual PropertyWe own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patent and design registrations with expiration dates through 2038 relating to beer dispensing systems, packaging and certain other innovations. We are not reliant on patent royalties for our financial success. Therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business.Corporate ResponsibilityCorporate responsibility, or Our Beer Print, is integral to our business strategy. We are committed to growing our business the right way while improving the impact we have on our communities, our people and the environment. Since 2012 we have been listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, and were named Beverage Sector Leader in 2012 and 2013. We have retained a position on the World Index since 2012, for 4 consecutive years.In 2012, Molson Coors built on long-standing efforts to reduce harmful drinking by becoming a signatory of the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers’ Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking (www.producerscommitments.org). In support of the Commitments we have a robust plan to ensure support across the business, with particular emphasis on our commercial activity through a Commercial Integrity Policy incorporating the recently launched International Alliance for Responsible Drinking Digital Guiding Principles. Our approach to improving Our Beer Print within our brewing operations is outlined in our 2020 Sustainability Strategy found on our website at www.molsoncoors.com. Launched in 2013, our 2020 Sustainability Strategy integrates how we manage energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water and solid waste and sets out how we intend to meet our 2020 ambitions. The cornerstone of our 2020 Sustainability Strategy is a commitment to invest in waste water treatment and generate clean energy from this waste stream. These investments will alleviate the impact of our operations on municipal water treatment resources, reduce our reliance on fossil fuels and save greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental MattersOur operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. Such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation, and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material in any 14Table of Contentsone year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate reserves have been provided for losses that are probable and estimable. However, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such laws. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 18, "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes under the caption "Environmental" for additional information regarding environmental matters.Employees As of the end of 2015, we had approximately 9,100 full-time employees within MCBC globally, including 6,000 within our Europe segment, 2,400 within our Canada segment, 500 within our MCI segment, and 200 within our Corporate headquarters in Colorado. Additionally, as of December 31, 2015, MillerCoors had approximately 8,400 full-time employees. There have been no significant changes in our number of employees since December 31, 2015. Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export SalesSee Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 3, "Segment Reporting" of the Notes for discussion of sales, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.Available InformationWe file with, or furnish to, the SEC reports, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports are available free of charge on our corporate website (www.molsoncoors.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of any materials we file with the SEC can be obtained at www.sec.gov or at the SEC's public reference room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the public reference room is available by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. The information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report.Executive OfficersThe following tables set forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 11, 2016:Name Age PositionPeter H. Coors 69 Vice Chairman of the Board, Chairman of Coors Brewing Company and Chairman of the Board of MillerCoors LLCMark R. Hunter 53 President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLC David A. Heede 54 Interim Chief Financial Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCKrishnan Anand 58 President and Chief Executive Officer, Molson Coors InternationalSimon J. Cox 48 President and Chief Executive Officer, Molson Coors EuropeStewart F. Glendinning 50 President and Chief Executive Officer, Molson Coors CanadaSamuel D. Walker 57 Chief People and Legal Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCCelso L. White 54 Chief Supply Chain Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCBrenda Davis 56 Chief Integration OfficerITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORSThe reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. The risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. We may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects.Risks Specific to the Pending AcquisitionWe cannot predict when or if the pending Acquisition will close.       The acquisition of the 58% equity interest and 50% voting interest of MillerCoors that we do not already own and the Miller brand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico is contingent upon a number of conditions beyond our control, including the closing of the ABI-SABMiller Transaction. The closing of the ABI-SABMiller Transaction is subject to conditions beyond our control, including, among other things, receipt of international and U.S. regulatory approvals. The Acquisition will also require us to obtain regulatory approvals in the U.S. and 15Table of Contentscertain other jurisdictions. We are, therefore, unable to accurately predict when or if the pending Acquisition will close. If we are unable to close the Acquisition for any reason, we will not realize the potential benefits of the Acquisition, which may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects. We may not be able to realize anticipated cost synergies from the pending Acquisition.    The success of the pending Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost synergies. Our success in realizing these cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of our business and operations with the acquired business and operations. Even if we are able to integrate the acquired businesses and operations successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the cost synergies of the pending Acquisition that we currently expect within the anticipated time frame or at all.The pending Acquisition will subject us to significant additional liabilities and other risks.    Following the pending Acquisition, we will be subject to substantially all the liabilities of MillerCoors, including, among others, significant pension liabilities. We will also be subject to the risks of the U.S. beer market to a much greater extent, and a significant majority of our overall business will be in mature, low growth beer markets, such as the U.S., Canada and the U.K. The pending Acquisition and subsequent integration process will be complex, costly, time-consuming and divert management’s time and attention, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may be unable to obtain the regulatory approvals required to complete the pending Acquisition or, in order to do so, we may be required to satisfy material conditions or comply with material restrictions.      In addition to the international and U.S. regulatory approvals needed to close the ABI-SABMiller Transaction, the consummation of the pending Acquisition is also subject to review and approval by regulatory authorities, including by the United States Department of Justice. We can provide no assurance that all required regulatory approvals will be obtained in order to consummate the pending Acquisition. We have agreed to take all actions necessary, and assist and cooperate in doing all things necessary, to avoid or eliminate any legal impediments to the pending Acquisition, including divesting of up to $4 billion in assets. There can be no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of the actions that may be required to obtain regulatory approvals. Any such divestitures or other actions could have a material adverse effect on the business of both us and MillerCoors and substantially diminish the synergies and other advantages which we expect from the pending Acquisition. In addition, we may not be able to affect any divestitures at an acceptable price or at all. The pending Acquisition will impact our financial position.    We will need to raise significant capital to fund the pending Acquisition and such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms. We expect to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness in connection with the pending Acquisition in addition to our Class B common stock offering completed in February 2016. If we are unable to raise significant additional capital on acceptable terms we may need to rely on our bridge loan agreement, which may result in substantially higher borrowing costs and a shorter maturity than those from other anticipated financing alternatives. In addition, ratings agencies may downgrade our credit ratings below their current investment grade levels as the results of additional indebtedness related to the pending Acquisition. A ratings downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing and harm our ability to finance the pending Acquisition on acceptable terms or refinance our debt in the future.As a result of the need to raise significant financing to fund the pending Acquisition, we currently intend to hold per share dividends constant and have suspended both our dividend target of 18% to 22% of trailing annualized EBITDA and our share repurchase program. We also intend to use cash from operations to fund the Acquisition and service and reduce our debt level, which will reduce funds available for other operational or strategic needs and may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions.The incurrence of future indebtedness to fund the pending Acquisition may subject us to additional financial and operating restrictions.    Future indebtedness may subject us to additional financial and operating covenants, which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. If we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial covenants or if we breach other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. Such a default may allow our creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies.Our overall leverage and terms of our financing could, among other things:     •limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions;•make it more difficult to satisfy our obligations under the terms of our indebtedness;    •limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all;    16Table of Contents•limit our flexibility to plan for and adjust to changing business and market conditions and increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;    •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby limiting the availability of our cash flow to fund future acquisitions, working capital, business activities, and other general corporate requirements; and•limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, to fund growth or for general corporate purposes, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, particularly if any ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward.    We face numerous risks associated with the pending Acquisition and integration of the Miller brand portfolio outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico.    The pending acquisition of the Miller brand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico may subject us to unknown expenses and liabilities due to our limited due diligence of the business, including among other things, the absence of historical financial statements for this part of the business. The success of our acquisition of the Miller brand portfolio outside of the U.S. and Puerto Rico will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating its business with our existing businesses and operations. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming as the Miller brand portfolio assets are in over 50 foreign countries. The difficulties of integrating the operations include, among others:•failure to implement our business plan for the combined business; •unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems; •possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, contracts, procedures and policies;•impacts of change in control provisions in contracts and agreements;•failure to retain key customers and suppliers; •unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; •failure to recruit and retain key employees to operate the combined business; •inherent operating risks in the business; •unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; •unfamiliarity with operating in many of the countries in which the international Miller brand portfolio operates;•reliance on a competitor, ABI, to provide transition services for this business;•failure to develop sustainable routes to market upon the expiration of ABI’s transition services;•difficulty in fully separating the Miller brand portfolio from SABMiller’s current brand portfolio; and•inability to perform satisfactory due diligence on the business prior to closing of the Acquisition.    We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of the Company and the international Miller brand portfolio had achieved or might achieve separately. Although we have a downward purchase price adjustment if the unaudited U.S. GAAP EBITDA for the international Miller brand portfolio for the four quarters prior to closing is below $70 million, such adjustment may not be adequate to protect us from the future harm of acquiring an underperforming or declining brand portfolio. In addition, we may not accomplish the integration of the international Miller brand portfolio smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. Moreover, the markets in which the international Miller brand portfolio operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any economic downturn affecting those markets could negatively impact the international Miller brand portfolio. These markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which we have historically operated. If we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the international Miller brand portfolio or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the potential cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the acquisition of the Miller brand portfolio outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In such case, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be negatively impacted.If we are unable to consummate the pending Acquisition, our stock price may be adversely affected and our financial condition may materially suffer.    If the pending Acquisition is not completed for any reason, the trading price of our Class A 17Table of Contentscommon stock or Class B common stock may decline to the extent that the market price of our Class A common stock or Class B common stock reflects positive market assumptions that the pending Acquisition will be completed and the related benefits will be realized. In addition, if the Acquisition is not completed our financial condition could materially suffer, including:•subject to certain reimbursement rights under the Purchase Agreement, the incurrence of significant costs related to the Acquisition without the associated benefits of completing the Acquisition, such as legal, accounting, filing, financial advisory, bridge and term loan financing and integration costs that have already been incurred or will continue up to the closing of the Acquisition. The amount of such operating expenses, fees and capital expenditures we incur in connection with the Acquisition will be based on a variety of factors but may be material;•increased dividend costs as a result additional capital stock issued without the associated benefits of completing the pending Acquisition;•if we complete a financing of debt securities prior to closing the pending Acquisition, the incurrence of significant interest expense and potential redemption premiums with respect to such debt securities without the associated benefits of completing the pending Acquisition; and•potential disruption to our business and distraction of our workforce and management team.We will incur substantial transaction fees and costs in connection with the pending Acquisition.    We expect to incur a significant amount of non-recurring expenses in connection with the pending Acquisition, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other expenses. Subject to certain reimbursement rights under the Purchase Agreement, many of these expenses are payable by us whether or not the pending Acquisition is completed. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred following consummation of the pending Acquisition in the course of the integration of our businesses with that of MillerCoors and the international Miller brand portfolio. We cannot be certain that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term, or at all.The pending Acquisition will significantly increase our goodwill and other intangible assets.    We have a significant amount, and following the pending Acquisition will have an additional amount, of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements that are subject to impairment based upon future adverse changes in our business or prospects. The impairment of any goodwill and other intangible assets may have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. Risks Specific to Our CompanyThe global beer industry is constantly evolving, and our position within the global beer industry and our markets in which we operate may fundamentally change. If we do not successfully transform along with the evolving industry and market dynamics, then the result could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.   The brewing industry has significantly evolved over the years becoming an increasingly global beer market. For many years, the industry operated primarily on local presence with modest international expansion achieved through export, license and partnership arrangements, whereas it has now become increasingly complex as the consolidation of brewers has occurred globally resulting in fewer major global market participants. At the same time, smaller local brewers within certain geographies are seeing accelerated growth as consumers increasingly place value on locally-produced, regionally-sourced products. As a result of the increased global consolidation of brewers and the dynamic of an expanding new segment within the industry with new market entrants, the markets in which we operate, particularly the more mature markets, may evolve at a disadvantage to our current market position and local governments may intervene, which may fundamentally accelerate transformational changes to such markets. For example, U.S. and Canada beer markets have long consisted of a select number of significant market participants with government-regulated routes to market. However, recent evolution in these markets and emerging changes to consumer preferences have introduced a significant expansion of market entrants and resulted in increased consumer choice and market competition, as well as increased government scrutiny. Specifically, in Canada changes to the existing historical framework of regulations, distribution models, and packaging requirements, such as government-owned retail outlets and industry standard returnable bottles may be disadvantageous to us. Currently, in Ontario and other provinces, provincial governments are reviewing this historical foundation as a result of this market evolution and increased demand by some for government intervention to enhance competition and choice. As further described below, in addition to these risks related to growing competition and market evolution, the existing Ontario distribution models may be changed in ways that are unfavorable to us and the industry standard returnable bottle agreement may change in ways that adversely impact our operating model across Canada. If we are unsuccessful in evolving with, and navigating through, the changes to the markets in which we operate, the above risk could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.18Table of ContentsCompetition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    In most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than we do, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. In all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies, such as reduced pricing, brand positioning, and increased capital investments by these competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands, negative impacts on our distributor networks and predatory marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. Further, distributor consolidation could reduce our ability to promote our brands in the market in a manner that enhances rather than diminishes their value, as well as reducing our ability to manage our pricing effectively. These factors could result in lower margins or loss of market share, due to increased pressures for reduced pricing or difficulties in increasing prices while remaining competitive within our markets, as well as the need for increased capital investment, marketing and other expenditures. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature, so growth opportunities may be more limited to us than to our competitors. The above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets specific to the beer industry; if consumer preferences shift away from our products or consumption of our products decline, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.    Our Coors Light and Molson Canadian brands in Canada, Coors Light and Miller Lite brands in the U.S., and Carling, Staropramen, Jelen, Ozujsko and Coors Light brands in Europe represented half of each respective segment's sales volumes in 2015. Additionally, several of our brands represent a significant share of their respective market, therefore volatility in these markets could disproportionately impact the performance of these brands. Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics, downturn in economic conditions or perceived value, as well as changes in consumers' perception of our brands due to negative publicity, regulatory actions or litigation. Additionally, in some of our major markets, specifically Canada and the U.S., there has been a recent shift in consumer preferences within the total beer market away from premium brands to "craft beer" produced by small, regional microbreweries, as well as a shift within the total alcohol beverage market from beer to wine and spirits. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature and we have significant share, therefore small movements in consumer preference can disproportionately impact our results. As a result, a shift in consumer preferences away from our products or beer could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Continued weak, or further weakening of, economic conditions in the markets in which we do business could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    Beer consumption in many of our markets is closely tied to general economic conditions and a significant portion of our portfolio consists of premium and above premium brands. Difficult macroeconomic conditions in our markets, such as decreases in per capita income and level of disposable income driven by increases to inflation, income taxes, the cost of living, unemployment levels, political or economic instability or other country specific factors could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products. For example, we have continued to experience economic pressures in certain European markets through 2015, resulting in an increased consumer trend toward value brands within the impacted markets. This trend, along with other contributing factors, negatively impacted sales, as well as impairments of certain European brands, including Jelen, which were recorded in the third quarter of 2015. A continuation of this trend or further deterioration of the current economic conditions could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets.    In connection with various business combinations, we have historically allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. These assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. Additionally, in conjunction with the brand impairment tests, we also reassess each brand's indefinite-life classification. Potential resulting charges from an impairment of goodwill or brand intangible, as well as reclassification of an indefinite-lived to a definite-lived brand intangible, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For example, the results of our interim brand impairment review completed in the third quarter of 2015, indicated that the fair value of certain European indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values. As a result, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $275.0 million recorded within special items in our consolidated statements of operations during the third quarter of 2015. Additionally, during this review, we also reassessed each brand's indefinite-life classification and determined that these impaired brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. These brands have therefore been reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets to be amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years. 19Table of ContentsOur most recent impairment analysis, conducted as of October 1, 2015, the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter, indicated that while our Canada reporting unit improved from the prior year, our Europe reporting unit declined and was determined to be at risk of failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. Specifically, the fair value of the Europe and Canada reporting units were estimated at approximately 9% and 20% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. Additionally, the fair value of the Molson core brands in Canada, were also at risk of failing the quantitative analysis of the indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test as of October 1, 2015. The Europe reporting unit, and Molson core brands in Canada, are therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows (including prolonged, or further weakening of, adverse economic conditions or significant unfavorable changes in tax, environmental or other regulations, including interpretations thereof), terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. Although the fair value in excess the of carrying value has increased for the Canada reporting unit from the October 1, 2014 testing date, the fair value is sensitive to potential unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows, macroeconomic conditions, market multiples or discount rates that could have an adverse impact. Any future impairment of the Europe or Canada reporting units or Molson or other brands, or reclassification of indefinite-lived brands to definite-lived, may result in material charges that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, the testing of our goodwill for impairment is predicated upon our determination of our reporting units. Any change to the conclusion of our reporting units or the aggregation of components within our reporting units could result in a different outcome to our annual impairment test. See Part II—Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Critical Accounting Estimates and Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 11, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" of the Notes for additional information related to the results of our annual impairment testing.Termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    We manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint venture, licensing, distribution, contract brewing or other similar arrangements. The loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, our 2015 Europe results were adversely impacted by the termination of our brewing and kegging agreement with Heineken under which we produced and packaged the Foster’s and Kronenbourg brands in the U.K. Additionally, Canada volumes were also adversely impacted by the termination of our license agreement with Miller Brewing Company (“Miller”) in 2015. Further, subsequent to ABI's acquisition of Grupo Modelo in 2013, we entered into an agreement to accelerate the termination of our MMI joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories, which resulted in an adverse impact on our 2015 and 2014 Canadian volumes upon final termination in the first quarter of 2014. Changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    Our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. An example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. Any negative change in these agreements or material terms within these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.We rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging materials we need to operate our business. The inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products.    We purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum cans and bottles, glass bottles and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. Consolidation of packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. The inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Risks associated with operating our joint ventures may materially adversely affect our business and financial results.    We have entered into several joint ventures, including our MillerCoors joint venture in the United States and Puerto Rico with SABMiller. We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. In addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our other markets. Disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships. Our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or to seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. For example, we terminated our MMI joint venture that imported, distributed and marketed the Modelo beer brand portfolio across all Canadian provinces and territories, which, since termination in the first quarter of 2014, has had an adverse effect on our Canadian volumes and financial results. The above risk, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.20Table of ContentsOur operations in developing and emerging markets expose us to additional risks which could harm our business and financial results.    We expect our operations in developing and emerging markets to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally including in connection with our proposed acquisition of the Miller brand portfolio outside the U.S. and Puerto Rico. In certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; import and export requirements; increased costs to ensure compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences.In addition, as a global company, we are subject to foreign and U.S. laws and regulations designed to combat governmental corruption, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and a materially negative effect on our brands and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies.Changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results.    In our U.S. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products sold through MillerCoors (including our non-U.S. products). That system, consisting of required separation of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, is increasingly subject to legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. To the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse effect on MillerCoors and, consequently, on us. Further, in Canada, our products are required to be distributed through each province's respective provincial liquor board. Additionally, in certain provinces, we rely on our joint venture arrangements, such as BRI and BDL, to distribute our products via retail outlets that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. BRI owns and operates commercial retail outlets, known as The Beer Store, in Ontario, and BDL facilitates the distribution of our products in the Western provinces. Recent review of government assets in Ontario has included an evaluation of the BRI distribution model which was finalized in second half of 2015. We continue to evaluate and are beginning to implement actions to mitigate any adverse impacts to our Canada segment that may result from these changes. See additional risks specific to BRI under the "Risks Specific to the Canada Segment" heading below. If provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    Our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various jurisdictions regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. Examples of this are the recent changes in the Canadian tax legislation and regulatory assessments received in Europe in the first quarter of 2015 and fourth quarter of 2014 related to the interpretation of the application of tax on the production and sale of our products. Failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof, or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to adding new tax laws, the interpretation of, and potential future developments in, complex domestic and international tax laws and regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. Finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized and coordinated on a global basis, seeking to impose laws or regulations or to bring actions against us, to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. To the extent such views gain traction in regulations of jurisdictions in which we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2015, in Bihar, India, the largest state in India in which MCI operates, it was announced that regulatory changes could impact the sale and distribution of alcohol, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.21Table of ContentsOur consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the Canadian dollar and the European operating currencies such as, but not limited to, Euro, British Pound, Czech Koruna, Croatian Kuna, Serbian Dinar, New Romanian Leu, Bulgarian Lev and Hungarian Forint.    We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in Canada and throughout Europe. Because our financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into USD. Increases and decreases in the value of the USD will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. Additionally, we are exposed to currency transaction risks related to transactions denominated in currencies other than one of the functional currencies of our operating entities, such as the purchase of certain raw material inputs or capital expenditures, as well as sales transactions and debt issuances or other incurred obligations. Further, certain actions by the government of any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could adversely affect our results and financial position. To the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks through our risk management policies intended to protect our exposure to currency movements, which may affect our operations, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the recent strengthening of the USD against the Canadian dollar, European currencies and various other global currencies, if continued, would adversely impact our USD reported results due to the impact on foreign currency translation. Our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results.    We use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials, some of which are purchased through supply contracts with third parties, to produce our products, including barley, malted barley, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum cans and bottles, glass and polyethylene terephthalate (“PET”) containers, as well as, cardboard and other paper products. We also use a significant amount of diesel fuel, natural gas and electricity in our operations. The supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, alternative sources for suppliers, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. To the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks and we are not able to pass these increased costs along to customers, our financial results could be materially adversely impacted.Climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business and financial results.    There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in global weather patterns and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. Clean water is a limited resource in many parts of the world and climate change may increase water scarcity and cause a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. The competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. Even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations. The above risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Loss or closure of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    Our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities or the key facilities of our significant suppliers. Additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses. In addition, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by under-investment in physical assets or production capacity, including contract brewing and effect on priority of our brands if production capacity is limited. Further, significant excess capacity at any of our breweries as a result of increased efficiencies in our supply chain process or continued volume declines, could result in under-utilization of our assets, which could lead to excess overhead expenses or additional costs incurred associated with the closure of one or more of our facilities. For example, as part of a strategic review of our supply chain network, certain breweries and bottling lines were closed during 2015 in which we incurred costs during the year and for which we may incur additional costs during 2016. There may be further brewery closures as part of our ongoing assessment to ensure that our supply chain capacity is aligned with the needs of the business. 22Table of ContentsFailure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.    We have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. In order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business such as the pending Acquisition. See above "Risks Specific to the Pending Acquisition" for further details. Potential risks associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint venture partners' competitive transaction terms; our ability to raise capital on reasonable terms to finance attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business and financial results could be materially adversely impacted.Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably affect our business, liquidity and our financial results.    Our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. While we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. These funding requirements may also require contributions even when there is no reported deficit. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations (or the timing of such contributions) could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position and/or results of operations. For example, following the completion of the triennial review of the U.K. pension plan with the plan's trustees in 2014, we made a GBP 150 million contribution to our U.K. pension plan in January 2015, based on the underfunded status of the plan and the evaluation of the plan's performance and long-term obligations.Failure to comply with our debt covenants or a deterioration in our credit rating could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain future financing at competitive rates and/or our ability to refinance our existing indebtedness.   Under the terms of each of our debt facilities, we must comply with certain restrictions. These include restrictions on priority indebtedness (certain threshold percentages of secured consolidated net tangible assets), leverage thresholds, liens, and restrictions on certain types of sale lease-back transactions and transfers of assets. Failure to comply with these restrictions or maintain our credit rating may result in issues with our current financing structure and potential future financing requirements. A deterioration in our credit rating could also affect our ability to obtain future financing or refinance our current debt, as well as increase our borrowing rates, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results.We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business.    The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization, or who join our organization as a result of an acquisition, in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Due to a high concentration of workers represented by unions or trade councils in Canada, Europe, and at MillerCoors in the U.S., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues.    Approximately 59%, 31% and 36% of our Canadian, MillerCoors and European workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. Stringent labor laws in the U.K. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. A labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.The success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property.    It is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. Concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. Deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. In 23Table of Contentsaddition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the Molson or Coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. Further, the success of our Company is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate these rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Because of our reliance on third-party service providers and internal and outsourced systems for our information technology and certain other administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business.    We rely exclusively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. Additionally, we rely on internal networks and information systems and other technology, including the internet and third-party hosted services, to support a variety of business processes and activities, including procurement and supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, invoicing and collection of payments. We use information systems for certain human resource activities and to process our employee benefits, as well as to process financial information for internal and external reporting purposes and to comply with various reporting, legal and tax requirements. We also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources and other information technology functions to third-party service providers. As information systems are critical to many of our operating activities, our business may be impacted by system shutdowns, service disruptions or security breaches. Additionally, if one of our service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. Further, our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of a breach to our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business, employee, customer or vendor information and disruption of our operations. If our information systems suffer severe damage, disruption or shutdown and our remediation plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience delays in reporting our financial results and we may lose revenue and profits as a result of our inability to timely manufacture, distribute, invoice and collect payments from our customers. Misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in a violation of data privacy laws and regulations, damage our reputation and credibility. In addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. We could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems.If the Pentland Trust and the Coors Trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders or if a super-majority of our board of directors do not agree on certain actions, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders or a majority of our board of directors.    Pentland Securities (1981) Inc. (the "Pentland Trust") (a company controlled by the Molson family and related parties) and the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust (the "Coors Trust"), which together control more than 90% of our Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares, have a voting trust agreement through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our Class A common stock and the Class A exchangeable shares that they own. In the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees are required to vote all of the Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trust against the matter. There is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreement to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. Therefore, if either the Pentland Trust or the Coors Trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board of directors, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. Similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. Thus, it is possible that the Company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board of directors. The interests of the controlling stockholders may differ from those of other stockholders and could prevent the Company from making certain decisions or taking certain actions that would be in the best interest of the other stockholders.    Our Class B common stock has fewer voting rights than our Class A common stock and holders of our Class A common stock have the ability to effectively control or have a significant influence over certain company actions requiring stockholder approval, which could have a material adverse effect on Class B stockholders. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 8, "Stockholders' Equity" of the Notes for additional information regarding voting rights of Class A and Class B stockholders.Risks Specific to the Canada SegmentGovernment mandated changes to the retail distribution model resulting from new regulations may have a material adverse effect on our Canada business.    Beer sales are highly regulated by the Canadian government. For example, in Ontario, off-premise beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario ("LCBO"), or approved agents of the LCBO. In April 2014, the Ontario Premier's 24Table of ContentsAdvisory Council on Government Assets (the "Council") began a review that included evaluating the beer retailing and distribution system in Ontario, for which BRI is the primary beer retail and distribution channel. In April 2015, as a result of this review and our negotiations with the Council, we, along with the other owners of BRI, agreed, in principle and subject to entry into definitive binding documents, to enter into a new beer framework agreement (the "New Framework") with the Province of Ontario. The associated Master Framework Agreement was subsequently executed by all parties on September 22, 2015, and became effective as of January 1, 2016. Additionally, as a result of the above review, certain other legal matters could arise that could have a negative impact on our business, such as the litigation related to our ownership of BRI discussed in Part I—Item 3. Legal Proceedings. If the implementation of the provisions under the New Framework differ from our current expectations, it could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may experience adverse effects on our Canada business and financial results due to declines in the overall Canadian beer industry, continued price discounting, increased cost of goods sold and higher taxes.    If the Canadian beer market continues to decline, the impact to our financial results could be exacerbated due to our significant share of the overall market. Additionally, continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in Ontario, Québec, Alberta or other provinces, as well as increases in our cost of goods sold, could adversely impact our business. Further, changes in the Canadian tax legislation, such as the recent increase in beer excise taxes and the implementation of equalization and standardization of excise tax regulations in Quebec, could decrease our net sales. Moreover, the future success and earnings growth of the Canada business depends, in part, on our ability to efficiently conduct our operations. Failure to generate significant cost savings and margin improvement through our ongoing initiatives could adversely affect our profitability.In the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses.    Along with ABI and other brewers in Canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents approximately 37% of total volume sales (excluding imports) in Canada. Changes to the Industry Standard Bottle Agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. If we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets.Risks Specific to the United States Segment and MillerCoorsWe do not fully control the operations and administration of MillerCoors, which represents our interests in the U.S. beer business.    Pending our proposed Acquisition of 100% of MillerCoors, we jointly control MillerCoors with SABMiller and hold a 42% economic interest in the joint venture. While we direct the MillerCoors business through our equal representation on its board of directors (along with SABMiller) and otherwise impact its business activities through our ongoing communication and oversight, MillerCoors’ management is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the business. As a result, we do not have full control over MillerCoors’ activities. Our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of MillerCoors' management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with SABMiller and factors beyond our control that may affect SABMiller. For example, the loss of the services and expertise of any key MillerCoors employee could harm our business. Additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to MillerCoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. Certain rights of first refusal apply to any assignment of the joint venture interests. Any transfer of ownership interest could have a significant effect on our results of operations and financial position, as well as our ongoing internal and external business relationships. See risk factors related to the pending Acquisition of MillerCoors above. MillerCoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the United States to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products.    MillerCoors sells all of its products and many of our non-U.S. products in the United States to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. Consequently, if MillerCoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Risks Specific to the Europe SegmentEconomic trends and intense competition in European markets could unfavorably affect our profitability.    Our European businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and general economic and political conditions, as well as a continued weakening of their respective currencies versus the U.S. dollar. Our interim brand impairment review completed in the third quarter of 2015, indicated that the fair value of certain European indefinite-lived brand intangible assets were below their respective carrying values and we therefore recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $275.0 million. Additionally, during this review, we also reassessed each brand's indefinite-life classification and determined that these impaired brands have characteristics that have evolved which now indicate a definite-life is more appropriate. These brands have therefore been reclassified as definite-lived intangible assets to be amortized over useful lives ranging from 30 to 50 years. The decline in fair value of these brands was due, in part, to key changes to our 25Table of Contentsunderlying assumptions supporting the value of the brands. Specific changes include underperformance through the 2015 peak season driving a downward shift in management's forecasts, along with challenging macroeconomic and competitive conditions that we no longer expect to subside in the near term. Additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our European markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. In particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in Europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations. In addition, in recent years, beer volume sales in Europe have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. Margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely affect our profitability.In the event that a significant pub chain declared bankruptcy, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.    We extend credit to pub chains in the U.K., and in some cases the amounts are significant. Business at on-premise outlets has decreased since late 2008 as a result of a continued challenging economic environment in the U.K. While the economic environment in the U.K. has seen an upturn in 2015, some pub chains may continue to face increasing financial difficulty, if economic conditions do not stabilize. In the event that one or more significant pub chains were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Specific to the Molson Coors International SegmentAn inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects.    Our ability to grow our MCI segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets, on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets and in many cases our ability to find appropriate local partners. Due to product price, local regulatory changes, local competition from competitors that are larger and have more resources than we do and cultural differences, or absence of effective routes to market, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. If we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected.Risks Specific to Our Discontinued OperationsIndemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the Cervejarias Kaiser Brasil S.A. ("Kaiser") business in Brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges.    In 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in Kaiser to FEMSA Cerveza S.A. de C.V. ("FEMSA"). The terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify FEMSA for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. The ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. These indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, however, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future.ITEM 1B