ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors        


        The reader should carefully consider the following factors and the other information contained within this document. The most important
factors that could influence the achievement of our goals, and cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, the
following: 

 Risks Specific to Our Company  

         If Pentland and the Coors Trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other
stockholders.    Pentland Securities (a company controlled by Eric Molson, a related party) ("Pentland") and the Coors Trust, which together control more than
two-thirds of our Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of
our Class A common stock and the Class A exchangeable shares that they own. In the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder
vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts
against the matter. There is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. Therefore, if either Pentland or the Coors Trust is unwilling
to vote in favor of a transaction that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to complete the transaction even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the transaction is
beneficial for Molson Coors. 

         Our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more of these products or
markets
could materially adversely affect our financial results.    The combination of the Canadian and  Coors Light
brands represented more than 53% of our Canada segment's sales volume in 2008. Similarly, MillerCoors is dependent on  Miller Lite and Coors Light in
the U.S. Carling
lager is the best-selling brand in the United Kingdom and represented more than 80% of our U.K. segment sales volume in 2008. Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away
from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, would have a disproportionately large adverse impact on our business. Moreover, each of our major markets is mature, and in each we
face large competitors who have greater financial, marketing, and distribution resources and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. 

         Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact liquidity and results of
operations.    Our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount
rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, and our required and/or voluntary
contributions made to the plans. While we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. The recent
significant worldwide decline in equity prices and in the value of other financial investments, together with unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements, has significantly increased our pension
liabilities. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund
the plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position, or results of
operations. 

         We rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. The inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce
our
products.    We purchase certain types of packaging materials from a small number of suppliers. This packaging (including aluminum cans, aluminum can sheet, glass
bottles and paperboard) is unique and is produced by a limited number of suppliers. Consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local 

21




 

<A
HREF="#bg45903A_main_toc">Table of Contents



supply
alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. The inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements, or those of MillerCoors, without sufficient time to develop
an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

        Consolidation of brewers worldwide may lead to the termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our
business.    We manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies, including those of one or more competitors, through various licensing,
distribution or other arrangements in Canada and the United Kingdom. Beer industry consolidation may increase the competitive environment, straining our current and future relationships with our
partners. The loss of one or more of these arrangements could have a material adverse effect on the results of one or more reporting segments. 


        Because we will continue to face intense global competition, operating results may be unfavorably impacted.    The brewing industry
is highly
competitive and requires substantial human and capital resources. Competition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales
volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, in some of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial,
marketing, production and distribution resources than Molson Coors has. In all of the markets in which Molson Coors operates, aggressive marketing strategies by our main competitors could adversely
affect our financial results. 

        We may not properly execute, or realize the anticipated $250 million of cost savings or benefits from, our ongoing strategic initiatives.<FONT
SIZE=2>    Our
success is partly dependent upon properly executing and realizing cost savings or other benefits from the additional cost savings initiatives identified during 2007. These initiatives are primarily
designed to make the company more efficient across the whole of the business, which is a necessity in our highly competitive industry. These initiatives are often complex, and a failure to implement
them properly may, in addition to not meeting projected cost savings or benefits, result in a strain on the company's sales, manufacturing, logistics, customer service, or finance and accounting
functions. Any of these results could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of the company. 

         Changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition.    Our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial, and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing
requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise
locations, and other matters. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or
regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of
operations. Additionally, the combination of the Miller and Coors businesses may expose Molson Coors to regulatory risk arising from the legacy Miller portfolio. 

         Our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the British pound ("GBP") and the Canadian dollar
("CAD").    We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in Canada and in the United Kingdom.
Since our financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into USD at current exchange rates. Increases and decreases in the
value of the USD will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. We have active hedging programs to address
foreign exchange rate changes. However, to the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign
currency rates, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. 

22




 

<A
HREF="#bg45903A_main_toc">Table of Contents

         Our operations face significant commodity price change exposure which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.<FONT
SIZE=2>    We use a large
volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, corn, other various starches, water, and packaging materials, including aluminum, cardboard
and other paper products. We also use a significant amount of diesel fuel in our operations. The supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond
our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather
conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, plant diseases, and theft. To the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging, our results of operations
could be materially and adversely impacted. We have active hedging programs to address commodity price changes. However, to the extent we fail to adequately manage these risks, including if our
hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge
changes in commodity price risks, including price risk associated with diesel fuel and aluminum, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. 

         We could be adversely affected by overall declines in the beer market.    Consumer trends in some global markets indicate increases
in consumer
preference for wine and spirits, as well as for lower priced, value segment beer brands, which could result in loss of volume or a deterioration of operating margins. 

         The success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, and product quality. Deterioration to our brand equity may have a material effect on our operations and
financial
results.    It is important we have the ability to maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. The image and reputation of our products
may be reduced in the future; concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. Restoring the image and reputation of our
operations may be costly; operations and financial results may be adversely impacted. 

         Due to a high concentration of unionized workers in the United Kingdom, Canada and at MillerCoors in the U.S., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages,
or
other employee-related issues.    Approximately 63%, 29% and 33% of the Molson, CBL and MillerCoors workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions.
Although we believe relations with our employees and the MillerCoors employees are good, stringent labor laws in the U.K. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in
that market. 

         Changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business.    In 2006, the U.S.
Supreme Court ruled
that certain state regulations of interstate wine shipments are unlawful. As a result of this decision, states may alter the three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to
the distribution of products now sold through MillerCoors (including our on-U.S. products). Changes to the three-tier distribution system could have a materially adverse impact
on MillerCoors. Further, in certain Canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. If
provincial regulation should change, effectively eliminating the distribution channels, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business. 

         Because of our reliance on third-party service providers for certain administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business.<FONT
SIZE=2>    We
rely exclusively on one information services provider worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware, and software configuration. Additionally, during the
first quarter of 2008, we signed a contract with another third-party service provider to outsource a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources, and other
information technology functions. We transitioned much of the work to our service provider during 2008, and will continue that process, specifically for HR related activities during the first half of
2009. If one of these service providers were to fail and we were unable 

23




 


<A
HREF="#bg45903A_main_toc">Table of Contents



to
find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our information technology systems or other administrative tasks associated with the outsourced functions. 

         We may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives.    In
connection with
various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. These
assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. In Canada, a
significant portion of the purchase price of the 2005 merger between Molson and Coors was allocated to Molson's core brands, which have been assigned an indefinite life. Projected declines in sales
volume or net price realization, or projected increases in costs to produce these brands, could cause an impairment in their value. Further, in the event that the adverse financial impact of current
trends with respect to our U.K. business continues and is worse than we anticipate, we may be required to record impairment charges. These charges could be material and could adversely impact our
results of operations. 

 Risks Specific to Our Discontinued Operations  


        Indemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the Cervejarias Kaiser Brasil S.A. ("Kaiser") business in Brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of
operations
charges.    In 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in Kaiser to FEMSA Cerveza S.A. de C.V. ("FEMSA"). The terms of our 2006 agreement require us to
indemnify FEMSA for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. The ultimate resolution of these claims is not under
our control, and we cannot predict the outcomes of administrative and judicial proceedings that will occur with regard to these claims. It is possible that we will have to make cash outlays to FEMSA
with regard to these indemnities. These indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet in conjunction with the sale, we could incur future statement of operations charges as
facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items. Due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of
these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future. 


 Risks Specific to the Canada Segment  

        We may be required to provide funding to the entity that owns the Montréal Canadiens hockey club and certain related entertainment businesses pursuant to the guarantees
given to the National Hockey League ("NHL").    Pursuant to certain guarantees given to the NHL as a minority owner of the Montréal
Canadiens professional hockey club (majority ownership was sold by Molson in 2001) and certain related entertainment businesses, Molson may have to provide funding to the Club (joint and severally
based on our 19.9% ownership) to meet its obligations and its operating expenses if the Club cannot meet its obligations under various agreements. 


        We may experience continued discounting in Canada.    Price discounting in Quebec, especially in the Quebec off-premise channel,
negatively impacted our
volume performance and margins in our Canadian segment in 2008. The continuation, or the increase of such discounting, in Quebec or other in provinces, could further adversely impact our business. 

 Risks Specific to the U.S. Segment and MillerCoors  

         We may not realize cost savings and other benefits from MillerCoors due to challenges associated with integrating operations, technologies, sales, and other aspects of the
operations.    The success of MillerCoors will depend in part on the success of the management team in integrating the operations, technologies, and personnel of
MCBC's and SABMiller's former U.S. operations. The failure of MillerCoors to 

24




 

<A
HREF="#bg45903A_main_toc">Table of Contents

integrate
the two operations or otherwise realize the anticipated benefits of the joint venture transaction, including the estimated $500 million annual cost savings that we previously
projected, could unfavorably impact the results of operations of MillerCoors. In addition, the overall integration of MCBC and SABMiller's respective U.S. operations is a complex undertaking and,
accordingly, may result in unanticipated operational problems, expenses and liabilities, and diversion of management's attention. 

        The
challenges involved in this integration include the following: 



•integrating successfully the respective Miller and Coors U.S. operations, technologies, products and services;  
•reducing the costs associated with each company's U.S. operations;   
•coordinating sales, distribution, and marketing efforts to effectively promote the products of MillerCoors;  
•preserving distribution, marketing, or other important relationships of the U.S. operations of both Miller and Coors and
resolving potential conflicts that may arise;   
•successful integration of the distributorship structure of the two entities, including the resolution of disputes arising
from the consolidation of distributors arising from the MillerCoors joint venture;   
•coordinating and rationalizing research and development activities to accelerate introduction of new products and other
innovations;   
•retaining management, key employees and business partners;   
•assimilating the personnel and business cultures of both companies; and building employee morale and motivation. 


Any
adverse financial, operation or other events affecting MillerCoors could adversely affect our financial results or prospects. 

         We do not fully control the operations and administration of MillerCoors, our investment in which represents our interests in the U.S. beer
business.    We jointly control MillerCoors with SABMiller, and hold 42% economic interest in it. MillerCoors management is responsible for the day to day operations
of the business including brewing, distribution, sales, marketing (including the growth and preservation of brand equities), finance, information technology, human resources, legal, technical
operations, safety, environmental compliance, and relationships with governments. As we do not have full control over the activities of MillerCoors, our results of operations for those ventures are
dependent upon the efforts of MillerCoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with SABMiller, and factors beyond our control that may affect SABMiller. Additionally, our
disclosure controls and procedures with respect to MillerCoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries. 

         MillerCoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the United States to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our
products.    MillerCoors sells all of its products and our non-U.S. products in the United States to distributors for resale to retail outlets. Some of
these distributors are at a competitive disadvantage because they are smaller than the largest distributors in their markets. In addition, the regulatory environment of many states makes it very
difficult to change distributors. Consequently, if MillerCoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, their business, financial position, and results of
operation may be adversely affected. Consolidation of distributors is expected to occur following the formation of MillerCoors. The current state of the financial and credit markets may make it more
difficult for consolidation among distributors to occur. 

25




 

<A
HREF="#bg45903A_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Risks Specific to the United Kingdom Segment  

         Sales volume trends in the United Kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts
our profitability.    In recent years, beer volume sales in the U.K. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores
(off-premise), for the industry in general. A ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the U.K. enacted in 2007 accelerated this trend. Margins on sales to
off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation of these trends would further adversely impact our
profitability. 

         In the event that a significant pub chain were to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely
impacted.    We extend credit to pub chains in the U.K. in which some cases the amounts are significant. The continuing challenging economic environment in the U.K.
has caused business at on-premise outlets to slow in late 2008 and early 2009, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty if economic conditions do not improve. In the event that a
pub chain were to be unable to pay amounts owed to the Company as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. 

         Consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the United Kingdom could unfavorably impact pricing.    The trend
toward consolidation of
pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the United Kingdom. These larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could
impact CBL's ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to the spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and
profit margins. In addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. Further
consolidation could contribute to an adverse financial impact. 

         We depend exclusively on one logistics provider in England, Wales, and Scotland for distribution of our CBL products.    Tradeteam
handles all of the
physical distribution for CBL in England, Wales and Scotland, except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. If Tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products
and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact. 

<A
NAME="ce45903_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B