Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and the discussions regarding our Canada, Central Europe, U.K. and MCI segments.Our ProductsWe have a diverse portfolio of owned and partner brands, including signature brands Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Carling and Staropramen, which are positioned to meet a wide range of consumer segments and occasions in a variety of markets.Brands sold in Canada include Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Molson Export, Molson Canadian 67, Coors Light Iced T, Molson Dry, Molson M, the Rickard's family of brands, Carling, Carling Black Label, Pilsner, Keystone, Creemore Springs, the Granville Island brands, Caffrey's, Cobra, and a number of other regional brands. We also brew or distribute under license the following brands: Heineken, Amstel Light, Murphy's, Newcastle Brown Ale and Strongbow cider under license from Heineken N.V. ("Heineken"), and Miller Lite, Miller Genuine Draft, Miller Chill, Milwaukee's Best, and Milwaukee's Best Dry under license from SABMiller plc ("SABMiller"). In 2012, we continued to brew the Foster's brand under license from Foster's Group Limited ("Foster's") although this license was terminated in December 2012. We are also party to a joint venture with Grupo Modelo S.A.B. de C.V. ("Modelo") that imports, distributes and markets the Modelo beer brand portfolio, including the Corona, Coronita, Negra Modelo, and Pacifico brands, across all Canadian provinces and territories. In Canada, we also have 3Table of Contentscontract brewing agreements to produce for the U.S. market Asahi and Asahi Select for Asahi Breweries, Ltd. and Labatt Blue and Labatt Blue Light for North American Breweries, Inc.MillerCoors sells a wide variety of brands in the U.S. In the formation of the MillerCoors joint venture, MCBC and SABMiller each assigned the United States and Puerto Rican ownership rights to its respective legacy brands to MillerCoors, but retained all ownership of these brands outside the United States and Puerto Rico. MillerCoors' flagship premium light brands are Coors Light, Miller Lite and Miller64. Brands in the domestic premium segment include Coors Banquet and Miller Genuine Draft. Brands in the below premium segment include Miller High Life, Keystone, Icehouse, Mickey's, Milwaukee's Best, Hamm's, and Old English 800 brands. MillerCoors also brews or distributes under license the Molson and Foster's brands and George Killian's Irish Red. Craft and import brands, marketed and sold through Tenth and Blake, include the Blue Moon brands, Henry Weinhard's brands, Leinenkugel's brands, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Pilsner Urquell, Batch 19, Grolsch, Worthington's, St. Stefanus and cider brands from the Crispin Cider Company. Brands in the non-alcoholic segment include Coors Non-Alcoholic and Sharp's. Brands sold in Central Europe include Staropramen, Branik, Ostravar, Ozujsko, Borsodi, Kamenitza, Astika, Jelen, Niksicko, Bergenbier, Noroc and Apatinsko as well as other regional brands. The Central European business has licensing agreements with various other brewers through which it also brews or distributes the Stella Artois, Hoegaarden, Leffe, Beck's, Lowenbrau, Spaten, Löwenweisse and Belle-Vue Kriek brands in certain central European countries.Brands sold in the U.K. and Ireland include: Carling, Carling Zest, Coors Light, Worthington's, White Shield, Red Shield, Caffrey's, Sharp's Doom Bar, and Blue Moon, as well as a number of smaller regional ale brands. We also sell the Grolsch brands through a joint venture with Royal Grolsch N.V. and the Cobra brands through a joint venture called Cobra Beer Partnership Ltd., and are the exclusive distributor for several brands which are sold under license, including Corona, Coronita, Negra Modelo, Pacifico, and Singha. Additionally, in order to be able to provide a full line of beer and other beverages to our U.K. on-premise customers, we sell "factored" brands, which are third-party beverage brands for which we provide distribution to retail, typically on a non-exclusive basis.MCI also markets and sells several of our brands in its international markets. Brands unique to these international markets include Zima, Iceberg brands, Coors Gold, and Coors Extra.Canada SegmentWe are Canada's second-largest brewer by volume and North America's oldest beer company. Our approximate market share of the Canada beer market in 2012 was 39%. We brew, market, sell and distribute a wide variety of beer brands nationally. Our portfolio has leading brands in all major product and price segments. Our focus and investment is on key owned brands, including Coors Light, Molson Canadian, Carling, Molson Dry, Molson Export, Rickard's, Pilsner, Creemore Springs and Granville Island and strategic distribution partnerships, including those with Heineken, Modelo and SABMiller. In 2012, Coors Light had an approximate 14% market share and was the top selling beer brand in Canada, and Molson Canadian had an approximate 8% market share and was the third top selling beer in Canada.The Canada segment also includes our partnership arrangements related to the distribution of beer in Ontario, Brewers' Retail Inc. ("BRI"), and in the Western provinces, Brewers' Distributor Ltd. ("BDL"). BRI and BDL are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.Sales and DistributionIn Canada, provincial governments regulate the beer industry, particularly with regard to the pricing, mark-up, container management, sale, distribution, and advertising of beer. Distribution and the retail sale of alcohol products involve a wide range and varied degree of Canadian government control through their respective provincial liquor boards.Province of OntarioIn Ontario, beer may only be purchased at retail outlets operated by BRI, at government-regulated retail outlets operated by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, at approved agents of the Liquor Control Board of Ontario, or at any bar, restaurant, or tavern licensed by the Liquor Control Board of Ontario to sell liquor for on-premise consumption. We, together with certain other brewers, participate in the ownership of BRI in proportion to provincial market share relative to other brewers in the ownership group. Brewers may deliver directly to BRI's outlets or may choose to use BRI's distribution centers to access retail stores in Ontario, the Liquor Control Board of Ontario system and licensed establishments.Province of QuébecIn Québec, beer is distributed to retail outlets directly by each brewer or through independent agents. We are the agent for the licensed brands we distribute. The brewer or agent distributes the products to permit holders for retail sales for on-premise 4Table of Contentsconsumption. Québec retail sales for off-premise consumption are made through grocery and convenience stores as well as government operated outlets.Province of British ColumbiaIn British Columbia, the government's Liquor Distribution Branch controls the regulatory elements of distribution of all alcohol products in the province. BDL, which we co-own with a competitor, manages the distribution of our products throughout British Columbia. Consumers can purchase beer at any Liquor Distribution Branch retail outlet, at any independently owned and licensed retail store or at any licensed establishment for on-premise consumption. Establishments licensed primarily for on-premise liquor sales may also be licensed for off-premise consumption.Province of AlbertaIn Alberta, the distribution of beer is managed by independent private warehousing and shipping companies or by a government sponsored system in the case of U.S. sourced products. All sales of liquor in Alberta are made through retail outlets licensed by the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission or licensees, such as bars, hotels and restaurants. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Alberta.Other ProvincesOur products are distributed in the provinces of Manitoba and Saskatchewan through local liquor boards. Manitoba and Saskatchewan also have licensed private retailers. BDL manages the distribution of our products in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. In the Maritime Provinces (other than Newfoundland), local liquor boards distribute and sell our products. In Yukon, Northwest Territories and Nunavut, government liquor commissioners manage the distribution and sale of our products.Manufacturing, Production and PackagingBrewing Raw MaterialsWe select global suppliers in order to procure the highest quality materials and services at the lowest prices available. We also use hedging instruments to mitigate the risk of volatility in certain commodities and foreign exchange markets.We source barley malt from one primary provider. Hops are purchased from a variety of global suppliers in the U.S., Europe, and New Zealand. Other starch brewing adjuncts are sourced from two main suppliers, both in North America. We do not foresee any significant risk of disruption in the supply of these agricultural products. Water used in the brewing process is from local sources in the communities where our breweries operate. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.Brewing and Packaging FacilitiesWe operate seven breweries, strategically located throughout Canada, which brew and package all owned and certain licensed brands sold in and exported from Canada. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.Packaging MaterialsWe single source glass bottles and have a committed supply through 2014. We source cans and lids from two primary providers and are currently negotiating long-term contracts with each. We currently utilize a hedging program for aluminum requirements in Canada. We do not expect any future difficulties in accessing glass bottles or aluminum cans. The distribution systems in each province generally provide the collection network for returnable bottles and aluminum cans. The standard container for beer brewed in Canada is the 341 ml returnable bottle, which in 2012 represented a significant majority of the approximately 47% of volume sales in Canada in bottles. In 2012, aluminum cans accounted for approximately 42% of our volume sales in Canada. In 2012, we sold approximately 11% of our beer volume in stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased every year, and we have no long-term supply commitment. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. We do not foresee difficulties in accessing these packaging products in the near future.Contract ManufacturingWe have an agreement with North American Breweries, Inc. to brew, package and ship Labatt trademark brands to the U.S. market through 2016.5Table of ContentsSeasonality of BusinessConsumption of beer in Canada is seasonal. In 2012, approximately 40% of our sales volume occurred during the four months from May through August, which is consistent with our historical results.Known Trends and Competitive Conditions2012 Canada Beer Industry OverviewThe Canadian brewing industry is a mature market. It is characterized by aggressive competition for volume and market share from regional brewers, microbrewers and certain foreign brewers, as well as our main domestic competitor. These competitive pressures require significant annual investment in marketing and selling activities.There are three major beer price segments: above premium, which includes most imports; premium, which includes the majority of domestic brands and the light sub-segment; and value (below premium).Since 2001, the premium beer segment in Canada has gradually lost volume to the above premium and value segments. From 2003 to 2008, Canada beer industry shipments annual average growth rate approximated 1%. For each of 2009 and 2010, there were slight declines, and for each of 2011 and 2012, there were approximate declines of 2% in Canada beer industry shipments.Our Competitive PositionOur brands compete with competitor beer brands and other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus our competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer segments.The Canada brewing industry is composed principally of two major brewers, MCBC, which had approximately 39% of the market share in 2012, and Anheuser-Busch InBev ("ABI"), which had approximately 42% of the market share in 2012. In 2012, the Ontario and Québec markets accounted for approximately 61% of the total beer market in Canada.RegulationIn Canada, provincial governments regulate the production, marketing, distribution, selling, and pricing of beer (including the establishment of minimum prices), and impose commodity taxes and license fees in relation to the production and sale of beer. During November 2012, an increase in beer excise taxes of over 20% was announced and affected in Québec. In addition, the federal government regulates the advertising, labeling, quality control, and international trade of beer, and also imposes commodity taxes, consumption taxes, excise taxes, and in certain instances, custom duties on imported beer. In 2012, our Canada excise taxes totaled $638.4 million or approximately $75 per hectoliter sold. Further, certain bilateral and multilateral treaties entered into by the federal government, provincial governments and certain foreign governments, especially with the United States, affect the Canadian beer industry.United States SegmentMillerCoors is the nation's second largest brewer by volume, selling approximately 29% of the total 2012 U.S. brewing industry shipments (excluding exports and U.S. shipments of imports). MillerCoors was formed on July 1, 2008 as a joint venture between MCBC and SABMiller. Each party contributed its U.S. and Puerto Rico businesses and related operating assets and certain liabilities. The percentage interests in the profits of MillerCoors are 58% for SABMiller and 42% for MCBC. Voting interests are shared 50%-50%, and MCBC and SABMiller have equal board representation within MillerCoors. MCBC and SABMiller each agreed not to transfer its economic or voting interests in MillerCoors for a period commencing on the date of combination and expiring on July 1, 2013, and certain rights of first refusal apply to any subsequent assignment. Our interest in MillerCoors is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.Prior to the formation of MillerCoors, MCBC produced, marketed, and sold the MCBC portfolio of brands in the United States and its territories, and its U.S. operating segment included the results of the Rocky Mountain Metal Container ("RMMC") and Rocky Mountain Bottle Container ("RMBC") joint ventures. Effective July 1, 2008, MCBC's equity investment in MillerCoors represents our U.S. operating segment.Sales and DistributionIn the United States, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers. A national network of approximately 450 independent distributors purchases MillerCoors' products and distributes them to retail accounts. In 2012, approximately 18% was sold on-premise in bars and restaurants, and the other 82% was sold 6Table of Contentsoff-premise in convenience stores, grocery stores, liquor stores and other retail outlets. MillerCoors wholly owns one distributorship, which handled less than 1% of its total volume in 2012.Manufacturing, Production and PackagingBrewing Raw MaterialsMillerCoors uses the highest quality ingredients to brew its products. MillerCoors malts a portion of its production requirements, using barley purchased under yearly contracts from independent farmers located in the western United States. Other barley, malt, and cereal grains are purchased from suppliers primarily in the U.S. Hops are purchased from suppliers in the U.S., New Zealand and certain European countries. MillerCoors has water rights to provide for and to sustain brewing operations in case of a prolonged drought in the regions for which it has operations. MillerCoors does not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.Brewing and Packaging FacilitiesThere are eight major breweries/packaging facilities which produce MillerCoors products. MillerCoors imports Molson brands and Worthington's from MCBC and Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Pilsner Urquell, Grolsch, and other import brands from SABMiller.Packaging MaterialsOver half of U.S. products sold were packaged in aluminum cans in 2012. A portion of aluminum cans were purchased from RMMC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Ball Corporation ("Ball"), whose production facilities are located near the brewery in Golden, Colorado. In addition to the supply agreement with RMMC, MillerCoors has a commercial supply agreement with Ball to purchase cans and ends in excess of what is supplied through RMMC; these agreements have various expiration dates. In 2011, MillerCoors signed a 10-year contract extension with Ball to extend the RMMC joint venture agreement along with the commercial can and end purchase agreements. Approximately one-third of U.S. products sold in 2012 were packaged in glass bottles of which a portion was provided by RMBC, a joint venture between MillerCoors and Owens-Brockway Glass Container, Inc ("Owens"). The joint venture with Owens, as well as a supply agreement with Owens for the glass bottles required in excess of RMBC's production, expires in 2015. The approximate remaining 10% of U.S. production volume sold in 2012 was packaged in half, quarter, and one-sixth barrel stainless steel kegs. A limited number of kegs are purchased each year, and there is no long-term supply agreement. Crowns, labels, corrugate and paperboard are purchased from a small number of sources unique to each product. MillerCoors does not foresee difficulties in accessing packaging products in the near future.Contract ManufacturingMillerCoors has an agreement to brew, package and ship products for Pabst Brewing Company through June 2020. Additionally, MillerCoors produces beer under contract for our MCI segment and SABMiller.Seasonality of the BusinessMillerCoors U.S. sales volumes are normally lowest in the winter months (first and fourth quarters) and highest in the summer months (second and third quarters).Known Trends and Competitive Conditions2012 U.S. Beer Industry OverviewThe beer industry in the United States is highly competitive, and the two largest brewers, ABI and MillerCoors together represented approximately 77% of the market in 2012. The formation of MillerCoors in 2008 created a stronger U.S. presence for MCBC with the scale, operational efficiency and distribution platform to compete more effectively in the U.S. market place. Growing or even maintaining market share has required significant investments in marketing. From 1998 to 2008, the U.S. beer industry shipments annual growth rate approximated 1%, compared with declines ranging from 1% to 2% in each of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011. In 2012, industry volumes improved, with estimated overall growth of 1% to 2%.The 2009 to 2011 decline in the U.S. beer industry has been partially attributed to relatively poor economic conditions. High rates of unemployment and lower consumer confidence have negatively affected the legal age key beer drinkers' purchasing behaviors. 7Table of ContentsOur Competitive PositionThe MillerCoors portfolio of beers competes with numerous above-premium, premium, and economy brands. These competing brands are produced by international, national, regional and local brewers. MillerCoors competes most directly with ABI, but also competes with imported and craft beer brands. MillerCoors is the nation's second largest brewer by volume, selling approximately 29% of the total 2012 U.S. brewing industry shipments (including exports and U.S. shipments of imports). This compares to ABI's estimated market share of 48%.MillerCoors' products also compete with other alcohol beverages, including wine and spirits, and thus their competitive position is affected by consumer preferences between and among these other categories. Driven by increased spirits advertising along with increased wine and spirits sales execution, sales of wine and spirits have grown faster than sales of beers in recent years, resulting in a reduction in the beer segment's lead in the overall alcohol beverage market.RegulationThe U.S. beer business is regulated by federal, state, and local governments. These regulations govern many parts of MillerCoors' operations, including brewing, marketing and advertising, transportation, distributor relationships, sales, and environmental issues. To operate their facilities, MillerCoors must obtain and maintain numerous permits, licenses and approvals from various governmental agencies, including the U.S. Treasury Department; Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau; the U.S. Department of Agriculture; the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; state alcohol regulatory agencies; and state and federal environmental agencies.Governmental entities also levy taxes and may require bonds to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. U.S. federal excise taxes on malt beverages approximated $15 per hectoliter in 2012. State excise taxes are levied in specific states at varying rates. Central Europe SegmentAs a result of our Acquisition of StarBev, we are Central Europe's third largest brewer by volume with an approximate 22% market share in 2012. The majority of sales are in Czech Republic, Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and Hungary. Our portfolio includes beers that have the largest share in their respective countries, such as Jelen in Serbia and Ozujsko in Croatia. We have beers that rank in the top four in market share in countries throughout the region, including Staropramen, Bergenbier, Kamenitza and Borsodi. We also brew and distribute Stella Artois, Beck's, Lowenbrau and Spaten under license agreements with ABI companies.Sales and DistributionIn Central Europe, beer is generally distributed through a three-tier system consisting of manufacturers, distributors and retailers, except for on-premise sales in Czech Republic and to certain key international accounts for which we sell directly to retailers. Off-Premise ChannelThe off-premise channel includes sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel accounted for approximately 70% of our Central Europe sales volume in 2012, of which approximately 36% consisted of sales made through wholesalers to smaller outlets (which is referred to as "traditional off-trade") and approximately 34% consisted of direct sales to large retailers (which is referred to as "modern off-trade").On-Premise ChannelThe on-premise channel accounted for approximately 30% of our Central Europe sales volume in 2012. The installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we own refrigeration units and other equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers that are used in on-premise outlets.DistributionDistribution activities for both the on-premise and off-premise channels are conducted primarily by third-party logistics providers, of which there are several hundred operating across the Central European business. We also conduct a small amount of secondary distribution in Czech Republic utilizing our own fleet of vehicles. 8Table of ContentsManufacturing, Production and PackagingBrewing Raw MaterialsWe have entered into long term contracts with two suppliers for most of our required malt for 2012. These contracts are with Boortmalt and Malteries Soufflet and expire in December 2015 and December 2020, respectively. The remaining 20% was acquired from various malt suppliers in the region. Hops are purchased under various contracts with German suppliers, which cover our anticipated needs through June 2014, and adjuncts are purchased under various contracts with local producers, which cover 80% of our needs for 2013. Water used in the brewing process is sourced through water rights and supply contracts. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing required water or agricultural products. Brewing and Packaging FacilitiesWe operate nine breweries in Central Europe, which brew and package all owned brands sold in Central Europe. See Item 2, "Properties" for further detail. Packaging MaterialsReturnable bottles represented a significant majority of the approximately 46% of bottle volume sales in Central Europe in 2012. We have contracts with two primary providers for returnable bottles. Approximately 27% of our Central Europe volume sales in 2012 consisted of products packaged in recyclable plastic containers for which we have one year agreements with various manufacturers in the region. Approximately 15% of our Central Europe volume sales in 2012 consisted of products packaged in cans, of which 95% were aluminum and 5% were steel. We have long term contracts with three providers for our required supply of cans. The remaining amount of our Central Europe volume sales in 2012 consisted of products packaged in returnable kegs. A limited number of steel kegs are purchased each year, and we are currently negotiating a long-term supply agreement for our steel keg requirements. Crowns, labels and corrugate are purchased from a small number of sources. We do not foresee difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the near future. Seasonality of BusinessIn Central Europe, the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and major televised sporting events. Peak selling seasons typically occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holidays. Known Trends and Competitive Conditions2012 Central Europe Beer Industry OverviewThe Central Europe beer market grew volume by approximately 1% in 2012, with volumes shifting from the higher margin on-premise channel to the lower margin off-premise channel. Since 2008, the off-premise market share has increased from 65% to 67% of total volume, and the on-premise market share has declined from 35% to 33%. Central Europe beer industry shipments have increased by approximately 1% in each of 2011 and 2012 after declines of approximately 10% in 2009 and approximately 5% in 2010.Our Competitive PositionOur principal competitors are SABMiller, Heineken, and Carlsberg Group ("Carlsberg"), with estimated regional market shares in 2012 of approximately 27%, 26%, and 8%, respectively, compared to our share of 22%.RegulationEach country that is part of our Central Europe segment is either a member of the European Union or a current candidate to join, and, as such, there are similarities in the regulations that apply to many parts of our Central Europe segment's operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment and data protection regulations. To operate breweries and conduct our business in Central Europe, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from various governmental agencies. Each country's government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages, and all countries, with the exception of Serbia, use similar measurements based on alcohol by volume or Plato degrees. Currently, Serbia uses a flat excise per hectoliter but is moving toward alignment with the other countries. In 2012, the excise taxes for our Central Europe segment totaled $131.5 million, or approximately $17 per hectoliter. 9Table of ContentsUnited Kingdom SegmentWe are the United Kingdom's second-largest brewer by volume, with an approximate 18% share (excluding factored products) of the U.K. beer market in 2012. Sales are primarily in England and Wales, with Carling representing more than two-thirds of our total U.K. segment beer volume. The U.K. segment consists of our production and sale of the MCBC brands in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, our joint venture arrangements for the production and distribution of Grolsch and Cobra brands in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland, factored brand sales (beverage brands owned by other companies, but sold and delivered to retail by us), and our Tradeteam joint venture arrangement with DHL (formerly Exel Logistics) for the distribution of products throughout the U.K. Tradeteam is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Additionally, we distribute the Modelo brands, including Corona, pursuant to a distribution agreement with Modelo.Sales and DistributionIn the U.K., beer is generally distributed through a two-tier system consisting of manufacturers and retailers. Most of our beer in the U.K. is sold directly to retailers. It is also common in the U.K. for brewers to distribute beer, wine, spirits, and other products owned and produced by other companies to the on-premise channel (bars and restaurants). Approximately 20% of our U.K. segment net sales in 2012 represented factored brands. Factored brand sales are included in our net sales and cost of goods, but are not included in our reported volumes.Generally, over the past three decades, volumes have shifted from the higher margin on-premise channel, where products are consumed in pubs and restaurants, to the lower margin off-premise channel, also referred to as the "take-home" market.On-Premise ChannelThe on-premise channel accounted for approximately 64% of our U.K. sales volumes in 2012. The on-premise channel has two sub-categories: multiple on-premise and independent on-premise. Multiple on-premise refers to those customers who own a number of pubs and restaurants and independent on-premise refers to individual owner-operators of pubs and restaurants. In 2012, approximately 47% and 53% of our on-premise volume sales were made to multiple (including national wholesalers) and independent on-premise customers, respectively. In recent years, pricing competition in the on-premise channel has intensified as the retail pub chains have consolidated. As a result, the larger pub chains have been able to negotiate lower beer prices from brewers. The installation and maintenance of draught beer dispensing equipment in the on-premise channel is generally the responsibility of the brewer. Accordingly, we own equipment used to dispense beer from kegs to consumers. This includes beer lines, cooling equipment, taps, and counter mounts.Similar to other U.K. brewers, we utilize loans in securing supply relationships with customers in the on-premise market. Loans are normally granted at below-market rates of interest, with the outlet purchasing beer at lower-than-average discount levels to compensate. We reclassify a portion of sales revenue to interest income to reflect the economic substance of these loans. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 1 "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes for further discussion.Off-Premise ChannelThe off-premise channel accounted for approximately 36% of our U.K. sales volume in 2012. The off-premise channel includes direct sales to supermarkets, convenience stores, liquor stores, distributors, and wholesalers. The off-premise channel has become increasingly concentrated among a small number of super-store chains, placing increasing downward pressure on beer pricing.DistributionDistribution activities for both the on- and off-premise channels are conducted by Tradeteam, which operates a system of satellite warehouses and a transportation fleet.Manufacturing, Production and PackagingBrewing Raw MaterialsWe use the highest quality water, barley and hops to brew our products. During 2012, we produced 100% of our required malt using U.K. sourced barley. Hops and adjuncts used in the brewing process are purchased from agricultural sources in the U.K., U.S. and on the European continent. Water used in the brewing process is sourced from various wells that have sufficient recharge capacity for assumed production. We do not anticipate future difficulties in accessing water or agricultural products.10Table of ContentsBrewing and Packaging FacilitiesWe operate four breweries in the U.K which brew and package all owned brands sold in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland with the exception of Coors Light, which is contract brewed in the Republic of Ireland. See "Contract Manufacturing" and Item 2, "Properties" for further detail.Packaging MaterialsWe used kegs and casks for approximately 59% of the U.K. products sold in 2012, reflecting a high percentage of product sold on-premise. Approximately 33% of our U.K. products sold in 2012 were packaged in steel cans with aluminum ends. All of our cans are purchased through a supply contract with Ball. Approximately 8% of the U.K. products sold in 2012 were packaged in glass bottles purchased through supply contracts with third-party suppliers. Crowns, labels, corrugate, and paperboard are purchased from sources unique to each product. We do not foresee difficulties in accessing these or other packaging materials in the near future.Contract ManufacturingWe have a contract brewing and kegging agreement with Heineken for the Foster's and Kronenbourg brands. We also have an agreement with Heineken whereby it will brew and package certain of our products for sale in the Republic of Ireland through December 2014. In addition, we have a multi-year agreement to contract brew ales for Carlsberg which began in 2011.Seasonality of BusinessIn the U.K., the beer industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations primarily influenced by holidays, weather and by certain major televised sporting events. Peak selling seasons occur during the summer and during the Christmas and New Year holidays.Known Trends and Competitive Conditions2012 U.K. Beer Industry OverviewSales in the U.K. beer market in 2012 declined by 5.1%, with on-premise sales declining 5.0% and off-premise sales decreasing 5.1%, impacted by poor summer weather and weak economic conditions. Despite a widening price differential between the on-premise (higher prices) and the off-premise (lower prices) channels, volumes in both channels declined in 2012. The recession has accelerated this downward trend. From 1997 through 2007, U.K. beer industry shipments declined at an average rate of 1% to 2% per year, compared to annual declines of approximately 4% from 2008 to 2012. While the industry has experienced a general trend away from ales and toward lagers, volume sales of premium bottled ales grew in the off-premise channel in 2012. Sales of lagers accounted for 74% of the total volume sales in the U.K. market in 2012.Our Competitive PositionOur beers compete not only with similar products from competitors, but also with other alcohol beverages, including wines, spirits, and ciders. With the exception of stout, where we do not have our own brand, we believe our brand portfolio gives us strong representation in all major beer categories. Carling was the number-one beer brand in the U.K. in 2012, and Coors Light is one of the fastest growing major brands. We believe the Corona, Cobra and Grolsch brands position us well to take advantage of the growth in more premium world beers alongside our portfolio of imported and specialty beer brands, such as Singha and Blue Moon. In addition, Doom Bar is one of the fastest growing brands in the craft segment.Our principal competitors are Heineken, ABI, and Carlsberg, with market shares in 2012 of approximately 24%, 17%, and 14%, respectively, compared to our market share of 18%.RegulationU.K. regulations apply to many parts of our operations and products, including brewing, food safety, labeling and packaging, marketing and advertising, environmental, health and safety, employment, and data protection regulations. To operate our breweries and carry on business in the U.K., we must obtain and maintain numerous permits and licenses from local Licensing Justices and governmental bodies, including Her Majesty's Revenue & Customs; the Office of Fair Trading; the Data Protection Commissioner and the Environment Agency.The U.K. government levies excise taxes on all alcohol beverages at varying rates depending on the type of product and its alcohol content by volume. In 2012, our excise taxes totaled $904.6 million, or $108 per hectoliter. In 2010, the U.K. government announced that alcohol excise tax rates will increase at a rate of 2% above U.K. inflation annually through 2015.11Table of ContentsMolson Coors International SegmentThe objective of MCI is to grow and expand our business and brand portfolios in our non-core and emerging markets, which includes Asia, continental Europe (excluding Central Europe, as it is a part of the Central Europe segment), Mexico, Latin America and the Caribbean (excluding Puerto Rico, as it is a part of the U.S. segment).AsiaThe MCI Asia region is primarily composed of businesses in India, Japan and China. Our joint venture in India gives us a 51% share and operational control of Molson Coors Cobra India ("MC Cobra India"). MC Cobra India produces, sells and markets a beer portfolio consisting of King Cobra, Cobra and Iceberg's 9000. The results of MC Cobra India are consolidated in our financial statements. The Japan business is focused on the Zima, Coors Light and Modelo brands. Our China business is focused on growing Coors Light and other brands. During the third quarter of 2012, we deconsolidated our 51% ownership in our joint venture in China, Molson Coors Si'hai ("MC Si'hai"), from our financial statements due to a loss of our ability to control the joint venture. EuropeOur Central Europe export and license business was added to MCI as part of the Acquisition and is primarily focused on Staropramen. This includes the licensing arrangements with ABI to brew and distribute our products in Russia and Ukraine, export arrangements with Carlsberg in the U.K. and Sweden and with ABI in Germany, Canada and Italy, and other export arrangements in various other countries. Our other businesses within continental Europe are focused on growing Carling, Coors Light and Cobra. These products are brewed by and exported from our U.K. breweries to portions of continental Europe. We also have various licensing agreements for the manufacturing and distribution of our products, primarily in Ukraine, Spain and Russia.Mexico, Latin America, the Caribbean, and OtherCoors Light is sold in Mexico through an exclusive licensing agreement with Heineken. In the Caribbean and Latin America, our products are produced under a brewing agreement with MillerCoors and are exported to and sold through agreements with independent distributors. CorporateCorporate includes interest and certain other general and administrative costs that are not allocated to any of the operating segments. The majority of these corporate costs relate to worldwide administrative functions, such as corporate affairs, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, insurance and risk management. Additionally, the results of our water resources and energy operations in Colorado are included in Corporate. Corporate also includes certain royalty income and administrative costs related to the management of intellectual property.Other InformationGlobal Intellectual PropertyWe own trademarks on the majority of the brands we produce and have licenses for the remainder. We also hold several patent and design registrations with expiration dates through 2049 relating to beer dispensing systems, packaging and certain other innovations. We are not reliant on patent royalties for our financial success. Therefore, these expirations are not expected to have a significant impact on our business.Corporate ResponsibilityOur corporate responsibility is integral to our business strategy. We are committed to sustainable growth while improving the impact we have on our communities, people and the environment. In 2012, we were named Global Beverage Sector Leader on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. We were listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index in 2011.Environmental MattersOur operations are subject to a variety of extensive and changing federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and ordinances that govern activities or operations that may have adverse effects on human health or the environment. Such laws, regulations or ordinances may impose liability for the cost of remediation, and for certain damages resulting from sites of past releases of hazardous materials. Our policy is to comply with all such legal requirements. While we cannot predict our eventual aggregate cost for the environmental and related matters in which we may be or are currently involved, we believe that any payments, if required, for these matters would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material in any one year to our operating results, cash flows, or our financial or competitive position. We believe adequate reserves have been 12Table of Contentsprovided for losses that are probable and estimable. However, there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not become more stringent in the future or that we will not incur material costs in the future in order to comply with such laws. See Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 20 "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes under the caption "Environmental" for additional information regarding environmental matters.Employees We have approximately 2,700 full-time employees in our Canada segment, of which 60% are represented by trade unions. We maintain agreements with the various unions representing workers at each of our facilities. MillerCoors has approximately 8,900 employees, of which 35% are represented by unions. Additionally, we have approximately 4,300 employees in our Central Europe segment within Czech Republic, Serbia, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Slovakia and we have approximately 2,200 employees in our U.K. segment, of which 25% of the U.K. total workforce is represented by trade unions. Furthermore, we have approximately 400 employees in our MCI business in 16 countries, primarily in Asia (India, Japan and China) and within our Denver headquarters office. Finally, we have approximately 200 employees in our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado. Financial Information about Foreign and Domestic Operations and Export SalesSee Part II—Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 4 "Segment Reporting" of the Notes for discussion of sales, operating income and identifiable assets attributable to our country of domicile, the United States, and all foreign countries.Available InformationOur internet website is http://www.molsoncoors.com. Through a direct link to our reports at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov, we make available, free of charge on our website, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the SEC. The foregoing website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. The information provided on our website (or any other website referred to in this report) is not part of this report and is not incorporated by reference as part of this report.Executive OfficersThe following tables set forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 15, 2013:Name Age PositionPeter Swinburn 60 President, Chief Executive Officer, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCKrishnan Anand 55 President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors InternationalPeter H. Coors 66 Vice Chairman of the Board of the Company, Executive Director of Coors Brewing Company, and Chairman of the Board of MillerCoors LLCStewart Glendinning 47 President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors Canada and a Director of MillerCoors LLCGavin Hattersley 50 Chief Financial Officer and a Director of MillerCoors LLCMark Hunter 50 President and Chief Executive Officer of Molson Coors EuropeCelso White 51 Chief Supply Chain OfficerSamuel D. Walker 54 Chief People and Legal Officer, Corporate Secretary, and a Director of MillerCoors LLCITEM 1A.    Risk FactorsThe reader should carefully consider the following risk factors and the other information contained within this document. The risks set forth below are those that management believes are most likely to have a material adverse effect on us. We may also be subject to other risks or uncertainties not presently known to us. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects.Risks Specific to Our CompanyCompetition in our markets could require us to reduce prices or increase capital and other expenditures or cause us to lose sales volume, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.    In most of our markets, our primary competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, production and distribution resources than 13Table of Contentswe, and are more diverse in terms of their geographies and brand portfolios. In all of the markets in which we operate, aggressive marketing strategies by these competitors could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, continuing consolidation among major global brewers may lead to stronger or new competitors, loss of partner brands and predatory marketing and pricing tactics by competitors. Moreover, several of our major markets are mature. Our products also compete for consumers against non-beer products such as wine, spirits and other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. Our success as an enterprise depends largely on the success of relatively few products in several mature markets; the failure or weakening of one or more of these products or markets could materially adversely affect our financial results.    Our Molson Canadian and Coors Light brands in Canada, Miller Lite and Coors Light brands in the U.S., and Carling brand in the U.K. represented more than half of each respective segment's sales in 2012. Consequently, any material shift in consumer preferences away from these brands, or from the categories in which they compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consumer preferences and tastes may shift away from our brands or beer generally due to, among others, changing taste preferences, demographics or perceived value. Beer consumption in many of our markets is also tied to general economic conditions. Difficult macro-economic conditions in our markets may result in lower sales volume.If Pentland and the Coors Trust do not agree on a matter submitted to stockholders, generally the matter will not be approved, even if beneficial to us or favored by other stockholders.    Pentland Securities (1981) Inc. (the "Pentland Trust") (a company controlled by the Molson family and related parties) and the Adolph Coors, Jr. Trust (the "Coors Trust"), which together control more than ninety percent of our Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares, have voting trust agreements through which they have combined their voting power over the shares of our Class A common stock and the Class A exchangeable shares that they own. In the event that these two stockholders do not agree to vote in favor of a matter submitted to a stockholder vote (other than the election of directors), the voting trustees will be required to vote all of the Class A common stock and Class A exchangeable shares deposited in the voting trusts against the matter. There is no other mechanism in the voting trust agreements to resolve a potential deadlock between these stockholders. Therefore, if either the Pentland Trust or the Coors Trust is unwilling to vote in favor of a proposal that is subject to a stockholder vote, we would be unable to implement the proposal even if our board, management or other stockholders believe the proposal is beneficial to us. Similarly, our bylaws require the authorization of a super-majority (two-thirds) of the board of directors to take certain transformational actions. Thus it is possible that the Company will not be authorized to take action even if it is supported by a simple majority of the board. In addition, our Class B common stock has fewer voting rights than our Class A common stock.Poor investment performance of pension plan holdings and other factors impacting pension plan costs could unfavorably impact liquidity and results of operations.    Our costs of providing defined benefit pension plans are dependent upon a number of factors, such as the rates of return on the plans' assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, exchange rate fluctuations, future government regulation, global equity prices, and our required and/or voluntary contributions to the plans. While we comply with the minimum funding requirements, we have certain qualified pension plans with obligations which exceed the value of the plans' assets. Without sustained growth in the pension investments over time to increase the value of the plans' assets, and depending upon the other factors as listed above, we could be required to fund the plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could have a material impact on our cash flows, credit rating and cost of borrowing, financial position or results of operations.We rely on a small number of suppliers to obtain the packaging we need to operate our business. The inability to obtain materials could unfavorably affect our ability to produce our products.    We purchase certain types of packaging materials including aluminum, glass and paperboard from a small number of suppliers. Consolidation of the packaging materials suppliers has reduced local supply alternatives and increased risks of supply disruptions. The inability of any of these suppliers to meet our production requirements without sufficient time to develop an alternative source could have a material adverse effect on our business.Termination of one or more manufacturer/distribution agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business.    We manufacture and/or distribute products of other beverage companies through various joint ventures, licensing, distribution or other arrangements. The loss of one or more of these arrangements, as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the business and financial results of one or more reporting segments. For example, Miller Brewing Company (“Miller”) has notified us of its intent to terminate the license agreement between Miller and us in Canada, which could have an adverse impact on our Canadian volumes.Changes in tax, environmental or other regulations or failure to comply with existing licensing, trade and other regulations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.    Our business is highly regulated by federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations in various countries regarding such matters as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, labeling, advertising, promotion and marketing practices, relationships with distributors, environmental matters, smoking bans at on-premise locations and other matters. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent re-evaluation, varying interpretations and political debate and inquiries from government regulators charged with their enforcement. Examples of this are the recently announced increase in beer excise tax rates of over 20% in Québec and a 50% 14Table of Contentsincrease to the statutory corporate income tax rate in Serbia. Failure to comply with existing laws and regulations or changes in these laws and regulations or in tax, environmental, excise tax levels imposed or any other laws or regulations could result in the loss, revocation or suspension of our licenses, permits or approvals and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, uncertainties exist with respect to the interpretation of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of future taxable income. Given the wide range of international business relationships and the long-term nature and complexity of existing contractual agreements, differences arising between the actual results and assumptions made, or future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. Finally, advocates of prohibition and other severe restrictions on the marketing and sales of alcohol are becoming increasingly organized on a global basis, seeking to impose regulations to curtail substantially the consumption of alcohol, including beer, in developed and developing markets. To the extent such views gain traction in national regulations where we do or plan to do business, they could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations.Our consolidated financial statements are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, most significantly the Canadian dollar, British Pound and our Central European operating currencies such as, but not limited to, Euro, Czech Koruna, Croatian Kuna, Serbian Dinar, New Romanian Leu and Bulgarian Lev.    We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenues and pay expenses in different currencies, most significantly in Canada and in the U.K and throughout Central Europe. Because our financial statements are presented in U.S. Dollars ("USD"), we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses into USD. Increases and decreases in the value of the USD will affect, perhaps adversely, the value of these items in our financial statements, even if their local currency value has not changed. To the extent that we fail to adequately manage these risks, including if our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in foreign currency rates, our results of operations may be materially and adversely impacted.Our operations face significant exposure to changes in commodity prices, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results.    We use a large volume of agricultural and other raw materials to produce our products, including barley, barley malt, hops, corn, other various starches, water and packaging materials, including aluminum, cardboard and other paper products. We also use a significant amount of diesel fuel and electricity in our operations. The supply and price of these raw materials and commodities can be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including market demand, global geopolitical events (especially as to their impact on crude oil prices and the resulting impact on diesel fuel prices), frosts, droughts and other weather conditions, economic factors affecting growth decisions, inflation, plant diseases and theft. To the extent any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of ingredients or packaging or our hedging arrangements do not effectively or completely hedge changes in commodity price risks, our results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted.The success of our business relies heavily on brand image, reputation, product quality and protection of intellectual property.    It is important that we maintain and increase the image and reputation of our existing products. Concerns about product quality, even when unsubstantiated, could be harmful to our image and reputation of our products. Deterioration to our brand equity may be difficult to combat or reverse and could have a material effect on our business and financial results. In addition, because our brands carry family names, personal activities by certain members of the Molson or Coors families that harm their public image or reputation could have an adverse effect on our brands. Further, the success of our Company is dependent on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, patents, domain names, trade secrets and know-how.Due to a high concentration of unionized workers in Canada, the United Kingdom, and at MillerCoors in the U.S., we could be significantly affected by labor strikes, work stoppages or other employee-related issues.    Approximately 60%, 35% and 25% of our Canadian, MillerCoors and U.K. workforces, respectively, are represented by trade unions. Stringent labor laws in the U.K. expose us to a greater risk of loss should we experience labor disruptions in that market. A labor strike, work stoppage or other employee-related issue could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Changes to the regulation of the distribution systems for our products could adversely impact our business.    In our U.S. market, there is a three-tier distribution system that has historically applied to the distribution of products now sold through MillerCoors (including our non-U.S. products). That system is increasingly subject to the legal challenges on the basis that it allegedly interferes with interstate commerce. To the extent that such challenges are successful and require changes to the three-tier system, such changes could have a materially adverse impact on MillerCoors and, consequently, MCBC. Further, in certain Canadian provinces, our products are distributed through joint venture arrangements that are mandated and regulated by provincial government regulators. If provincial regulation should change, the costs to adjust our distribution methods could have a material adverse impact on our business.Changes in various supply chain standards or agreements could adversely impact our business.    Our business includes various joint venture and industry agreements which standardize parts of the supply chain system. An example includes our warehousing and customer delivery systems organized under joint venture agreements with other brewers. Any negative change in these agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business.15Table of ContentsBecause of our reliance on third-party service providers for certain administrative functions, we could experience a disruption to our business.    We rely exclusively on information services providers worldwide for our information technology functions including network, help desk, hardware and software configuration. We also have outsourced a significant portion of work associated with our finance and accounting, human resources and other information technology functions to a third-party service provider. If one of these service providers was to fail and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could be unable to properly administer our outsourced functions. Additionally, our internal and outsourced systems may also be the target of outside parties attempting to breach our security, which, if successful, could expose us to the loss of key business information and disruption of our operations.We may incur impairments of the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets.    In connection with various business combinations, we have allocated material amounts of the related purchase prices to goodwill and other intangible assets that are considered to have indefinite useful lives. These assets are tested for impairment at least annually, using estimates and assumptions affected by factors such as economic and industry conditions and changes in operating performance. Potential resulting charges could be material and could adversely impact our results of operations. Our most recent impairment analysis indicated that the fair value of our U.K. and Canada reporting units were close to failing step one of the goodwill impairment test. The fair value of the U.K. reporting unit and the Canada reporting unit were estimated at approximately 7% and 15% in excess of their carrying values, respectively. In addition, the fair value of the Molson core brands was estimated at approximately 14% in excess of its carrying value. The reporting units and Molson core brands are therefore at risk of a future impairment in the event of significant unfavorable changes in the forecasted cash flows, terminal growth rates, market transaction multiples and/or weighted-average cost of capital utilized in the discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, we have identified risks to our Central Europe reporting unit due to weak economic conditions within the regions in which we operate, as well as risks related to the possible termination of our license agreement with Miller in Canada.Climate change and water availability may negatively affect our business.    There is concern that a gradual increase in global average temperatures could cause significant changes in weather patterns around the globe and an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters. While warmer weather has historically been associated with increased sales of beer, changing weather patterns could result in decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions which may limit availability or increase the cost of key agricultural commodities, such as hops, barley and other cereal grains, which are important ingredients for our products. Increased frequency or duration of extreme weather conditions could also impair production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain or impact demand for our products. In addition, public expectations for reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased energy, transportation and raw material costs and may require us to make additional investments in facilities and equipment. As a result, the effects of climate change could have a long-term, material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. There are also water availability risks. Climate change may cause water scarcity and a deterioration of water quality in areas where we maintain brewing operations. The competition for water among domestic, agricultural and manufacturing users is increasing in some of our brewing communities. Even where water is widely available, water purification and waste treatment infrastructure limitations could increase costs or constrain our operations.Failure to successfully identify, complete or integrate attractive acquisitions and joint ventures into our existing operations could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.    We have made a number of acquisitions and entered into several joint ventures. In order to compete in the consolidating global brewing industry, we anticipate that we may, from time to time, in the future acquire additional businesses or enter into additional joint ventures that we believe would provide a strategic fit with our business. Potential issues associated with acquisitions and joint ventures could include, among other things: our ability to identify attractive acquisitions and joint ventures; our ability to offer potential acquisition targets and joint ventures competitive transaction terms; our ability to realize the benefits or cost savings that we expect to realize as a result of the acquisition or joint venture; diversion of management's attention; our ability to successfully integrate our businesses with the business of the acquired company; motivating, recruiting and retaining key employees; conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures among our company and the acquired company; consolidating and streamlining sales, marketing and corporate operations; potential exposure to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business; and managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating our operations following completion of an acquisition or entry into a joint venture. If an acquisition or joint venture is not successfully completed or integrated into our existing operations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.Risks associated with operating our joint ventures may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.    We have entered into several joint ventures, including our MillerCoors joint venture in the United States and Puerto Rico with SABMiller. We may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. Our joint venture partners may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with our goals or with the goals of the joint venture. In addition, we compete against our joint venture partners in certain of our markets. Disagreements with our business partners may impede our ability to maximize the benefits of our partnerships and adversely affect our results of operations. Our joint venture arrangements may require us, among other matters, to pay certain costs or to make certain capital investments or 16Table of Contentsto seek our joint venture partner's consent to take certain actions. In addition, our joint venture partners may be unable or unwilling to meet their economic or other obligations under the operative documents, and we may be required to either fulfill those obligations alone to ensure the ongoing success of a joint venture or to dissolve and liquidate a joint venture. For example, during 2012, we decided to terminate our joint venture in China due to the failure of our joint venture partner to meet its obligations. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom would harm our business.    The loss of the services and expertise of any key employee could harm our business. Our future success depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel on a timely basis. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate any new management personnel that we hire within our organization in order to achieve our operating objectives, and changes in other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business. Our operations outside of North America and the U.K. expose us to additional risks which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.    We expect our operations outside of North America and the U.K. to become more significant to our operating results as we continue to further expand internationally. In certain of these markets, we have limited operating experience and may not succeed. In addition to risks described elsewhere in this section, our operations in these markets expose us to additional risks, including: changes in local political, economic, social and labor conditions; restrictions on foreign ownership and investments; repatriation of cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; import and export requirements; currency exchange rate fluctuations; a less developed and less certain legal and regulatory environment, which among other things can create uncertainty with regard to liability issues; longer payment cycles, increased credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences.Loss of a major brewery or other key facility, due to unforeseen or catastrophic events or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our business.    Our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted by physical risks such as earthquakes, hurricanes, other natural disasters or catastrophic events that damage or destroy one of our breweries or key facilities. Additionally, certain catastrophes are not covered by our general insurance policies, which could result in significant unrecoverable losses.Impacts of the Acquisition on our financial position.    As a result of the Acquisition, the already significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements increased. Such amounts are subject to impairment assessments based upon future adverse changes in our business or prospects. In addition, we incurred a significant amount of additional indebtedness in connection with the Acquisition. After giving effect to our $1.9 billion senior notes offering, borrowings under the new credit and term loan agreements in connection with the Acquisition and the issuance of the Convertible Note to the Seller, we have outstanding $4,668 million of indebtedness as of December 29, 2012, and the ability to incur up to an additional €150 million, $550 million and $400 million of indebtedness under our revolving credit facilities. We may incur significantly more indebtedness in the future. As a result of the debt that we incurred in connection with the Acquisition, we have suspended share repurchases until our credit metrics are closer to pre-Acquisition levels, and there can be no assurance that our credit ratings will remain at an investment grade level or that they will improve. Additionally, any deterioration of our current credit rating from an investment grade level could result in less than favorable terms of future debt issuances, which may be necessary to support the ongoing needs of the business, fund future capital investments or acquisitions or refinance terms of our debt obligations currently outstanding. We also intend to use cash from operations to reduce our debt level, which will reduce funds available for other purposes and may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions. In addition, our indebtedness also subjects us to financial and operating covenants, which may limit our flexibility in responding to our business needs. If we are not able to maintain compliance with stated financial ratios or if we breach any of the other covenants in any debt agreement, we could be in default under such agreement. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies.Risks Specific to the Canada SegmentWe may experience continued price discounting in Canada.    The continuation, acceleration or the increase of price discounting, in Ontario, Québec, Alberta or other provinces, could adversely impact our business.In the event that we are required to move away from the industry standard returnable bottle we use today, we may incur unexpected losses.    Along with ABI and other brewers in Canada, we currently use an industry standard returnable bottle which represents more than 40% of total volume sales in Canada. Changes to the Industry Standard Bottle Agreement could impact our use of the industry standard returnable bottle. If we cease to use the industry standard returnable bottle, our current bottle inventory and a portion of our bottle packaging equipment could become obsolete and could result in a material write-off of these assets.17Table of ContentsRisks Specific to the United States Segment and MillerCoorsWe do not fully control the operations and administration of MillerCoors, which represents our interests in the U.S. beer business.    We jointly control MillerCoors with SABMiller, and hold a 42% economic interest. MillerCoors management is responsible for the day to day operations of the business and therefore, we do not have full control over the activities of MillerCoors. Our results of operations are dependent upon the efforts of MillerCoors management, our ability to govern the joint venture effectively with SABMiller and factors beyond our control that may affect SABMiller. Additionally, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to MillerCoors are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.We may incur unexpected costs or face other business issues from MillerCoors due to challenges associated with integrating operations, technologies and other aspects of the operations.    The MillerCoors management team continues to focus on fully integrating ours and SABMiller's U.S. operations, technologies and services, as well as the distribution networks including the resolution of disputes arising from the consolidation of distributors arising from the MillerCoors joint venture. The failure of MillerCoors to successfully integrate the two operations could adversely affect our financial results or prospects.MillerCoors is highly dependent on independent distributors in the United States to sell its products, with no assurance that these distributors will effectively sell its and our products.    MillerCoors sells all of its products and our non-U.S. products in the United States to distributors for resale to retail outlets and the regulatory environment of many states makes it very difficult to change distributors. Consequently, if MillerCoors is not allowed or is unable to replace unproductive or inefficient distributors, its business, financial position and results of operation may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.Risks Specific to the Central Europe SegmentWe may not recognize the benefits of the Acquisition.    We may not realize the expected benefits of the Acquisition because of integration difficulties and other challenges. The success of the Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize all or some of the anticipated synergies and other benefits from integrating MCCE's business with our existing businesses. The integration process may be complex, costly and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operations of MCCE's business include, among others:•failure to implement our business plan for the combined business;•unanticipated issues in integrating manufacturing, logistics, information, communications and other systems;•possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and compensation structures betweenMCCE's structure and our structure;•failure to retain key customers and suppliers;•unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations;•failure to retain key employees;•operating risks inherent in MCCE's business and our business;•unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities; •unfamiliarity with operating in Central Europe.We may not be able to maintain the levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that each of Molson Coors and MCCE had achieved or might achieve separately. In addition, we may not accomplish the integration of MCCE's business smoothly, successfully or within the anticipated costs or timeframe. Moreover, the markets in which MCCE operates may not experience the growth rates expected and any further economic downturn affecting Europe could negatively impact MCCE's business. These markets are in differing stages of development and may experience more volatility than expected or face more operating risks than in the more mature markets in which Molson Coors has historically operated. If we experience difficulties with the integration process or if the MCCE business or the markets in which it operates deteriorate, the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and other synergies of the Acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In such case, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted.We face risks associated with the Sale and Purchase Agreement ("SPA") in connection with the Acquisition.    In connection with the Acquisition, we assumed substantially all the liabilities of MCCE that were not satisfied on or prior to the closing date. There may be liabilities that we underestimated or did not discover in the course of performing our due diligence investigation of MCCE. Under the SPA and a management warranty deed (the "Management Warranty Deed"), the Seller has agreed to provide us with a limited set of representations and warranties. Our sole remedy from the Seller for any breach of those representations and warranties is an action for indemnification, not to exceed €100 million under the SPA and €50 million under the Management Warranty Deed. Damages resulting from a breach of a representation or warranty could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.18Table of ContentsEconomic trends and intense competition in certain Central European markets could unfavorably impact our profitability.    Our Central European businesses have been and may continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic and political conditions generally. During 2012, real gross domestic product declined in most of the major Central European markets in which we operate. Additionally, we face intense competition in certain of our Central European markets, particularly with respect to price, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. In particular, the on-going focus by large competitors in Central Europe to drive increased market share through aggressive pricing strategies could adversely affect our sales and results of operations.Risks Specific to the United Kingdom SegmentSales volume trends in the United Kingdom brewing industry reflect movement from on-premise channels to off-premise channels, a trend which unfavorably impacts our profitability.    In recent years, beer volume sales in the U.K. have been shifting from pubs and restaurants (on-premise) to retail stores (off-premise), for the industry in general. A ban on smoking in pubs and restaurants across the whole of the U.K. enacted in 2007 accelerated this trend. Margins on sales to off-premise customers tend to be lower than margins on sales to on-premise customers, and, as a result, continuation or acceleration of these trends would further adversely impact our profitability.Consolidation of pubs and growth in the size of pub chains in the United Kingdom could unfavorably impact pricing.    The trend toward consolidation of pubs, away from independent pub and club operations, is continuing in the United Kingdom. These larger entities have stronger price negotiating power, and therefore continuation of this trend could impact our ability to obtain favorable pricing in the on-premise channel (due to the spillover effect of reduced negotiating leverage) and could reduce our revenues and profit margins. In addition, these larger customers continue to move to purchasing directly more of the products that, in the past, we have provided as part of our factored business. Further consolidation could contribute to an adverse financial impact.In the event that a significant pub chain were to go bankrupt, or experience similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted.    We extend credit to pub chains in the U.K., and in some cases the amounts are significant. The continuing challenging economic environment in the U.K. has caused business at on-premise outlets to slow since late 2008, and some pub chains may face increasing financial difficulty if economic conditions do not improve. In the event that a pub chain were to be unable to pay amounts owed to us as a result of bankruptcy or similar financial difficulties, our business could be adversely impacted. We depend exclusively on one logistics provider for the distribution of our products in the United Kingdom.    Tradeteam handles all of the physical distribution for us in the U.K., except where a different distribution system is requested by a customer. If Tradeteam were unable to continue distribution of our products and we were unable to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner, we could experience significant disruptions in our business that could have an adverse financial impact.Risks Specific to the Molson Coors International SegmentAn inability to expand our operations in emerging markets could adversely affect our growth prospects.    Our ability to grow our MCI segment in emerging markets depends on social, economic and political conditions in those markets and on our ability to create effective product distribution networks and consumer brand awareness in new markets. Due to product price, local competition and cultural differences, there is no assurance that our products will be accepted in any particular emerging market. If we are unable to expand our businesses in emerging markets, our growth prospects could be adversely affected.In addition, compliance with complex foreign laws and regulations, and U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in some international jurisdictions. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and a materially negative impact on our brands and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, there can be no assurance that our employees, business partners or agents will not violate our policies.Risks Specific to Our Discontinued OperationsIndemnities provided to the purchaser of 83% of the Cervejarias Kaiser Brasil S.A. ("Kaiser") business in Brazil could result in future cash outflows and statement of operations charges.    In 2006, we sold our 83% ownership interest in Kaiser to FEMSA Cerveza S.A. de C.V. ("FEMSA"). The terms of the sale agreement require us to indemnify FEMSA for exposures related to certain tax, civil and labor contingencies and certain purchased tax credits. The ultimate resolution of these claims is not under our control. These indemnity obligations are recorded as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, 19Table of Contentshowever, we could incur future statement of operations charges as facts further develop resulting in changes to our estimates or changes in our assessment of probability of loss on these items as well as due to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Due to the uncertainty involved in the ultimate outcome and timing of these contingencies, significant adjustments to the carrying value of our indemnity liabilities and corresponding statement of operations charges/credits could result in the future.ITEM 1B