ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS  

        You should carefully consider the risks described below before investing in our securities. The risks described
below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions, geopolitical events, competition, technological
obsolescence, labor relations, and international operations. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business operations, financial
condition, and liquidity.


 Risks Relating to Our Business  

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Current and future conditions in the global economy and global capital markets, and cyclical industry conditions, may adversely affect our results of operations,
financial condition, and cash flows.  

        Our business and operating results have been and will continue to be affected by worldwide economic conditions. As a result of slowing global economic growth, the
credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our customers may experience deterioration
of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. As a result, existing or potential customers may delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may not be able to
fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. Further, our vendors may be experiencing similar conditions, which may impact their ability to fulfill
their obligations to us. If the global economic slowdown continues for significant periods or deteriorates significantly, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be
materially adversely affected. 

        Additionally,
we are heavily dependent on the end market industry dynamics for our products, and our operating results can be adversely affected by cyclical and reduced demand patterns
of these markets. For example, the automotive industry, which accounted for approximately 30% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, is experiencing a significant downturn described below. The
telecommunications industry, which accounted for approximately 23% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, has historically experienced periods of robust capital expenditure followed by periods of
retrenchment and consolidation, which reflects current market conditions. The aerospace and defense industry, which accounted for 5% of our net sales in fiscal 2008, has similarly undergone
significant fluctuations in demand, depending on worldwide economic and political conditions. These periodic downturns in our customers' industries can significantly reduce demand for certain of our
products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 


        <FONT
SIZE=2>We are dependent on the automotive industry which is experiencing significant declines in the current economic environment.  

        Approximately 30% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 were to customers in the automotive industry. Automotive manufacturers globally are experiencing significant
declines in sales of vehicles from the current economic downturn, credit conditions, and volatile fuel costs. Additionally, the automotive industry is dominated by large manufacturers that can exert
significant price pressure on their suppliers. As a supplier of automotive electronics products, our sales of these products and our profitability have been and could continue to be negatively
affected by changes in the operations, products, business models, part-sourcing requirements, financial condition, and market share of automotive manufacturers, as well as potential
consolidations among automotive manufacturers. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>We are dependent on the telecommunications, computer, and consumer electronics industries.  

        Approximately 23% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 came from sales to the telecommunications industry. Demand for these products is subject to rapid technological
change and has been affected by declines in consumer and business spending due to global economic conditions. Additionally, these markets are dominated by several large manufacturers that can exert
significant price pressure on their 

11




 


suppliers.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete successfully in the telecommunications industry, and our failure to do so would materially impair our results of
operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 

        Approximately
9% of our net sales for fiscal 2008 came from sales to the computer and consumer electronics industries. Demand for our computer and consumer electronics products depends
primarily on underlying business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products, which has been affected by reduced spending due to global economic conditions. The amount of
this demand and therefore our sales and profitability will be affected by a variety of factors, including the rate of technological change, degree of consumer acceptance of new products, and general
economic conditions. We cannot assure you that existing levels of business and consumer demand for new computer and consumer electronics products will not decrease. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Disruption in credit markets and volatility in equity markets may affect our ability to access sufficient funding.  


        The global equity markets have been volatile and credit markets globally have been disrupted, which has reduced the availability of investment capital and credit.
If these conditions continue or worsen, we may be unable to access adequate funding to operate and grow our business. Our inability to access adequate funding or to generate sufficient cash from
operations may require us to reconsider certain projects and capital expenditures. The extent of any impact will depend on several factors, including our operating cash flows, the duration of tight
credit conditions and volatile equity markets, our credit ratings and credit capacity, the cost of financing, and other general economic and business conditions. 


        <FONT
SIZE=2>We encounter competition in substantially all areas of the electronic components industry.  

        We operate in highly competitive markets for electronic components. The competition we experience across product lines from other companies ranges in size from
large, diversified manufacturers to small, highly specialized manufacturers. The electronic components industry has continued to become increasingly concentrated and globalized in recent years, and
our major competitors have significant financial resources and technological capabilities. A number of these competitors compete with us primarily on price, and in some instances may enjoy lower
production costs for certain products. We cannot assure you that additional competitors will not enter our markets, or that we will be able to compete successfully against existing or new competitors. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>We are dependent on market acceptance of new product introductions and product innovations for continued revenue growth.  

        The markets in which we operate are subject to rapid technological change. Our long-term operating results depend substantially upon our ability to
continually develop, introduce, and market new and innovative products, to modify existing products, to respond to technological change, and to customize certain products to meet customer
requirements. There are numerous risks inherent in this process, including the risks that we will be unable to anticipate the direction of technological change or that we will be unable to develop and
market new products and applications in a timely fashion to satisfy customer demands. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Like other suppliers to the electronics industry, we are subject to continuing pressure to lower our prices.  

        Over the past several years we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, pressure each year to lower our prices. In recent years, we have
experienced price erosion averaging from 1% to 3%. In order to maintain our margins, we must continue to reduce our costs by similar amounts. We cannot assure you that continuing pressures to reduce
our prices will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 

12




 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>We may be negatively affected as our customers and vendors continue to consolidate.  


        Many of the industries to which we sell our products, as well as many of the industries from which we buy materials, have become increasingly concentrated in
recent years, including the automotive, telecommunications, computer, and aerospace and defense industries. Consolidation of customers may lead to decreased product purchases from us. In addition, as
our customers buy in larger volumes, their volume buying power has increased, and they have been able to negotiate more favorable pricing and find alternative sources from which to purchase. Our
materials suppliers similarly have increased their ability to negotiate favorable pricing. These trends may adversely affect the profit margins on our products, particularly for commodity components. 


        <FONT
SIZE=2>Our results are sensitive to raw material availability, quality, and cost.  

        We are a large buyer of resin, copper, gold, brass, steel, chemicals and additives, and zinc. Many of these raw materials are produced in a limited number of
regions around the world or are only available from a limited number of suppliers. In addition, the price of many of these raw materials, including copper and gold, has increased in recent years and
continues to fluctuate. Over the last three years, we have only been able to partially offset these increases through higher selling prices. Our results of operations, financial condition, and cash
flows may be materially and adversely affected if we have difficulty obtaining these raw materials, the quality of available raw materials deteriorates, or there are continued significant price
increases for these raw materials. Any of these events could have a substantial impact on the price we pay for raw materials and, to the extent we cannot compensate for cost increases through
productivity improvements or price increases to our customers, our margins may decline, materially affecting our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results.  

        We are exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Approximately 54% of our net sales for fiscal
2008 were invoiced in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and we expect revenue from non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our net revenue. Therefore, when
the U.S. dollar strengthens in relation to the currencies of the countries where we sell our products, such as the Euro, our U.S. dollar reported revenue and income will decrease. Changes in the
relative values of currencies may have a significant effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We manage this risk in part by entering into financial derivative
contracts. In addition to the risk of non-performance by the counterparty to the contracts, our efforts to manage these risks might not be successful. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>The life cycles of our products can be very short.  

        The life cycles of certain of our products can be very short relative to the development cycles. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing
may not result in material revenue, and, from time to time, we may need to write off excess or obsolete inventory or equipment. If we were to incur significant engineering expenses and investments in
inventory and equipment that we were not able to recover and we were not able to compensate for those expenses, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows would be materially and
adversely affected. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Divestitures of some of our businesses or product lines may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.  

        During fiscal 2008, we have sold or discontinued businesses and product lines with annualized net sales of approximately $1 billion, and we continue to
evaluate the performance of all of our businesses and may continue to sell businesses or product lines. Any divestitures may result in significant write-offs, including those related to
goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including
difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel, the 

13




 


diversion
of management's attention from other business concerns, the disruption of our business, and the potential loss of key employees. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in
addressing these or any other significant risks encountered. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>A decline in the market value of our pension plans' investment portfolios could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows.  

        Concerns about deterioration in the global economy, together with the current credit crisis, have caused significant volatility in interest rates and equity
prices, which could decrease the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios. A decrease in the value of our pension plans' investment portfolios could have an adverse affect on our results of
operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>We may use components and products manufactured by third parties.  

        We may rely on third-party suppliers for the components used in our products, and we may rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture certain of our
assemblies and finished products. Our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected if such third parties lack sufficient quality control or if there are
significant changes in their financial or business condition. We also have third-party arrangements for the manufacture of certain products, parts, and components. If these third parties fail to
deliver quality products, parts, and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our orders, sales and profits could decline, and our commercial reputation could
be damaged. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Our future success is substantially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified technical, managerial, marketing, finance, and administrative
personnel.  

        Our success depends upon our continued ability to hire and retain key employees at our operations around the world. We depend on highly skilled technical
personnel to design, manufacture, and support our wide range of electronic components. Additionally, we rely upon experienced managerial, marketing, and support personnel to manage our business
effectively and to successfully promote our wide range of products. Any difficulties in obtaining or retaining the necessary global management, technical, human resource, and financial skills to
achieve our objectives may have adverse affects on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>If we fail to remediate the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes, concerns about the
potential for material errors in our financial reporting could cause the value of our securities to be adversely affected.  

        Subsequent to the filing of our Combined Financial Statements for fiscal 2006, 2005, and 2004 in the initial filing of our registration statement on
Form 10 with the SEC, we determined that our Combined Financial Statements contained certain errors. The errors primarily resulted from the process of carving out certain income tax accounts
from Tyco International's consolidated financial statements and related information. We substantially relied upon the processes at Tyco International to prepare our carve-out accounts for
income taxes. We have determined that certain of those tax
processes utilized by Tyco International in determining certain carve-out amounts for income taxes did not operate at a sufficient level of precision relative to our materiality for us to
ensure that the carve-out accounts were materially correct. Concurrently, we determined that we did not have sufficient control processes in place to ensure that the information provided
by Tyco International was complete and accurate and concluded that the absence of these control processes was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to
accounting for income taxes. 

        Subsequent
to separation, in our periodic reports we continued to disclose a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting relating to accounting for income taxes.
As of September 26, 2008, management has concluded that recently enhanced resources and processes related to this previously identified material weakness have not been operating for a
sufficient period of time 

14




 


and,
accordingly, has further concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of September 26, 2008. 

        Unless
we remediate the material weakness, concerns about the potential for material errors in our financial reporting could adversely affect the value of our securities. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>If any of our operations are found not to comply with applicable antitrust or competition laws, our business may suffer.  


        Our operations are subject to applicable antitrust and competition laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, in particular the United States and
the European Union. These laws prohibit, among other things, anticompetitive agreements and practices. If any of our commercial, including distribution, agreements and practices with respect to the
electrical components or other markets is found to violate or infringe such laws, we may be subject to civil and other penalties. We also may be subject to third party claims for damages. Further,
agreements that infringe these antitrust and competition laws may be void and unenforceable, in whole or in part, or require modification in order to be lawful and enforceable. If we are unable to
enforce any of our commercial agreements, whether at all or in material part, our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>We are subject to the risks of political, economic, and military instability in countries outside the United States.  

        Non-U.S. markets account for a substantial portion of our business. During fiscal 2008, non-U.S. markets constituted over 69% of our net
sales. We employ more than 82% of
our workforce outside the United States. Our customers are located throughout the world and we have many manufacturing, administrative, and sales facilities outside the United States. Because of our
extensive non-U.S. operations, we are exposed to risks that could negatively affect sales or profitability, including: 



•tariffs, trade barriers, and trade disputes;   
•regulations related to customs and import/export matters;   
•longer payment cycles;   
•tax issues, such as tax law changes, examinations by taxing authorities, variations in tax laws from country to country as
compared to the United States, and difficulties in repatriating in a tax-efficient manner cash generated or held abroad;   
•challenges in collecting accounts receivable;   
•employment regulations and local labor conditions;   
•difficulties protecting intellectual property;   
•instability in economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, and actual or anticipated military or
political conflicts; and   
•the impact of each of the foregoing on our outsourcing and procurement arrangements. 


        Many
of our products that are manufactured outside of the United States are manufactured in Asia. In particular, we have sizeable operations in China, including manufacturing operations,
and in fiscal 2008, 12% of our net sales were made to customers in China. The legal system in China is still developing and is subject to change. Accordingly, our operations and orders for products in
China could be adversely affected by changes to or interpretation of Chinese law. 

15




 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws.  


        The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from
making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in
many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs
and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by
our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, and cash flows. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities, litigation, and violations.  

        We are subject to numerous federal, state, local, and non-U.S. environmental protection and health and safety laws governing, among other
things: 



•the generation, storage, use, and transportation of hazardous materials;   
•emissions or discharges of substances into the environment;   
•investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites; and  
•the health and safety of our employees. 


        We
may not have been, or we may not at all times be, in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws. If we violate these laws, we could be fined, criminally charged, or
otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Environmental laws outside of the United States are becoming more stringent, resulting in increased costs and compliance burdens. 

        Certain
environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the costs of investigation, removal, or remediation of hazardous substances or
materials at their properties or at properties at which they have disposed of hazardous substances. Liability for investigative, removal, and remedial costs under certain federal and state laws are
retroactive, strict, and joint and several. In addition to cleanup actions brought by governmental authorities, private parties could bring personal injury or other claims due to the presence of, or
exposure to, hazardous substances. We have received notification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and similar state environmental agencies that conditions at a number of formerly owned
sites where we and others have disposed of hazardous substances require investigation, cleanup, and other possible remedial action and may require that we reimburse the government or otherwise pay for
the costs of investigation and remediation and for natural resource damage claims from such sites. 

        While
we plan for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current or future
environmental protection and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect
our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows or that we will not be subject to additional environmental claims for personal injury or cleanup in the future based on our past,
present, or future business activities. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Our products are subject to various requirements related to chemical usage, hazardous material content, and recycling.  

        The EU, China, and other jurisdictions in which our products are sold have enacted or are proposing to enact laws addressing environmental and other impacts from
product disposal, use of 

16




 


hazardous
materials in products, use of chemicals in manufacturing, recycling of products at the end of their useful life, and other related matters. These laws include the EU Restriction on Hazardous
Substances, End of Life Vehicle and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directives, the EU REACH (chemical registration) Directive, the China law on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution
by Electronic Information Products, and various other laws. These laws prohibit the use of certain substances in the manufacture of our products and directly and indirectly impose a variety of
requirements for modification of manufacturing processes, registration, chemical testing, labeling, and other matters. We cannot predict the extent to which these laws will proliferate in other
jurisdictions or expand to address other materials or other aspects of our product manufacturing and sale. These laws could make manufacture or sale of our products more expensive or impossible and
could limit our ability to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the proprietary nature of our technology.  

        The electronics industry is characterized by litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Within this industry, companies have become more
aggressive in asserting and defending patent claims against competitors. There can be no assurance that we will not be subject to future litigation alleging intellectual property rights infringement
or that we will not pursue litigation to protect our property rights. Depending on the size and importance of the patent or trademark in question, an unfavorable outcome regarding one of these matters
may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 

        <FONT
SIZE=2>We are a defendant to a variety of litigation in the course of our business that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial
condition, and cash flows.  

        In the ordinary course of business, we are a defendant in litigation, including litigation alleging the infringement of intellectual property rights,
anti-competitive behavior, and product liability. In certain circumstances, patent infringement and antitrust laws permit successful plaintiffs to recover treble damages. The defense of
these lawsuits may divert our management's attention, and we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become
subject to injunctions or other equitable remedies, that could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 


        <FONT
SIZE=2>Covenants in our debt instruments may adversely affect us.  

        Our bank credit agreement contains financial and other covenants, such as a limit on the ratio of debt to earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, and limits on subsidiary debt and incurrence of liens. Our outstanding indentures contain customary covenants including limits on incurrence of liens, sale and lease-back
transactions, and our ability to consolidate, merge, and sell assets. 

        Although
we believe none of these covenants are presently restrictive to our operations, our ability to meet the financial covenant can be affected by events beyond our control, and we
cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with the covenant. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit agreement or indentures. Upon the occurrence
of certain defaults under our credit facility and indentures, the lenders or trustee could elect to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could
terminate commitments to extend further credit under our bank credit facility. If the lenders or trustee accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot provide assurance that we will have
sufficient assets to repay our credit facility and our other affected indebtedness. Acceleration of any debt obligation under any of our material debt instruments may permit the holders or trustee of
our other material debt to accelerate payment of debt obligations to the creditors thereunder. 

17






<A
NAME="page_cg41301_1_18"> 



































  
        The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that may require us to offer to buy back the notes for a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued
and unpaid interest, to the repurchase date, upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the indentures). We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available to repurchase
the notes in that event, which could result in a default under the notes. Any future debt that we incur may contain covenants regarding repurchases in the event of a change of control triggering
event. 

         Future acquisitions may not be successful.  


        We will continue to investigate the acquisition of strategic businesses or product lines with the potential to strengthen our market
position or enhance our existing product offering. We cannot assure you, however, that we will identify or successfully complete transactions with suitable acquisition candidates in the future. Nor
can we assure you that completed acquisitions will be successful. If an acquired business fails to operate as anticipated or cannot be successfully integrated with our existing business, our results
of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 

         Future acquisitions could require us to issue additional debt or equity.  


        If we were to undertake a substantial acquisition for cash, the acquisition would likely need to be financed in part through additional
financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, or other arrangements. This acquisition financing might decrease our ratio of earnings to fixed
charges and adversely affect other leverage measures. We cannot assure you that the necessary acquisition financing would be available to us on acceptable terms if and when required. If we were to
undertake an acquisition by issuing equity
securities or equity-linked securities, the issued securities may have a dilutive effect on the interests of the holders of our common shares. 

 Risks Relating to Our Separation from Tyco International  

         We are responsible for a portion of Tyco International's contingent and other corporate liabilities, including those relating to shareholder
litigation.  

        In connection with our separation from Tyco International on June 29, 2007, we, Tyco International, and Covidien Ltd.
("Covidien") entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement which governs the relationships among us, Tyco International, and Covidien subsequent to the separation and provided for the
allocation among us, Tyco International, and Covidien of Tyco International's assets, liabilities, and obligations attributable to periods prior to the separation. Under the Separation and
Distribution Agreement, subject to certain exceptions contained in the Tax Sharing Agreement among the parties, we, Tyco International, and Covidien have agreed to assume and be responsible for 31%,
27%, and 42%, respectively, of certain of Tyco International's contingent and other corporate liabilities. All costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate
liabilities are shared equally among the parties. These contingent and other corporate liabilities primarily relate to consolidated securities litigation, any actions with respect to the separation
plan or the distribution brought by any third party and tax liabilities for periods prior to and including the date of separation of June 29, 2007. For more information on the contingent tax
liabilities, see "We share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the distribution date." Contingent and
other corporate liabilities do not include liabilities that are specifically related to one of the three separated companies, which were allocated 100% to the relevant company. 

        If
any party responsible for such liabilities were to default in its payment, when due, of any of these assumed obligations, each non-defaulting party would be required to
pay equally with any other non-defaulting party the amounts in default. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our
agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations related to such contingent and other corporate liabilities, including associated costs and expenses. 

18




 

        Prior
to the announcement by Tyco International of the planned separation of Tyco Electronics and Covidien in January 2006, Tyco International and certain of its former directors and
officers were named as defendants in over 40 purported securities class action lawsuits, most of which were part of a class action settlement of 32 lawsuits reached in 2007, for which we were
responsible for 31%. Holders of approximately 4% of the shares owned by class members opted out of the class action settlement and a number of these individuals and entities have filed actions
separately against Tyco International and/or Tyco International, Covidien, and us. Two additional securities cases were settled in fiscal 2008. Several securities cases remain outstanding, including
several cases asserting claims arising under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"). As a part of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, any existing or potential liabilities
related to the securities actions were allocated among Tyco International, Covidien, and us. We are responsible for 31% of potential liabilities that may arise upon the resolution of the remaining
pending litigation. If the unresolved securities proceedings were to be determined adversely to Tyco International, our share of any additional potential losses under the terms of the Separation and
Distribution Agreement, which are not presently estimable, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 

        Tyco
International has the right to control the defense and settlement of outstanding securities litigation, subject to certain limitations. The timing, nature, and amount of any
settlements of outstanding litigation may not be in our best interests. Furthermore, in the event of any future settlements, we may have limited notice before we would be required to pay our portion
of the settlement amount. Moreover, Tyco International stipulated, pursuant to a court order, that we, Tyco International, and Covidien each will be primarily liable for a portion of the obligations
arising from the Tyco International shareholder litigation. The stipulation also provides that if any party defaults on its obligations, the other parties are jointly and severally liable for the
defaulting party's obligations. 

         We share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International's and Covidien's income tax liabilities for tax periods prior to and including the
distribution date.  

        Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we share responsibility for certain of our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's income tax
liabilities based on a sharing formula for periods prior to and including June 29, 2007. More specifically, we, Tyco International, and Covidien share 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of U.S.
income tax liabilities that arise from adjustments made by tax authorities to our, Tyco International's, and Covidien's U.S. income tax returns, certain income tax liabilities arising from adjustments
made by tax authorities to intercompany transactions or similar adjustments, and certain taxes attributable to internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation. All costs and
expenses associated with the management of these shared tax liabilities will be shared equally among the parties. We are responsible for all of our own taxes that are not shared pursuant to the Tax
Sharing Agreement's sharing formula. In addition, Tyco International and Covidien are responsible for their tax liabilities that are not subject to the Tax Sharing Agreement's sharing formula. 

        All
the tax liabilities that are associated with our businesses, including liabilities that arose prior to our separation from Tyco International, have become our tax liabilities.
Although we have agreed to share certain of these tax liabilities with Tyco International and Covidien pursuant to the Tax Sharing
Agreement, we remain primarily liable for all of these liabilities. If Tyco International and Covidien default on their obligations to us under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we would be liable for the
entire amount of these liabilities. 

        If
any party to the Tax Sharing Agreement were to default in its obligation to another party to pay its share of the distribution taxes that arise as a result of no party's fault, each
non-defaulting party would be required to pay, equally with any other non-defaulting party, the amounts in default. In addition, if another party to the Tax Sharing Agreement
that is responsible for all or a portion of an income tax liability were to default in its payment of such liability to a taxing authority, we could be legally liable under applicable tax law for such
liabilities and required to make additional tax payments. Accordingly, under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of our, Tyco
International's, and Covidien's tax liabilities. 

19




 

        Our,
Tyco International's, and Covidien's income tax returns are examined periodically by various tax authorities. In connection with such examinations, tax authorities, including the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), have raised issues and proposed tax adjustments. We are reviewing and contesting certain of the proposed tax adjustments. Amounts related to these tax
adjustments and other tax contingencies that we have assessed under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109," have been reflected as a liability in the Consolidated and Combined Financial
Statements. The calculation of our tax liabilities includes estimates for uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations across multiple global jurisdictions where we conduct our
operations. We recognize liabilities for tax as well as related interest for issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes
and related interest will be due. These tax liabilities and related interest are reflected net of the impact of related tax loss carryforwards. These estimates may change due to changing facts and
circumstances; however, due to the complexity of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a settlement that differs from our current estimate of the tax liabilities and related
interest. 

        Under
the Tax Sharing Agreement, Tyco International has the right to administer, control, and settle all U.S. income tax audits for periods prior to and including June 29, 2007.
The timing, nature, and amount of any settlement agreed to by Tyco International may not be in our best interests. Moreover, the other parties to the Tax Sharing Agreement will be able to remove Tyco
International as the controlling party only under limited circumstances, including a change of control or bankruptcy of Tyco International, or by a majority vote of the parties on or after the second
anniversary of the distribution. All other tax audits will be administered, controlled, and settled by the party that would be responsible for paying the tax. 

         If the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal
income tax purposes, we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.  

        Tyco International received private letter rulings from the IRS regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution
of our common shares and Covidien common shares to the Tyco International shareholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of our
common shares and the Covidien common shares, will qualify as tax-free under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"). The private letter rulings also
provided that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation would qualify for favorable treatment under the Code. In addition to obtaining the private letter rulings, Tyco
International obtained opinions from the law firm of McDermott Will & Emery LLP confirming the tax-free status of the distribution and certain internal transactions. The
private letter rulings and the opinions relied on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us, Tyco International, and Covidien regarding the past and future
conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the private letter rulings and the opinions, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions
should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distributions
should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, Tyco
International would recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common shares and Covidien common shares distributed to Tyco International shareholders on the
distribution date over Tyco International's tax basis in such common shares, but such gain, if recognized, generally would not be subject to U.S. federal income tax. However, we would incur
significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation should be treated as taxable
transactions. 

20




 

        In
addition, under the terms of the Tax Sharing Agreement, in the event the distribution or the internal transactions were determined to be taxable and such determination was the result
of actions taken after the distribution by us, Tyco International, or Covidien, the party responsible for such failure would be responsible for all taxes imposed on us, Tyco International, or Covidien
as a result thereof. If such determination is not the result of actions taken after the distribution by us, Tyco International, or Covidien, then we, Tyco International, or Covidien would be
responsible for 31%, 27%, and 42%, respectively, of any taxes imposed on us, Tyco International, or Covidien as a result of such determination. Such tax amounts could be significant. In the event that
any party to the Tax Sharing Agreement defaults in its obligation to pay distribution taxes to another party that arise as a result of no party's fault, each non-defaulting party would be
responsible for an equal amount of the defaulting party's obligation to make a payment to another party in respect of such other party's taxes. 


        We might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of restrictions relating to U.S. federal income tax
requirements for tax-free distributions.  

        Our ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted in order to preserve for U.S. federal income
tax purposes the tax-free nature of the distribution by Tyco International. Similar limitations and restrictions apply to Tyco International and Covidien. The distribution may result in
corporate level taxable gain to Tyco International under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our common shares, Tyco International's common shares, or Covidien's
common shares are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. For this purpose, any acquisitions or issuances of Tyco International's common
shares within two years before the distribution, and any acquisitions or issuances of our common shares, Tyco International's common shares, or Covidien's common shares within two years after the
distribution, generally are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we, Tyco International or Covidien may be able to rebut that presumption. We are not aware of any such acquisitions or
issuances of Tyco International's common shares within the two years before the distribution. If an acquisition or issuance of our common shares, Tyco International's common shares, or Covidien's
common shares triggers the application of Section 355(e) of the Code, Tyco International would recognize taxable gain as described above, but such gain generally would not be subject to U.S.
federal income tax. However, certain subsidiaries of Tyco International or Covidien or subsidiaries of ours would incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities as a result of the application
of Section 355(e) of the Code. 

        Under
the Tax Sharing Agreement, there are restrictions on our ability to take actions that could cause the distribution or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of
the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, including entering into, approving, or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than 35% of our
common shares, a redemption of equity securities, a sale or other disposition of a substantial portion of our assets, an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or
more persons would acquire 35% or more of our common shares, or engaging in certain internal transactions. These restrictions apply for the two-year period after the distribution, unless
we obtain the consent of the other parties or we obtain a private letter ruling from the IRS or an unqualified opinion of a nationally recognized law firm that such action will not cause the
distribution or the internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the separation to fail to qualify as tax-favored transactions, and such letter ruling or opinion, as the case may
be, is acceptable to the parties. Tyco International and Covidien are subject to similar restrictions under the Tax Sharing Agreement. Moreover, the Tax Sharing Agreement generally provides that a
party thereto is responsible for any taxes imposed on any other party thereto as a result of the failure of the distribution or certain internal transactions to qualify as a tax-favored
transaction under the Code if such failure is attributable to certain post-distribution actions taken by or in respect of the responsible party or its shareholders, regardless of whether
the actions occur more than two years after the distribution, the other parties consent to such actions or such party obtains a favorable letter ruling or opinion of tax counsel as described above.
For example, we would be responsible for a third party's 

21




 


acquisition
of us at a time and in a manner that would cause such failure. These restrictions may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our securityholders. 

 Risks Relating to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation  

         Legislation and negative publicity regarding Bermuda companies could increase our tax burden and adversely affect our results of operations,
financial condition, and cash flows.  



 Tax Legislation  



        We continue to assess the impact of various U.S. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties
between the United States and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our U.S. federal and state taxes. The U.S. Congress has in the past considered and is anticipated to
continue to consider legislation affecting the tax treatment of companies that have undertaken certain types of expatriation transactions or companies' use of or relocation to offshore jurisdictions,
including Bermuda. We continue to monitor such potential U.S. federal legislative proposals, as well as potential proposals relating to deductible payments from U.S. subsidiaries to foreign parents.
Tax legislation may be introduced, passed, or modified by the U.S. Congress in the future that would have material adverse effects on us if enacted. Such adverse effects could include substantially
reducing the tax benefits of our corporate structure, materially increasing our tax burden or otherwise materially adversely affecting our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 



 Negative Publicity  



        There is continuing negative publicity regarding, and criticism of, companies' use of or relocation to offshore jurisdictions,
including Bermuda. As a Bermuda company, this negative publicity could harm our reputation and impair our ability to generate new business if companies or governmental agencies decline to do business
with us as a result of any perceived negative public image of Bermuda companies or the possibility of our customers receiving negative media attention from doing business with a Bermuda company. 



 Legislation Relating to Governmental Contracts  



        We expect the U.S. Congress to continue to consider implementation and/or expansion of policies that would restrict the federal and
state governments from contracting with entities that move their corporate locations abroad. We are unable to predict the likelihood that, or final form in which, any such proposed legislation might
become law, the nature of regulations that may be promulgated under any future legislative enactments, or the effect such enactments and increased regulatory scrutiny may have on our business. We are
unable to predict whether the final form of any potential legislation discussed above also would affect our indirect sales to the U.S. federal or state governments or the willingness of our
non-governmental customers to do business with us. As a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to assess the potential impact of any proposed legislation in this area and cannot
assure you that the impact will not be materially adverse to us. 

         Bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the United States and may afford less protection to holders of our securities.  


        We are organized under the laws of Bermuda. It may not be possible to enforce court judgments obtained in the United States against us
in Bermuda based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws. In addition, there is some uncertainty as to whether the courts of Bermuda would recognize or enforce
judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liabilities provisions of the U.S. federal or state securities laws or hear actions against us or those
persons based on those laws. We have been advised that the United States and Bermuda currently do not have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and
commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money 

22




 


rendered
by any U.S. federal or state court based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on U.S. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in Bermuda. 

        As
a Bermuda company, we are governed by the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, which differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to United States corporations and
shareholders, including differences relating to interested director and officer transactions, shareholder lawsuits, and indemnification. Likewise, the duties of directors and officers of a Bermuda
company generally are owed to the company only. Shareholders of Bermuda companies generally do not have a personal right of action against directors or officers of the company and may exercise such
rights of action on behalf of the company only in limited circumstances. Under Bermuda law, a company also may agree to indemnify directors and officers for any personal liability, not involving fraud
or dishonesty, incurred in relation to the company. Thus, holders of our securities may have more difficulty protecting their interests than would holders of securities of a corporation incorporated
in a jurisdiction of the United States. 

 Risks Relating to Our Common Shares  

        The market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely.  

        The market price of our common shares may fluctuate widely, depending upon many factors, including: 



•our quarterly or annual earnings;   
•changes in quarterly or annual sales or earnings guidance that we may provide;   
•actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;   
•extreme volatility in financial markets and market fluctuations caused by the global economic downturn and deterioration
of credit conditions;   
•changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates;   
•changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations, or principles;   
•announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; and   
•the operating and stock price performance of comparable companies. 


         Certain provisions of our bye-laws may reduce the likelihood of any unsolicited acquisition proposal or potential change of control that
our shareholders might consider favorable.  

        Our bye-laws contain provisions that could be considered "anti-takeover" provisions because they make it harder
for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors. Under these bye-law provisions: 



•shareholders may not remove directors without cause, change the size of the board of directors or, except in limited
circumstances, fill vacancies on the board of directors;   
•shareholders may act only at shareholder meetings and not by written consent;   
•shareholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at
shareholder meetings;   
•restrictions will apply to any merger or other business combination (including an amalgamation under Bermuda law) between
our company and any holder of 15% or more of our issued voting shares who became such without the prior approval of our board of directors; and   
•our board of directors may without shareholder approval issue preferred shares and determine their rights and terms,
including voting rights, or adopt a shareholder rights plan. 



        These
provisions, which may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of 80% of our issued voting shares, could have the effect of discouraging an unsolicited acquisition
proposal or delaying, deferring, or preventing a change of control transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be considered favorably by our shareholders. 

23






<A
NAME="page_ci41301_1_24"> 



































 



<A
NAME="ci41301_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
 
  ITEM 1B