ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSFollowing the spin-off of our publishing businesses in June 2015, the size and concentration of our business has changed. An investment in our common stock involves risks and uncertainties and prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors before investing in our securities. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities.Changes in economic conditions in the U.S. markets we serve may depress demand for our products and servicesWe generate a significant portion of our revenues in our Media Segment from the sale of advertising at our television stations. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. As a result, our operating results depend on the relative strength of the economy in our principal television and digital markets as well as the strength or weakness of regional and national economic factors. A decline in economic conditions in the U.S. could have a significant adverse impact on our businesses and could significantly impact all key advertising revenue categories.  In addition, declining economic conditions could adversely affect employment conditions and consumer sentiment, reducing demand for the product offerings of CareerBuilder and Cars.com, which could impair our ability to grow our Digital revenues, which are increasingly important to our overall revenue mix since the separation was completed. Competition from alternative forms of media may impair our ability to grow or maintain revenue levels in core and new businessesAdvertising produces the predominant share of our revenues from our Media Segment, with our stations’ affiliated desktop, mobile and tablet advertising revenues being an important component. Technology, particularly new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the Internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies used in the entertainment industry, continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. These technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume news and entertainment, including through so-called “cutting the cord” and other consumption strategies. These innovations may affect our ability to generate television audience, which may make our television stations less attractive to both household audiences and advertisers. This competition may make it difficult for us to grow or maintain our media revenues, which we believe will challenge us to expand the contributions of our online and other digital businesses. The value of our assets or operations may be diminished if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attackOur information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently and effectively. We rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, news and advertising content, digital products, order entry, fulfillment and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, late or missed publications, and loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results to be impacted.Furthermore, attempts to compromise information technology systems occur regularly across many industries and sectors, and we may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control. We invest in security resources and technology to protect our data and business processes against risk of data security breaches and cyber attack, but the techniques used to attempt attacks are constantly changing. A breach or successful attack could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. We maintain cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may be insufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems.As has historically been the case in the broadcast sector, loss of or changes in affiliation agreements or retransmission consent agreements could adversely affect operating results for our Media Segment’s stations Most of our stations have network affiliation agreements with the major broadcast television networks (ABC, CBS, NBC, and Fox). These television networks produce and distribute programming in exchange for each of our stations' commitment to air the programming at specified times and for commercial announcement time during the programming. In most cases, we also make cash payments to the networks. 12Each of our affiliation agreements has a stated expiration date. If renewed, our network affiliation agreements may be renewed on terms that are less favorable to us. The non-renewal or termination of any of our network affiliation agreements would prevent us from being able to carry programming of the affiliate network. This loss of programming would require us to obtain replacement programming, which may involve higher costs and/or which may not be as attractive to our audiences, resulting in reduced revenues. In recent years, the networks have streamed their programming on the Internet and other distribution platforms, in some cases within a short period of the original network programming broadcast on local television stations, including those we own. An increase in the availability of network programming on alternative platforms that either bypass or provide less favorable terms to local stations - such as cable channels, the Internet and other distribution vehicles - may dilute the exclusivity and value of network programming originally broadcast by the local stations and could adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our stations.Our retransmission consent agreements with major cable, satellite and telecommunications service providers permit them to retransmit our stations’ signals to their subscribers in exchange for the payment of compensation to us. As is the case in the broadcast television industry generally, if we are unable to renegotiate these agreements on favorable terms, or at all, the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.There could be significant liability if the spin-off of the publishing businesses is determined to be a taxable transaction We received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the requirements for tax-free treatment under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code were satisfied. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from TEGNA and Gannett regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not satisfied, TEGNA and its stockholders may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the Internal Revenue Service could determine on audit that the separation is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings were incorrect or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion, or for other reasons, including as a result of certain significant changes in the share ownership of TEGNA or Gannett after the separation. If the separation is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, TEGNA and its stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities.  Gannett or we may fail to perform under various temporary transaction agreements that were executed as part of the separation or we may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when certain of the transaction agreements expireIn connection with the separation, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and also entered into various other agreements, including a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement and an employee matters agreement. The separation and distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement and the employee matters agreement determined the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and includes certain indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. The transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a limited period of time after the separation. We will rely on Gannett to satisfy its performance obligations under these agreements. If Gannett is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses. If we do not have in place our own systems and services, or if we do not have agreements with other providers of these services once certain transaction agreements expire or terminate, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. Volatility in the U.S. credit markets could significantly impact our ability to obtain new financing to fund our operations and strategic initiatives or to refinance our existing debt at reasonable rates as it maturesAt December 31, 2015, we had approximately $4.2 billion in debt and approximately $658 million of undrawn additional borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility that expires in 2020. This debt matures at various times during the years 2016-2027. While our cash flow is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts when due, if operating results deteriorate significantly, a portion of these maturities may need to be refinanced. Access to the capital markets for longer-term financing is unpredictable, and volatile credit markets could make it harder for us to obtain debt financings generally.Changes in the regulatory environment could encumber or impede our efforts to improve operating results or the value of assetsOur media and digital operations are subject to government regulation. Changing regulations, particularly FCC Regulations which affect our television stations (including changes to our shared services and similar agreements), may result in increased costs, reduced valuations for certain broadcasting properties or other impacts, all of which may adversely impact our future profitability. All of our television stations are required to hold television broadcasting licenses from the FCC; when granted, these licenses are generally granted for a period of eight years. Under certain circumstances, the FCC is not required to renew any license and could decline to renew either our current license applications that are pending or those submitted in the future. 13Our strategic acquisitions, investments and partnerships could pose various risks, increase our leverage and may significantly impact our ability to expand our overall profitabilityAcquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flow and could strain our human resources. We may be unable to successfully implement effective cost controls, achieve expected synergies or increase revenues as a result of an acquisition. Acquisitions may result in us assuming unexpected liabilities and in management diverting its attention from the operation of our business. Disclosures we make regarding past operating results of acquired entities and our pro forma results are based on financial information provided to us by acquired entities, which has not been reviewed by our auditors or subject to our internal controls. Acquisitions may result in us having greater exposure to the industry risks of the businesses underlying the acquisition. Strategic investments and partnerships with other companies expose us to the risk that we may be unable to control the operations of our investee or partnership, which could decrease the amount of benefits we realize from a particular relationship. We are exposed to the risk that our partners in strategic investments and infrastructure may encounter financial difficulties which could disrupt investee or partnership activities, or impair assets acquired, which would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity. In addition, we may be unable to obtain financing necessary to complete acquisitions on attractive terms or at all. The failure to obtain regulatory approvals may prevent us from completing or realizing the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Furthermore, acquisitions may subject us to new or different regulations which could have an adverse effect on our operations.The value of our existing intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating resultsGoodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $6.98 billion at December 31, 2015, representing approximately 82% of our total assets. These assets are subject to annual impairment testing and more frequent testing upon the occurrence of certain events or significant changes in circumstance that indicate all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable. In which case a non-cash charge to earnings may be necessary, as occurred in 2013-2015 (see Notes 3 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements). We may subsequently experience market pressures which could cause future cash flows to decline below our current expectations, or volatile equity markets could negatively impact market factors used in the impairment analysis, including earnings multiples, discount rates, and long-term growth rates. Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity, although such charges would not affect our cash flow. ITEM 1B