ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors before investing in our securities. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we did not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities.Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve in the U.S., U.K. and other international markets we serve may depress demand for our products and servicesOur operating results depend on the relative strength of the economy in our principal television, publishing and digital markets as well as the strength or weakness of national and regional economic factors. Generally soft economic conditions and uneven recoveries in the U.S. and U.K. have had a significant adverse impact on the company’s businesses, particularly publishing. If conditions remain challenging or worsen in the U.S. or U.K. economy, all key advertising revenue categories could be significantly impacted.Competition from alternative forms of media may impair our ability to grow or maintain revenue levels in core and new businessesAdvertising produces the predominant share of our broadcasting, publishing and digital revenues, with affiliated web site, mobile and tablet revenues being an important component. With the continued development of alternative forms of media, particularly electronic media including those based on the Internet, our businesses may face increased competition. Alternative media sources may also affect our ability to generate circulation revenues and our television audience. In addition, new and emerging technologies such as subscription streaming media services and mobile video are increasing competition for household audiences and advertisers.  Services such as Aereo and FilmOn X provide their subscribers with streaming content from television stations, over the Internet.  Litigation is ongoing over the claims of certain broadcasters and networks that such services, which are offered without broadcasters’ consent, violate copyright law.  The Supreme Court has agreed to hear an appeal of the Second Circuit’s decision affirming a district court decision to deny a preliminary injunction against Aereo.This competition may make it difficult for us to grow or maintain our print advertising, circulation and broadcasting revenues, which we believe will challenge us to expand the contributions of our online and other digital businesses.Continued volatility in the U.S. credit markets could significantly impact the company’s ability to obtain new financing to fund its operations and strategic initiatives or to refinance its existing debt at reasonable rates as it maturesAt the end of 2013, the company had approximately $3.7 billion in long-term debt and approximately $1.2 billion of additional borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.  This debt matures at various times during the years 2014-2027. While the company’s cash flow is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts when due, if operating results deteriorate significantly, a portion of these maturities may need to be refinanced. Access to the capital markets for longer term financing is unpredictable, and volatile credit markets could make it harder for us to obtain debt financings generally. Volatility in global financial markets directly affects the value of our pension plan assets and liabilitiesThe company’s three largest retirement plans, which account for more than 95% of total pension plan assets, were underfunded as of Dec. 29, 2013 by $456 million on a U.S. GAAP basis. Various factors, including future investment returns, discount rates and potential pension legislative changes, impact the timing and amount of pension contributions the company may be required to make in the future.  Foreign exchange variability could adversely affect our consolidated operating resultsWeakening of the British pound-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate could diminish Newsquest’s earnings contribution to consolidated results. Newsquest results for 2013 were translated to U.S. dollars at the average rate of 1.56. CareerBuilder, with expanding overseas operations, also has foreign exchange risk but to a significantly lesser degree.Changes in the regulatory environment could encumber or impede our efforts to improve operating results or the value of assetsOur broadcasting, publishing and digital operations are subject to government regulation. Changing regulations, particularly FCC Regulations which affect our television stations (including changes to our shared services and similar agreements), may result in increased costs, reduced valuations for certain broadcasting properties or other impacts, all of which may adversely impact our future profitability. For example, the FCC is expected to release an order determining that certain joint sales agreements between stations will be treated as attributable interests and seek comment about shared services agreements and local news agreements, including whether such arrangements should be attributable for purposes of the FCC’s ownership rules.  In addition, the FCC is seeking comment on rules governing a “repacking” of the broadcast spectrum which may require certain stations to move to different channels.  All of our television stations are required to possess television broadcasting licenses from the FCC; when granted, these licenses are generally granted for a period of eight years. Under certain circumstances the FCC is not required to renew any license and could decline to renew either our current license applications that are pending or those submitted in the future.20Our strategic acquisitions, investments and partnerships could pose various risks, increase our leverage and may significantly impact our ability to expand our overall profitabilityAcquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flow and could strain our human resources. We may not be able to successfully implement effective cost controls, achieve expected synergies or increase revenues as a result of any acquisition. Acquisitions may result in our assumption of unexpected liabilities and may result in the diversion of management’s attention from the operation of our legacy business. In addition, disclosures we make regarding past operating results of acquired entities and our pro forma results are based on financial information provided to us by acquired entities, which has not been reviewed by our auditors or subject to our internal controls. Acquisitions may also result in us having greater exposure to the industry risks of the businesses underlying the acquisition.  For example, our recent acquisition of Belo escalated our dependency on network affiliation agreements and beneficial retransmission agreements.  Strategic investments and partnerships with other companies expose us to the risk that we may not be able to control the operations of our investee or partnership, which could decrease the amount of benefits we realize from a particular relationship. The company is also exposed to the risk that its partners in strategic investments and infrastructure may encounter financial difficulties which could lead to disruption of investee or partnership activities, or impairment of assets acquired, which would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity.The value of our existing intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating resultsGoodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $5.27 billion as of Dec. 29, 2013, representing approximately 57% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary, as occurred in 2013 and 2012 (see Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity, although such charges would not affect our cash flow. Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact our business practices and operating resultsFrom time to time, we are parties to litigation and regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” contained elsewhere in this report for a description of certain of our pending litigation and regulatory matters and other proceedings with governmental authorities.The value of our assets or operations may be diminished if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attackOur information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently and effectively.  We rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, news and advertising content, digital products, order entry, fulfillment and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, late or missed publications, and loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer.  Furthermore, attempts to compromise information technology systems occur regularly across many industries and sectors, and we may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control.  We invest in security resources and technology to protect our data and business processes against risk of data security breaches and cyber attack, but the techniques used to attempt attacks are constantly changing.  A breach or successful attack could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation.  We maintain cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems.ITEM 1B