ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors before investing in our securities. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities.Changes in economic conditions in the U.S., U.K. and other international markets we serve may depress demand for our products and servicesOur operating results depend on the relative strength of the economy in our principal television, publishing and digital markets as well as the strength or weakness of regional and national economic factors. A decline in economic conditions in the U.S. and U.K. could have a significant adverse impact on our businesses, particularly publishing, and could significantly impact all key advertising revenue categories.Competition from alternative forms of media may impair our ability to grow or maintain revenue levels in core and new businessesAdvertising produces the predominant share of our broadcasting, publishing and digital revenues, with affiliated web site, mobile and tablet revenues being an important component. With the continued development of alternative forms of media, particularly electronic media including those based on the Internet, our businesses may face increased competition. Alternative media sources may affect our ability to generate circulation revenues and our television audience. New and emerging technologies such as subscription streaming media services and mobile video are increasing competition for household audiences and advertisers. This competition may make it difficult for us to grow or maintain our print advertising, circulation and broadcasting revenues, which we believe will challenge us to expand the contributions of our online and other digital businesses.The proposed separation of our Publishing business from our Broadcasting and Digital businesses is subject to various risks and uncertainties, and may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at allOn Aug. 5, 2014, we announced our plan to create two publicly traded companies: one exclusively focused on our Broadcasting and Digital businesses, and the other on our Publishing business. The separation, which is expected to be completed mid-2015, is subject to certain customary conditions, including final approval of our Board of Directors. In addition, unanticipated developments, including possible delays in obtaining various tax opinions or rulings, regulatory approvals or clearances and uncertainty of the financial markets, could delay or prevent the completion of the proposed separation or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are different from those currently expected. As a result, we are unable to assure that we will complete the proposed separation on the terms or the timeline that we announced, if at all. The proposed separation may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefitsExecuting the proposed separation will require us to incur costs as well as time and attention from our senior management and key employees, which could distract them from operating our business, disrupt operations, and result in the loss of business opportunities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating key employees during the pendency of the separation and following its completion, which could harm our businesses. Even if the proposed separation is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the separation and the separation may in fact adversely affect our business. As independent, publicly traded companies, both companies will be smaller, less diversified companies with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions and competitive pressures, which could materially and adversely affect their respective businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Separating the businesses may also eliminate or reduce synergies that existed before the separation, such as the operation of the digital sites and applications for our Publishing and Broadcasting properties as part of the integrated Gannett digital platform, which could have an adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and liquidity of each business. There can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly traded companies following the completion of the proposed separation will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred.The value of our assets or operations may be diminished if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attackOur information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently and effectively. We rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, news and advertising content, digital products, order entry, fulfillment and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, late or missed publications, and loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results to be impacted.  Furthermore, attempts to compromise information technology systems occur regularly across many industries and sectors, and we may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control. We invest in security resources and technology to protect our data and business processes against risk of data security breaches and cyber attack, but the techniques used to attempt attacks are constantly changing. A breach or successful attack could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. We maintain cyber risk insurance, but this insurance may be insufficient to cover all of our losses from any future breaches of our systems.20Volatility in the U.S. credit markets could significantly impact our ability to obtain new financing to fund our operations and strategic initiatives or to refinance our existing debt at reasonable rates as it maturesAt the end of 2014, we had approximately $4.5 billion in long-term debt and approximately $625 million of additional borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facilities. This debt matures at various times during the years 2015-2027. While our cash flow is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts when due, if operating results deteriorate significantly, a portion of these maturities may need to be refinanced. Access to the capital markets for longer term financing is unpredictable, and volatile credit markets could make it harder for us to obtain debt financings generally.Volatility in global financial markets directly affects the value of our pension plan assets and liabilitiesOur three largest retirement plans, which account for 97% of total pension plan assets, were underfunded as of Dec. 28, 2014, by $728 million on a U.S. GAAP basis. Changes in interest rates and future investment returns can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans.  Foreign exchange variability could adversely affect our consolidated operating resultsWeakening of the British pound-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate could diminish Newsquest’s earnings contribution to consolidated results. Newsquest results for 2014 were translated to U.S. dollars at the average rate of 1.65. If the price of the British pound against the U.S. dollar had been 10% more or less than the actual price, operating income would have increased or decreased approximately 1% in 2014. CareerBuilder, with expanding overseas operations, also has foreign exchange risk but to a significantly lesser degree.Changes in the regulatory environment could encumber or impede our efforts to improve operating results or the value of assetsOur broadcasting, publishing and digital operations are subject to government regulation. Changing regulations, particularly FCC Regulations which affect our television stations (including changes to our shared services and similar agreements), may result in increased costs, reduced valuations for certain broadcasting properties or other impacts, all of which may adversely impact our future profitability. All of our television stations are required to hold television broadcasting licenses from the FCC; when granted, these licenses are generally granted for a period of eight years. Under certain circumstances the FCC is not required to renew any license and could decline to renew either our current license applications that are pending or those submitted in the future. Our strategic acquisitions, investments and partnerships could pose various risks, increase our leverage and may significantly impact our ability to expand our overall profitabilityAcquisitions involve inherent risks, such as increasing leverage and debt service requirements and combining company cultures and facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flow and could strain our human resources. We may be unable to successfully implement effective cost controls, achieve expected synergies or increase revenues as a result of an acquisition. Acquisitions may result in us assuming unexpected liabilities and in management diverting its attention from the operation of our business. Disclosures we make regarding past operating results of acquired entities and our pro forma results are based on financial information provided to us by acquired entities, which has not been reviewed by our auditors or subject to our internal controls. Acquisitions may result in us having greater exposure to the industry risks of the businesses underlying the acquisition. Strategic investments and partnerships with other companies expose us to the risk that we may be unable to control the operations of our investee or partnership, which could decrease the amount of benefits we realize from a particular relationship. We are exposed to the risk that our partners in strategic investments and infrastructure may encounter financial difficulties which could disrupt investee or partnership activities, or impair assets acquired, which would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity. In addition, we may be unable to obtain financing necessary to complete acquisitions on attractive terms or at all. The failure to obtain regulatory approvals may prevent us from completing or realizing the anticipated benefits of acquisitions. Furthermore, acquisitions may subject us to new or different regulations which could have an adverse effect on our operations.The value of our existing intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating resultsGoodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $7.74 billion at Dec. 28, 2014, representing approximately 69% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a non-cash charge to earnings may be necessary, as occurred in 2012-2014 (see Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity, although such charges would not affect our cash flow.Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact our business practices and operating resultsFrom time to time, we are parties to litigation and regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” contained elsewhere in this report for a description of certain of our pending litigation and regulatory matters and other proceedings with governmental authorities.ITEM 1B