ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS




In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K,
prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors before investing in our
securities. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we
do not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our
business and the trading price of our securities.



Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve in the U.S. and the UK may depress
demand for our products and services



Our operating results depend on the relative strength of the economy in our principal publishing,
digital and television markets as well as the strength or weakness of national and regional
economic factors. Generally soft economic conditions and uneven recoveries in the U.S. and U.K.
have had a significant adverse impact on the company’s businesses, particularly publishing. If
conditions remain challenging or worsen in the U.S. or U.K. economy, all key advertising revenue
categories could be significantly impacted.



Competition from alternative forms of media may impair our ability to grow or maintain revenue
levels in core and new businesses



Advertising produces the predominant share of our publishing, broadcasting and affiliated web site
revenues as well as digital segment revenues. With the continued development of alternative forms
of media, particularly electronic media including those based on the Internet, our businesses may
face increased competition. Alternative media sources may also affect our ability to generate
circulation revenues and television audience. This competition may make it difficult for us to grow
or maintain our broadcasting, print advertising and circulation revenues, which we believe will
challenge us to expand the contributions of our online and other digital businesses.



A decline in the company’s credit ratings and continued volatility in the U.S. credit markets could
significantly impact the company’s ability to obtain new financing to fund its operations and
strategic initiatives or to refinance its existing debt at reasonable rates as it matures



At the end of 2010, the company had approximately $2.35 billion in long-term debt, of which $221
million was in the form of borrowings under bank credit facilities, $180 million is a term loan and
the balance was in the form of unsecured notes. Approximately $613 million of this debt matures
beginning in mid-2011 with remaining maturities in 2012-2018. While the company’s cash flow is
expected to be sufficient to pay amounts when due, if operating results deteriorate significantly,
a significant portion of these maturities may need to be refinanced. Access to the capital markets
may at times be affected by our credit ratings and conditions in the economy. A decline in our
corporate credit rating could make future borrowings more expensive, and volatile credit markets
could make it harder for us to obtain debt financings generally. However, the company did access
the capital markets in September 2010 with $500 million of unsecured financing. In September, the
company also amended its revolving credit agreements and extended the maturity date with the
majority of its
lenders from March 15, 2012 to September 30, 2014. Total commitments under the amended revolving
credit agreements are $1.63 billion through March 15, 2012 and total extended commitments from
March 15, 2012 to September 30, 2014 will be $1.14 billion. At the end of 2010, the company had
approximately $1.4 billion of additional borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities.



Volatility in global financial markets directly affects the value of our pension plan assets



While asset returns were strongly positive in 2010 and 2009, the company’s principal U.S.
retirement plan, the Gannett Retirement Plan, is underfunded by $346 million. Depending on various
factors, including future investment returns, discount rates and potential pension legislative
changes, the company may be required to make up this underfunding with contributions in future
years.



Foreign exchange variability could adversely affect our consolidated operating results



Weakening of the British pound-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate could diminish Newsquest’s earnings
contribution to consolidated results. Newsquest results for 2010 were translated to U.S. dollars at
the average rate of 1.55. CareerBuilder, with expanding overseas operations, also has foreign
exchange risk but to a significantly lesser degree.



Changes in the regulatory environment could encumber or impede our efforts to improve operating
results or value of assets



Our publishing and broadcasting operations are subject to government regulation. Changing
regulations, particularly FCC regulations which affect our television stations, may result in
increased costs and adversely impact our future profitability. For example, FCC regulations
required us to construct digital television stations in all of our television markets, despite the
fact that the new digital stations are unlikely to produce significant additional revenue. In
addition, our television stations are required to possess television broadcast licenses from the
FCC; when granted, these licenses are generally granted for a period of eight years. Under certain
circumstances the FCC is not required to renew any license and could decline to renew our license
applications that are currently pending in 2011.



The degree of success of our investment and acquisition strategy may significantly impact our
ability to expand overall profitability



We will continue efforts to identify and complete strategic investments, partnerships and business
acquisitions. These efforts may not prove successful. Strategic investments and partnerships with
other companies expose us to the risk that we may not be able to control the operations of our
investee or partnership, which could decrease the amount of benefits we reap from a particular
relationship. The company is also exposed to the risk that its partners in strategic investments
and infrastructure may encounter financial difficulties which could lead to disruption of investee
or partnership activities.



Acquisitions of other businesses may be difficult to integrate with our existing operations,
could require an inefficiently high amount of attention from our senior management, might require
us to incur additional debt or divert our capital from more profitable expenditures, and might
result in other unanticipated problems and liabilities.

 

24




Table of Contents



The value of our intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating results



Goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $3.4 billion as of Dec. 26, 2010,
representing approximately 49% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other
intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be
recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary, as occurred in the last three
years (see Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Any future evaluations
requiring an asset impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect
future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity, although such charges would not
affect our cash flow.



The collectability of accounts receivable under current soft economic conditions could deteriorate
to a greater extent than provided for in the company’s financial statements and in its projections
of future results



Generally soft economic conditions and uneven recoveries in the U.S. and U.K. have increased the
company’s exposure to losses resulting from the potential bankruptcy of its advertising customers.
The company’s accounts receivable are stated at net estimated realizable value and its allowance
for doubtful accounts has been determined based on several factors, including receivable agings,
significant individual credit risk accounts and historical experience. If such collectability
estimates prove inaccurate, adjustments to future operating results could occur.









    
    
    


    ITEM 1B