ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS



In addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form
10-K, prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors before investing
in our securities. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks
that we do not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect
our business and the trading price of our securities.


Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve in the U.S. and the U.K. may
further depress demand for our products and services


Our operating results depend on the relative strength of the economy in our principal
newspaper, digital  and television markets as well as the strength or weakness of national and regional
economic factors. Recessionary conditions in the U.S. and U.K. have had a significant adverse
impact on the company’s businesses. Continuing or a deepening recession in the U.S. or U.K. economy
could significantly affect all key advertising revenue categories.


Competition from alternative forms of media may impair our ability to grow or maintain revenue
levels in core and new businesses


Advertising produces the predominant share of our publishing, broadcasting and affiliated Web
site revenues as well as Digital segment revenues. With the continued development of alternative
forms of media, particularly those based on the Internet, our businesses face increased
competition. Alternative media sources also affect our ability to generate circulation revenues and
television audience. This competition could make it difficult for us to grow or maintain our
broadcasting, print advertising and circulation revenues, which we believe will challenge us to
expand the contributions of our online and other digital businesses.


Further declines in the company’s credit ratings and continued volatility in the U.S. credit
markets could significantly impact the company’s ability to obtain new financing to fund its
operations and strategic initiatives or to refinance its existing debt at reasonable rates as it
matures


At the end of 2008, the company had approximately $3.8 billion in long-term debt, of which
approximately $2.2 billion was in the form of borrowings under bank credit facilities and the
balance was in the form of unsecured public notes. This debt matures in part in 2009, 2011 and
2012. While the company’s cash flow permits us to lower the amount of this debt before it matures,
a significant portion of it may need to be refinanced. Access to the capital markets for
longer-term financing is currently restricted due to the unprecedented and ongoing turmoil in the
capital markets. At the end of 2008, the company had approximately $1.2 billion of additional
borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities, providing near-term liquidity to fund its
needs and to repay debt maturing in 2009 and beyond.


Volatility in U.S. and U.K. financial markets directly affects the value of our pension plan
assets


Because of volatility and sharp declines in global financial markets, the company’s pension
plan asset values declined significantly in 2008 and the company’s principal U.S. retirement plan,
the Gannett Retirement Plan, is underfunded. These 2008 investment losses will result in higher
pension costs in 2009. Depending on various factors, including future investment returns, discount
rates and potential pension legislative changes, the company may be required to make up this
underfunding with contributions in future years although no contributions are required in 2009.


Foreign exchange variability could adversely affect our consolidated operating results



Weakening of the British pound-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate could diminish Newsquest’s
earnings contribution to consolidated results. Newsquest results for 2008 were translated to U.S.
dollars at the average rate of 1.86. For the first 45 days of 2009, the average exchange rate was
approximately 1.45, or 26% lower than the comparable period in 2008. CareerBuilder, with expanding
oversees operations, also has foreign exchange risk but to a significantly lesser degree.


Changes in regulatory environment could encumber or impede our efforts to improve operating
results


Our publishing and broadcasting operations are subject to government regulation. Changing
regulations, particularly FCC regulations which affect our television stations, may result in
increased costs and adversely impact our future profitability. FCC regulations required us to
construct digital television stations in all of our television markets, despite the fact that the
new digital stations are unlikely to produce significant additional revenue. Congress established
June 12, 2009, as the date by which each television station will be required to return one of the
two channels currently assigned to it and operate as a digital facility exclusively. All of the
company’s stations have converted to digital television; however, we cannot predict how the
transition will affect our broadcast results. In addition, our television stations are required to
possess television broadcast licenses from the FCC; when granted, these licenses are generally
granted for a period of eight years. Under certain circumstances the FCC is not required to
renew any license and could decline to renew our license applications that are currently pending in
2009.


The degree of success of our investment and acquisition strategy may significantly impact our
ability to expand overall profitability


We intend to continue efforts to identify and complete strategic investments, partnerships and
business acquisitions. These efforts may not prove successful. Strategic investments and
partnerships with other companies expose us to the risk that we may not be able to control the
operations of our investee or partnership, which could decrease the amount of benefits we reap from
a particular relationship. The company is also exposed to the risk that its partners in strategic
investments and infrastructure may encounter financial difficulties which could lead to disruption
of investee or partnership activities.


Acquisitions of other businesses may be difficult to integrate with our existing operations,
could require an inefficiently high amount of attention from our senior management, might require
us to incur additional debt or divert our capital from more profitable expenditures, and might
result in other unanticipated problems and liabilities.

 

20




Table of Contents



The value of our intangible assets may become further impaired, depending upon future
operating results


Goodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $3.5 billion as of Dec. 28, 2008,
representing approximately 44% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other
intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be
recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary, as occurred in both 2007 and 2008
(see Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Any future evaluations requiring an
asset impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect future
reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity, although such charges would not affect our
operations or cash flow.


The collectability of accounts receivable under current adverse economic conditions could
deteriorate to a greater extent than provided for in the company’s financial statements and in its
projections of future results


Recessionary conditions in the U.S. and U.K. have increased the company’s exposure to losses
resulting from the potential bankruptcy of its advertising customers. The company’s accounts
receivable are stated at net estimated realizable value and its allowance for doubtful accounts has
been determined based on several factors, including receivable agings, significant individual
credit risk accounts and historical experience. If such collectability estimates prove inaccurate,
adjustments to future operating results could occur.





ITEM 1B