ITEM 1A.
     
    RISK FACTORS




In addition to the other information contained or
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K,
prospective investors should consider carefully the
following risk factors before investing in our
securities. The risks described below may not be the
only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not
yet perceive or that we currently believe are
immaterial may also adversely affect our business and
the trading price of our securities.



Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets
we serve in the U.S. and the UK may further depress
demand for our products and services



Our operating results depend on the relative strength
of the economy in our principal newspaper, digital and
television markets as well as the strength or weakness
of national and regional economic factors. Recessionary
conditions in the U.S. and U.K. have had a significant
adverse impact on the company’s businesses. Continuing
or a deepening recession in the U.S. or U.K. economy
could significantly affect all key advertising revenue
categories.



Competition from alternative forms of media may
impair our ability to grow or maintain revenue
levels in core and new businesses



Advertising produces the predominant share of our
publishing, broadcasting and affiliated web site
revenues as well as digital segment revenues. With the
continued development of alternative forms of media,
particularly those based on the Internet, our
businesses may face increased competition. Alternative
media sources may also affect our ability to generate
circulation revenues and television audience. This
competition may make it difficult for us to grow or
maintain our broadcasting, print advertising and
circulation revenues, which we believe will challenge
us to expand the contributions of our online and other
digital businesses.



Further declines in the company’s credit ratings and
continued volatility in the U.S. credit markets could
significantly impact the company’s ability to obtain
new financing to fund its operations and strategic
initiatives or to refinance its existing debt at
reasonable rates as it matures



At the end of 2009, the company had approximately $3.1
billion in long-term debt, of which approximately $1.6
billion was in the form of borrowings under bank credit
facilities and the balance was in the form of unsecured
notes. This debt matures in part beginning in 2011 with
remaining maturities in 2012-2017. While the company’s
cash flow is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts
when due, if operating results deteriorate
significantly, a significant portion of its maturities
may need to be refinanced. Access to the capital
markets may at times be affected by conditions in the
economy. However, the company did access the capital
markets in October 2009 with $500 million of unsecured
borrowings. At the end of 2009, the company had
approximately $1.35 billion of additional borrowing
capacity under its revolving credit facilities,
providing near-term liquidity to fund its needs and to
repay debt maturing through March 2012.



Volatility in U.S. and UK financial markets
directly affects the value of our pension plan
assets



Because of volatility in the global financial markets,
the company’s pension plan asset values declined
significantly in 2008. While asset returns were
strongly positive in 2009, the company’s principal U.S.
retirement plan, the Gannett Retirement Plan, is
underfunded by $437 million. Depending on various
factors, including future investment returns, discount
rates and potential pension legislative changes, the
company may be required to make up this underfunding
with contributions in future years although no
contributions are required until 2011.



Foreign exchange variability could adversely
affect our consolidated operating results



Weakening of the British pound-to-U.S. dollar exchange
rate could diminish Newsquest’s earnings contribution
to consolidated results. Newsquest results for 2009
were translated to U.S. dollars at the average rate of
1.56. For the first 45 days of 2010, the average
exchange rate was approximately 1.60, or 10% higher
than the comparable period in 2009. CareerBuilder, with
expanding overseas operations, also has foreign
exchange risk but to a significantly lesser degree.



Changes in regulatory environment could encumber or
impede our efforts to improve operating results



Our publishing and broadcasting operations are subject
to government regulation. Changing regulations,
particularly FCC regulations which affect our
television stations, may result in increased costs and
adversely impact our future profitability. For example,
FCC regulations required us to construct digital
television stations in all of our television markets,
despite the fact that the new digital stations are
unlikely to produce significant additional revenue. In
addition, our television stations are required to
possess television broadcast licenses from the FCC;
when granted, these licenses are generally granted for
a period of eight years. Under certain circumstances
the FCC is not required to renew any license and could
decline to renew our license applications that are
currently pending in 2010.



The degree of success of our investment and
acquisition strategy may significantly impact our
ability to expand overall profitability



We will continue efforts to identify and complete
strategic investments, partnerships and business
acquisitions. These efforts may not prove successful.
Strategic investments and partnerships with other
companies expose us to the risk that we may not be
able to control the operations of our investee or
partnership, which could decrease the amount of
benefits we reap from a particular relationship. The
company is also exposed to the risk that its partners
in strategic investments and infrastructure may
encounter financial difficulties which could lead to
disruption of investee or partnership activities.



Acquisitions of other businesses may be difficult
to integrate with our existing operations, could
require an inefficiently high amount of attention from
our senior management, might require us to incur
additional debt or divert our capital from more
profitable expenditures, and might result in other
unanticipated problems and liabilities.

 

22




Table of Contents



The value of our intangible assets may become further
impaired, depending upon future operating results



Goodwill and other intangible assets were
approximately $3.4 billion as of Dec. 27, 2009,
representing approximately 48% of our total assets. We
periodically evaluate our goodwill and other
intangible assets to determine whether all or a
portion of their carrying values may no longer be
recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be
necessary, as occurred in 2007, 2008 and 2009 (see
Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements). Any future evaluations requiring an asset
impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible
assets would adversely affect future reported results
of operations and shareholders’ equity, although such
charges would not affect our operations or cash flow.



The collectability of accounts receivable under
current difficult economic conditions could
deteriorate to a greater extent than provided for in
the company’s financial statements and in its
projections of future results



Recessionary conditions in the U.S. and U.K. have
increased the company’s exposure to losses resulting
from the potential bankruptcy of its advertising
customers. The company’s accounts receivable are stated
at net estimated realizable value and its allowance for
doubtful accounts has been determined based on several
factors, including receivable agings, significant
individual credit risk accounts and historical
experience. If such collectability estimates prove
inaccurate, adjustments to future operating results
could occur.









    
    
    


    ITEM 1B