ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSIn addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K, prospective investors should consider carefully the following risk factors before investing in our securities. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we did not yet perceive or that we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business and the trading price of our securities.Deterioration in economic conditions in the markets we serve in the U.S. and the U.K. may depress demand for our products and servicesOur operating results depend on the relative strength of the economy in our principal publishing, digital and television markets as well as the strength or weakness of national and regional economic factors. Generally soft economic conditions and uneven recoveries in the U.S. and U.K. have had a significant adverse impact on the company’s businesses, particularly publishing. If conditions remain challenging or worsen in the U.S. or U.K. economy, all key advertising revenue categories could be significantly impacted.Competition from alternative forms of media may impair our ability to grow or maintain revenue levels in core and new businessesAdvertising produces the predominant share of our publishing, digital, and broadcast revenues, with affiliated web site, mobile and tablet revenues being an important component. With the continued development of alternative forms of media, particularly electronic media including those based on the Internet, our businesses may face increased competition. Alternative media sources may also affect our ability to generate circulation revenues and our television audience. This competition may make it difficult for us to grow or maintain our print advertising, circulation and broadcasting revenues, which we believe will challenge us to expand the contributions of our online and other digital businesses.A decline in the company’s credit ratings and continued volatility in the U.S. credit markets could significantly impact the company’s ability to obtain new financing to fund its operations and strategic initiatives or to refinance its existing debt at reasonable rates as it maturesAt the end of 2012, the company had approximately $1.43 billion in long-term debt, of which $205 million was in the form of borrowings under bank credit agreements, and the balance was in the form of unsecured notes. This debt matures at various times during the years 2014-2018. While the company’s cash flow is expected to be sufficient to pay amounts when due, if operating results deteriorate significantly, a portion of these maturities may need to be refinanced. Access to the capital markets may at times be affected by our credit ratings and conditions in the economy. A decline in our corporate credit rating could make future borrowings more expensive, and volatile credit markets could make it harder for us to obtain debt financings generally.  At the end of 2012, the company had approximately $922 million of additional borrowing capacity under its revolving credit facilities. Volatility in global financial markets directly affects the value of our pension plan assets and liabilitiesThe company’s principal U.S. retirement plan, the Gannett Retirement Plan, was underfunded as of Dec. 30, 2012 by $594 million on a U.S. GAAP basis. Various factors, including future investment returns, discount rates and potential pension legislative changes, impact the timing and amount of pension contributions the company may be required to make in the future.  The company's funding target attainment percentage, as defined by the IRS and based on the 2012 annual update, is 95%.Foreign exchange variability could adversely affect our consolidated operating resultsWeakening of the British pound-to-U.S. dollar exchange rate could diminish Newsquest’s earnings contribution to consolidated results. Newsquest results for 2012 were translated to U.S. dollars at the average rate of 1.58. CareerBuilder, with expanding overseas operations, also has foreign exchange risk but to a significantly lesser degree.Changes in the regulatory environment could encumber or impede our efforts to improve operating results or value of assetsOur publishing, digital and broadcasting operations are subject to government regulation. Changing regulations, particularly FCC regulations which affect our television stations, may result in increased costs and adversely impact our future profitability. For example, FCC regulations required us to construct digital television stations in all of our television markets, despite the fact that the new digital stations did not produce significant additional revenue. In addition, our television stations are required to possess television broadcast licenses from the FCC; when granted, these licenses are generally granted for a period of eight years. Under certain circumstances the FCC is not required to renew any license and could decline to renew either our current license applications that are pending or those submitted in the future.The degree of success of our investment and acquisition strategy may significantly impact our ability to expand overall profitabilityWe will continue efforts to identify and complete strategic investments, partnerships and business acquisitions. These efforts may not prove successful. Strategic investments and partnerships with other companies expose us to the risk that we may not be able to control the operations of our investee or partnership, which could decrease the amount of benefits we reap from a particular relationship. The company is also exposed to the risk that its partners in strategic investments and infrastructure may encounter financial difficulties which could lead to disruption of investee or partnership activities, or impairment of assets acquired, which would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders' equity.Acquisitions of other businesses may be difficult to integrate with our existing operations, could require an inefficiently high amount of attention from our senior management, might require us to incur additional debt or divert our capital from more profitable expenditures, and might result in other unanticipated problems and liabilities. 24The value of our existing intangible assets may become impaired, depending upon future operating resultsGoodwill and other intangible assets were approximately $3.3 billion as of Dec. 30, 2012, representing approximately 52% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may no longer be recoverable, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary, as occurred in 2010 and 2012 (see Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Any future evaluations requiring an asset impairment charge for goodwill or other intangible assets would adversely affect future reported results of operations and shareholders’ equity, although such charges would not affect our cash flow.Adverse results from litigation or governmental investigations can impact our business practices and operating resultsFrom time to time, we are parties to litigation and regulatory, environmental and other proceedings with governmental authorities and administrative agencies. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits or investigations could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition as well as our ability to conduct our businesses as they are presently being conducted. See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” contained elsewhere in this report for a description of certain of our pending litigation and regulatory matters and other proceedings with governmental authorities.The value of our assets or operations may be diminished if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attackOur information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently and effectively.  We rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, news and advertising content, digital products, order entry, fulfillment and other business processes. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, late or missed publications, and loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer.  Furthermore, attempts to compromise information technology systems occur regularly, and we may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control.  We invest in security resources and technology to protect our data and business processes against risk of data security breaches and cyber attack, but the techniques used to attempt attacks are constantly changing.  A breach or successful attack could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation.ITEM 1B