Item 1A. Risk Factors,” that
    the Registrant believes could cause actual results to differ
    materially from any forward-looking statement.


 


    Although the Registrant believes it has been prudent in its
    plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal
    or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can or will be
    achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance
    on such statements which speak only as of the date this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    was first filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
    Registrant undertakes no obligation to update any of the
    forward-looking information included in this document, whether
    as a result of new information, future events, changes in
    expectations or otherwise.

 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    



    

K - 2
    




 







 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.    

    
    Business.





 


    a) General history of business.


 


    The Registrant (also referred to as Tiffany & Co. or
    the “Company”) is the parent corporation of Tiffany
    and Company (“Tiffany”). Charles Lewis Tiffany founded
    Tiffany’s business in 1837. He incorporated Tiffany in New
    York in 1868. The Registrant acquired Tiffany in 1984 and
    completed the initial public offering of the Registrant’s
    Common Stock in 1987. The Registrant is a holding company and
    conducts all business through its subsidiary corporations.
    Through those subsidiaries, the Company sells fine jewelry and
    other items that it manufactures or has made by others to its
    specifications.


 


    b) Financial information about industry segments.


 


    Effective with the first quarter of 2008, the Company changed
    segment reporting to reflect operating results for the following
    regions: the Americas, Asia-Pacific and Europe. Prior year
    results have been revised to reflect this change. The Company
    has expanded its global reach and management has determined that
    it is more meaningful to assess performance separately for those
    three distinct regions.


 


    The Registrant’s segment information for the fiscal years
    ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is reported in
    “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data — Note Q. Segment Information.”


 


    c) Narrative description of business.


 


    As used in this report, the terms “Fiscal 2008,”
    “Fiscal 2007” and “Fiscal 2006” refer to the
    fiscal years ended on January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.






 



    DISTRIBUTION AND
    MARKETING
    


 



    Maintenance of the
    TIFFANY & CO. Brand
    


 


    The TIFFANY & CO. brand (the “Brand”)
    is the single most important asset of Tiffany and, indirectly,
    of the Registrant. The strength of the Brand goes beyond
    trademark rights (see TRADEMARKS below) and is inherent in
    consumer perceptions of the Brand. Management monitors the
    strength of the Brand through focus groups and survey research.


 


    Management believes that consumers associate the Brand with
    high-quality gemstone jewelry, particularly diamond jewelry;
    excellent customer service; an elegant store and online
    environment; upscale store locations; “classic”
    product positioning; distinctive and high-quality packaging
    materials (most significantly, the TIFFANY & CO. blue
    box); and sophisticated style and romance.


 


    Tiffany’s business plan includes many expenses and
    strategies to maintain the strength of the Brand. Stores must be
    staffed with knowledgeable professionals to provide excellent
    service. Elegant store and online environments increase capital
    and maintenance costs. Display practices require sufficient
    store footprints and lease budgets to enable Tiffany to showcase
    fine jewelry in a retail setting consistent with the
    Brand’s positioning. Stores in the best “high
    street” and luxury mall locations are more expensive and
    difficult to secure, but reinforce the Brand’s luxury
    connotations through association with other luxury brands. By
    the same token, over-proliferation 
 

    TIFFANY & CO.
    





    K - 3
    




 



of stores, or stores that are
    located in second-tier markets, can diminish the strength of the
    Brand. The classic positioning of Tiffany’s product line
    supports the Brand, but limits the display space that can be
    afforded to fashion jewelry. Tiffany’s packaging practices
    support consumer expectations with respect to the Brand and are
    more expensive. Some advertising is done primarily to reinforce
    the Brand’s association with luxury, sophistication, style
    and romance, while other advertising is primarily intended to
    increase demand for particular products. Maintaining its
    position within the high-end of the jewelry market requires
    Tiffany to invest significantly in diamond and gemstone
    inventory and accept reduced overall gross margins; it also
    causes some consumers to view Tiffany as beyond their price
    range.

 

 


    All of the foregoing demand that management make tradeoffs
    between business initiatives that might generate incremental
    sales and profits and Brand maintenance objectives. This is a
    dynamic process. To the extent that management deems that
    product, advertising or distribution initiatives will unduly and
    negatively affect the strength of the Brand, such initiatives
    have been and will be curtailed or modified appropriately. At
    the same time, Brand maintenance suppositions are regularly
    questioned by management to determine if the tradeoff between
    sales and profit is truly worth the positive effect on the
    Brand. At times, management has determined, and will in the
    future determine, that the strength of the Brand warranted, or
    that it will permit, more aggressive and profitable distribution
    and marketing initiatives.






 



    REPORTABLE SEGMENTS
    


 



    Americas
    


 


    Retail Sales. Consists of sales transacted in
    TIFFANY & CO. stores in the U.S. (76),  Mexico
(6), Canada (2) and Brazil (2).


 


    Internet and Catalog Sales. Tiffany distributes a
    selection of its products in the U.S. and Canada through
    its websites at www.tiffany.com and
    www.tiffany.ca. Tiffany also distributes catalogs of
    selected merchandise to its proprietary list of customers in the
    U.S. and to mailing lists rented from third parties.
    SELECTIONS®

    catalogs are published four times per year, supplemented by
    other targeted catalogs.


 


    The following table sets forth certain data with respect to
    Internet, mail and telephone order operations for the periods
    indicated:


 




      
       
         
         
          
       
         
         
          
       
         
        
          




 


 


    2008
    


 


 


    2007
    


 


 


    2006 
    


 




    


 



 





    Number of names on U.S. Internet and catalog mailing lists at
    fiscal year-end (consists of U.S. customers 
who purchased by
    Internet, mail or telephone prior 
to the applicable date):



 


 


    3,854,000


 


 


 


    3,593,000


 


 


 


    3,188,000 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total U.S. catalog mailings during fiscal year:



 


 


    18,150,000


 


 


 


    19,500,000


 


 


 


    21,700,000 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total U.S. Internet, mail or telephone orders received during
    fiscal year:



 


 


    667,000


 


 


 


    771,000


 


 


 


    744,000 


 




    








 


    Business-to-Business Sales. Business sales executives
    call on business clients, selling products drawn from the retail
    product line and items specially developed for the business
    market, including trophies and items designed for the particular
    customer. Most of such sales occur in the U.S. Price
    allowances are given to business account holders for certain
    purchases. Business customers have 
 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 4
    




 





typically made purchases for
    gift giving, employee service and achievement recognition
    awards, customer incentives and other purposes. Products and
    services are marketed through a sales organization, through
    advertising in newspapers and business periodicals and through
    the publication of special catalogs. Business account holders
    may make gift purchases through the Company’s website at
    http://business.tiffany.com.


 


    Wholesale Distribution. Selected TIFFANY & CO.
    merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in
    markets in the Central/South American, Caribbean and Canadian
    regions. Such sales represented less than 1% of the
    Registrant’s net sales in Fiscal 2008.


 



    Asia-Pacific
    


 


    Retail Sales. Consists of sales transacted in
    TIFFANY & CO. locations in Japan (57), China (8),
    Korea (8), Hong Kong (7), Taiwan (5), Australia (4), Singapore
    (3), Macau (2) and Malaysia (2).


 


    Business with Department Stores in Japan. In Fiscal 2008,
    2007 and 2006, total net sales in Japan of TIFFANY &
    CO. merchandise represented 19%, 17% and 19% of the
    Registrant’s net sales.


 


    The Registrant does business in Japan through its wholly-owned
    subsidiary, Tiffany & Co. Japan, Inc.
    (“Tiffany-Japan”). 79% of Tiffany-Japan’s net
    sales in Fiscal 2008 were transacted in boutiques
    within Japanese department stores. Tiffany-Japan also operates
    four freestanding stores outside the scope of its Japanese
    department store operations. In 2008, Mitsukoshi and Isetan
    department stores merged to form the company Isetan Mitsukoshi
    Holdings Ltd. (“Isetan Mitsukoshi”), making it the
    largest department store group in Japan. The establishment of
    Isetan Mitsukoshi realigned Japan’s department store
    sector. It is now dominated by four department store groups:
    Isetan Mitsukoshi; J. Front Retailing Co. (Daimaru and
    Matsuzakaya department stores); Takashimaya; and Millennium
    Retailing Co. (Sogo and Seibu department stores).


 


    At the end of Fiscal 2008, Tiffany-Japan was operating
    TIFFANY & CO. boutiques in locations controlled by the
    major department store groups as follows: Isetan Mitsukoshi
    (18), J. Front Retailing Co. (9), Takashimaya (9), and
    Millennium Retailing Co. (3). Tiffany-Japan was also operating
    14 boutiques in stores controlled by other Japanese companies.


 


    With 18 of 53 TIFFANY & CO. department store
    boutiques, Isetan Mitsukoshi is the single largest department
    store operator housing TIFFANY & CO. boutiques in
    Japan. Sales recorded in retail locations operated within Isetan
    Mitsukoshi accounted for 6%, 6% and 8% of the Registrant’s
    net sales in Fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.


 


    Tiffany-Japan and the department store operators have distinct
    responsibilities and risks in the operation of
    TIFFANY & CO. boutiques in Japan.


 


    The department store operator:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    provides and maintains boutique facilities;




 



     
        •  

    
    assumes retail credit and certain other risks; and




 



     
        •  

    
    acts for Tiffany-Japan in the sale of merchandise.





 


    Tiffany-Japan:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    has merchandising, marketing and display responsibilities;




 



 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 5
    




 



 




    
    
    


     
        •  

    
    owns the merchandise;




 



     
        •  

    
    establishes retail prices;




 



     
        •  

    
    bears the risk of currency fluctuation;




 



     
        •  

    
    provides one or more brand managers in each boutique;




 



     
        •  

    
    manages inventory;




 



     
        •  

    
    controls and funds all advertising and publicity programs with
    respect to TIFFANY & CO. merchandise; and




 



     
        •  

    
    recognizes as revenues the retail price charged to the ultimate
    consumer.





 


    Tiffany-Japan provides retail staff and bears the risk of
    inventory loss in concession boutiques (47 locations) and
    the department store operator provides retail staff and bears
    the risk of inventory loss in standard boutiques (6 locations).


 


    In return for its services and use of its facilities, the
    department store operator retains a portion (the basic portion)
    of net retail sales made in TIFFANY & CO. boutiques.
    The basic portion varies depending on the type of boutique and
    the retail price of the merchandise involved, with the fees
    generally varying from store to store. The highest basic portion
    available to any department store is 23% and the lowest is 14%.


 


    In recent years, Tiffany-Japan has, with the agreement of the
    involved department store operators, closed underperforming
    boutiques and relocated the boutiques to other department store
    locations in order to improve sales growth and profitability.
    Management expects to continue to evaluate boutique locations to
    assess their potential for growth and profitability.


 


    Internet Sales. The Company offers a selection of
    TIFFANY & CO. merchandise for purchase in Japan and
    Australia through its websites at www.tiffany.co.jp and
    www.tiffany.com/au.


 


    Business-to-Business Sales. Consists of products drawn
    from the retail product line and items specifically developed
    and sold to business customers.


 


    Wholesale Distribution. Selected TIFFANY & CO.
    merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale in
    Asia-Pacific markets, predominantly in the Middle Eastern
    region. Such sales represented 1% of the Registrant’s net
    sales in Fiscal 2008.


 



    Europe
    


 


    Retail Sales. Consists of sales transacted in TIFFANY & CO. stores in the United Kingdom (7),
    Germany (5), Italy (4), France (3), Austria (1), Switzerland
    (1), Belgium (1), Spain (1) and Ireland (1).


 


    Internet Sales. The Company offers a selection of
    TIFFANY & CO. merchandise for purchase in England,
    Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland through its website at
    www.tiffany.com/uk.


 


    Business-to-Business Sales. Consists of products drawn
    from the retail product line and items specifically developed
    and sold to business customers.



 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 6
    




 



 


    Wholesale Distribution. Selected TIFFANY & CO.
    merchandise is sold to independent distributors for resale
    predominantly in Russia. Such sales represented less than 1% of
    the Registrant’s net sales in Fiscal 2008.


 



    Other
    


 


    Other sales are those made in all non-reportable segments of the
    Registrant’s business. Sales in Other consist primarily of
    wholesale sales of diamonds. Other also includes sales made by
    businesses operated under trademarks or trade names other than
    TIFFANY & CO., such as IRIDESSE, and earnings received
    from a licensing agreement with Luxottica Group for the
    distribution of TIFFANY & CO. brand eyewear. Expected
    earnings received from a licensing agreement with The Swatch
    Group Ltd. (the “Swatch Group”) for
    TIFFANY & CO. brand watches will be included in Other
    when received.


 


    Wholesale Diamond Sales. The Company sells diamonds to
    third parties that are found to be unsuitable for Tiffany’s
    needs. The Company regularly purchases parcels of rough diamonds
    for further processing, but not all rough diamonds so purchased
    are suitable for Tiffany’s needs. In addition, not all
    polished diamonds are suitable for Tiffany jewelry. The
    Company’s objective from such sales is to recoup its
    original costs, thereby earning minimal, if any, gross margin on
    those transactions.


 


    Iridesse, Inc. The Company operates a retail subsidiary,
    under the name Iridesse, Inc. (“Iridesse”), which
    engages exclusively in the design and retail sale of pearl
    jewelry in the U.S. At the end of Fiscal 2008, there were
    16 IRIDESSE retail stores. In January 2009, management committed
    to a plan to close all IRIDESSE stores after agreements are
    reached with landlords and inventory is sold.


 


    Little Switzerland, Inc. In 2007, the Company sold 100%
    of the stock of Little Switzerland, Inc. (“Little
    Switzerland”) to an unaffiliated third party for net
    proceeds of $32,870,000, subject to a contractual post-closing
    balance sheet adjustment. Little Switzerland’s results have
    been reclassified to discontinued operations. The Company agreed
    to distribute TIFFANY & CO. merchandise for resale in
    TIFFANY & CO. boutiques maintained in certain LITTLE
    SWITZERLAND stores post-closing. In 2007, the Company recorded a
    $54,260,000 pre-tax charge due to the sale of Little Switzerland.


 



    Expansion of
    Operations
    


 


    Management regularly evaluates potential markets for new
    TIFFANY & CO. stores with a view to the demographics
    of the area to be served, consumer demand and the proximity of
    other luxury brands and existing TIFFANY & CO.
    locations. Management recognizes that over-saturation of any
    market could diminish the distinctive appeal of the Brand, but
    believes that there are a significant number of locations
    remaining in the Americas, Asia-Pacific and Europe that meet the
    requirements of a TIFFANY & CO. location.


 


    In 2008, Tiffany opened a 2,600 gross square foot store in
    the U.S. that offers a selected product assortment which
    excludes engagement and high-end jewelry. Management anticipates
    that Tiffany will open additional locations in this smaller
    format, while continuing to open full assortment stores


    as well. The selection allows the store to concentrate
    higher-margin products in a smaller space. Management believes
    that this new format will be highly efficient and will give the
    Company the opportunity to open stores in affluent, albeit
    smaller, U.S. cities and to better serve larger markets
    where the Company already operates full assortment stores.



 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 7
    




 


 


    The following chart details the growth in worldwide TIFFANY &
    CO. retail locations operated by Registrant’s
subsidiary companies since Fiscal 1993:


 




      
       
         
         
          
       
         
         
          
       
         
         
          
       
         
         
          
       
         
         
          
       
         
         
          




 


 


    Americas


 


 


    Asia-Pacific


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


    Canada, 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


    Latin/ 


 


 


 


 


 


    Other 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




    End of
    


 


 


 


 


    South 
    


 


 


 


 


 


    Asia- 
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




    Fiscal:


 


    U.S.


 


 


    Americas 


 


 


    Japan


 


 


    Pacific 


 


 


    Europe


 


 


    Total 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 



 





    1993



 


 


    16


 


 


 


    1 


 


 


 


    37


 


 


 


    5 


 


 


 


    6


 


 


 


    65 


 





    1994



 


 


    18


 


 


 


    1 


 


 


 


    37


 


 


 


    7 


 


 


 


    6


 


 


 


    69 


 





    1995



 


 


    21


 


 


 


    1 


 


 


 


    38


 


 


 


    9 


 


 


 


    6


 


 


 


    75 


 





    1996



 


 


    23


 


 


 


    1 


 


 


 


    39


 


 


 


    12 


 


 


 


    6


 


 


 


    81 


 





    1997



 


 


    28


 


 


 


    2 


 


 


 


    42


 


 


 


    17 


 


 


 


    7


 


 


 


    96 


 





    1998



 


 


    34


 


 


 


    2 


 


 


 


    44


 


 


 


    17 


 


 


 


    7


 


 


 


    104 


 





    1999



 


 


    38


 


 


 


    3 


 


 


 


    44


 


 


 


    17 


 


 


 


    8


 


 


 


    110 


 





    2000



 


 


    42


 


 


 


    4 


 


 


 


    44


 


 


 


    21 


 


 


 


    8


 


 


 


    119 


 





    2001



 


 


    44


 


 


 


    5 


 


 


 


    47


 


 


 


    20 


 


 


 


    10


 


 


 


    126 


 





    2002



 


 


    47


 


 


 


    5 


 


 


 


    48


 


 


 


    20 


 


 


 


    11


 


 


 


    131 


 





    2003



 


 


    51


 


 


 


    7 


 


 


 


    50


 


 


 


    22 


 


 


 


    11


 


 


 


    141 


 





    2004



 


 


    55


 


 


 


    7 


 


 


 


    53


 


 


 


    24 


 


 


 


    12


 


 


 


    151 


 





    2005



 


 


    59


 


 


 


    7 


 


 


 


    50


 


 


 


    25 


 


 


 


    13


 


 


 


    154 


 





    2006



 


 


    64


 


 


 


    9 


 


 


 


    52


 


 


 


    28 


 


 


 


    14


 


 


 


    167 


 





    2007



 


 


    70


 


 


 


    10 


 


 


 


    53


 


 


 


    34 


 


 


 


    17


 


 


 


    184 


 





    2008



 


 


    76


 


 


 


    10 


 


 


 


    57


 


 


 


    39 


 


 


 


    24


 


 


 


    206 


 




    








 


    The Company plans to moderate the rate of store openings, net of
    store closings, from 22 in 2008 to 13 stores in 2009. Management
    anticipates opening five stores in the Americas, seven stores in
    Asia-Pacific and one store in Europe in 2009.


 


    Management also anticipates continued expansion of its Internet,
    business-to-business and wholesale operations around the world.


 



    Products
    


 


    The Company’s principal product category is jewelry. It
    also sells timepieces, sterling silver goods (other than
    jewelry), china, crystal, stationery, fragrances and personal
    accessories.


 


    Tiffany offers an extensive selection of TIFFANY &
    CO. brand jewelry at a wide range of prices. In Fiscal
    2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 87%, 85% and 85% of the
    Registrant’s net sales were attributable to
    TIFFANY & CO. brand jewelry. Designs are developed by
    employees, suppliers, independent designers and independent
    “name” designers (see “Designer Licenses”
    below). In Fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, the remaining 13%, 15%
    and 15% of the Registrant’s net sales were attributable to
    TIFFANY & CO. brand non-jewelry merchandise and sales
    from businesses operated under trademarks or trade names other
    than TIFFANY & CO.



 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 8
    




 



 

    Sales by Reportable Segment of TIFFANY &
    CO. Jewelry by Category


 




      
      
         
         
          
      
         
         
          
      
         
         
          
      
         
        
          




 


 


    % to total


 


 


    % to total


 


 


    % to total


 


 


    % to total 


 




    2008
    


 


    Americas
    


 


 


    Asia-Pacific
    


 


 


    Europe
    


 


 


    Reportable 
    


 




    Category


 


    Sales


 


 


    Sales


 


 


    Sales


 


 


    Segment Sales 


 




    


 



 





    A



 


 


    26%


 


 


 


    30%


 


 


 


    25%


 


 


 


    27% 


 





    B



 


 


    15%


 


 


 


    30%


 


 


 


    16%


 


 


 


    20% 


 





    C



 


 


    10%


 


 


 


    12%


 


 


 


    11%


 


 


 


    11% 


 





    D



 


 


    34%


 


 


 


    20%


 


 


 


    40%


 


 


 


    30% 


 




    








 




      
      
         
         
          
      
         
         
          
      
         
         
          
      
         
        
          




 


 


    % to total


 


 


    % to total


 


 


    % to total


 


 


    % to total 


 




    2007
    


 


    Americas
    


 


 


    Asia-Pacific
    


 


 


    Europe
    


 


 


    Reportable 
    


 




    Category


 


    Sales


 


 


    Sales


 


 


    Sales


 


 


    Segment Sales 


 




    


 



 





    A



 


 


    29%


 


 


 


    30%


 


 


 


    28%


 


 


 


    29% 


 





    B



 


 


    14%


 


 


 


    29%


 


 


 


    14%


 


 


 


    18% 


 





    C



 


 


    10%


 


 


 


    12%


 


 


 


    12%


 


 


 


    11% 


 





    D



 


 


    32%


 


 


 


    21%


 


 


 


    37%


 


 


 


    29% 


 




    








 




      
      
         
         
          
      
         
         
          
      
         
         
          
      
         
        
          




 


 


    % to total


 


 


    % to total


 


 


    % to total


 


 


    % to total 


 




    2006
    


 


    Americas
    


 


 


    Asia-Pacific
    


 


 


    Europe
    


 


 


    Reportable 
    


 




    Category


 


    Sales


 


 


    Sales


 


 


    Sales


 


 


    Segment Sales 


 




    


 



 





    A



 


 


    28%


 


 


 


    29%


 


 


 


    29%


 


 


 


    28% 


 





    B



 


 


    13%


 


 


 


    28%


 


 


 


    16%


 


 


 


    18% 


 





    C



 


 


    11%


 


 


 


    11%


 


 


 


    12%


 


 


 


    11% 


 





    D



 


 


    32%


 


 


 


    23%


 


 


 


    33%


 


 


 


    30% 


 




    








 




    
    
    



     
        A)  

    
    This category includes most gemstone jewelry and gemstone band
    rings, other than engagement jewelry. Most jewelry in this
    category is constructed of platinum, although gold was used as
    the primary metal in approximately 10% of pieces. Most items in
    this category contain diamonds, other gemstones or both. The
    average price of merchandise sold in 2008, 2007 and 2006 in this
    category was approximately $3,300, $3,400 and $3,100 for total
    reportable segments.




 



     
        B)  

    
    This category includes diamond rings and wedding bands marketed
    to brides and grooms. Most jewelry in this category is
    constructed of platinum, although gold was used as the primary
    metal in approximately 3% of pieces. Most sales in this category
    are of items containing diamonds. The average price of
    merchandise sold in 2008, 2007 and 2006 in this category was
    approximately $3,000, $3,000 and $2,500 for total reportable
    segments.




 



     
        C)  

    
    This category generally consists of non-gemstone, gold or
    platinum jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents
    in some pieces. The average price of merchandise sold in 2008,
    2007 and 2006 in this category was approximately $700, $700 and
    $600 for total reportable segments.




 



     
        D)  

    
    This category generally consists of non-gemstone, sterling
    silver jewelry, although small gemstones are used as accents in
    some pieces. The average price of merchandise sold in 2008, 2007
    and 2006 in this category was approximately $200 for total
    reportable segments in each year.






 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 9
    




 



 


    In addition to jewelry, the Company sells TIFFANY &
    CO. brand merchandise in the following categories: timepieces
    and clocks; sterling silver merchandise, including flatware,
    hollowware (tea and coffee services, bowls, cups and trays),
    trophies, key holders, picture frames and desk accessories;
    stainless steel flatware; crystal, glassware, china and other
    tableware; custom engraved stationery; writing instruments;
    eyewear and fashion accessories. Fragrance products are sold
    under the trademarks TIFFANY, PURE TIFFANY and TIFFANY FOR MEN.
    Tiffany also sells other brands of timepieces and tableware
    in its U.S. stores. None
    of these categories individually represents 10% or more of net
    sales.






 



    ADVERTISING AND
    PROMOTION
    


 


    The Registrant regularly advertises, primarily in newspapers and
    magazines, and periodically conducts product promotional events.
    In Fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, the Registrant spent
    approximately $189 million (6.6% of net sales),
    $174 million (5.9% of net sales) and $162 million
    (6.3% of net sales) on worldwide advertising, which includes
    costs for media, production, catalogs, promotional events and
    other related items. Management currently anticipates a decline
    in advertising spending in 2009.






 



    PUBLIC RELATIONS
    


 


    Public Relations (promotional) activity is a significant aspect
    of the Registrant’s business. Management believes that
    Tiffany’s image is enhanced by a program of charity
    sponsorships, grants and merchandise donations. Donations are
    also made to The Tiffany & Co. Foundation, a private
    foundation organized to support 501(c)(3) charitable
    organizations with efforts concentrated in environmental
    conservation and support for the decorative arts. Tiffany also
    engages in a program of retail promotions and media activities
    to maintain consumer awareness of the Company and its products.
    Each year, Tiffany publishes its well-known Blue Book
    which showcases jewelry and other merchandise. The
    Registrant considers these and other promotional efforts
    important in maintaining Tiffany’s image.






 



    TRADEMARKS
    


 


    The designations
    TIFFANY®

    and TIFFANY &
    CO.®

    are the principal trademarks of Tiffany, as well as serving as
    trade names. Through its subsidiaries, the Company has obtained
    and is the proprietor of trademark registrations for TIFFANY and
    TIFFANY & CO., as well as the TIFFANY BLUE
    BOX®

    and the color TIFFANY
    BLUE®

    for a variety of product categories in the U.S. and in
    other countries.


 


    Tiffany maintains a program to protect its trademarks and
    institutes legal action where necessary to prevent others either
    from registering or using marks which are considered to create a
    likelihood of confusion with the Company or its products.


 


    Tiffany has been generally successful in such actions and
    management considers that its U.S. trademark rights in
    TIFFANY and TIFFANY & CO. are strong. However, use of
    the designation TIFFANY by third parties (often small companies)
    on unrelated goods or services, frequently transient in nature,
    may not come to the attention of Tiffany or may not rise to a
    level of concern warranting legal action.


 


    Tiffany actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit
    TIFFANY & CO. goods through civil action and
    cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. However,
    counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods remain available in
    many markets and the cost of enforcement is expected to continue



 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 10
    




 



 


    to rise. In recent years, there has been an increase in the
    availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry,
    in various markets by street vendors and small retailers and on
    the Internet. As Internet counterfeiting continues to become
    increasingly prolific, Tiffany has responded by engaging
    investigators and outside counsel to monitor the Internet and
    take various actions, including litigating through the
    Internet’s Uniform Dispute Resolution Policy, to stop
    infringing activity.


 


    In July 2004, Tiffany initiated a civil proceeding against eBay,
    Inc. in the Federal District Court for the Southern District of
    New York, alleging direct and contributory trademark
    infringement, unfair competition, false advertising and
    trademark dilution. Tiffany sought damages and injunctive relief
    stemming from eBay’s alleged assistance and contribution to
    the offering for sale, advertising and promotion, in the U.S.,
    of counterfeit TIFFANY jewelry and any other jewelry or
    merchandise which bears the TIFFANY trademark and is dilutive or
    confusingly similar to the TIFFANY trademarks. In November 2007,
    the case was tried as a bench trial and the Court found in favor
    of eBay. The Company has appealed the decision in the Second
    Circuit and is awaiting a hearing date.

 

    Despite the general fame of the TIFFANY and TIFFANY &
    CO. name and mark for the Company’s products and services,
    Tiffany is not the sole person entitled to use the name TIFFANY
    in every category in every country of the world; third parties
    have registered the name TIFFANY in the U.S. in the food
    services category, and in a number of foreign countries in
    respect of certain product categories (including, in a few
    countries, the categories of food, cosmetics, jewelry, clothing
    and tobacco products) under circumstances where Tiffany’s
    rights were not sufficiently clear under local law,
    and/or where
    management concluded that Tiffany’s foreseeable business
    interests did not warrant the expense of litigation.






 



    DESIGNER LICENSES
    


 


    Tiffany has been the sole licensee for jewelry designed by Elsa
    Peretti, Paloma Picasso and Frank Gehry, respectively, since Fiscal 1974, 1980
    and 2005.


 


    Ms. Peretti and Ms. Picasso retain ownership of
    copyrights for their designs and of their trademarks and
    exercise approval rights with respect to important aspects of
    the promotion, display, manufacture and merchandising of their
    designs. Tiffany is required by contract to devote a portion of
    its advertising budget to the promotion of their respective
    products; each is paid a royalty by Tiffany for jewelry and
    other items designed by them and sold under their respective
    names. Written agreements exist between Ms. Peretti and
    Tiffany and between Ms. Picasso and Tiffany, but each may
    be terminated by either party following six months notice to the
    other party. No arrangements are currently in place to continue
    the sale of designs following the death or disability of either
    Ms. Peretti or Ms. Picasso. Tiffany is the sole retail
    source for merchandise designed by Ms. Peretti worldwide;
    however, she has reserved by contract the right to appoint other
    distributors in markets outside the U.S., Canada, Japan,
    Singapore, Australia, Italy, the U.K., Switzerland and Germany.


 


    The designs of Ms. Peretti accounted for 11%, 11% and 12%
    of the Company’s net sales in Fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.
    Merchandise designed by Ms. Picasso accounted for 3%, 3%
    and 4% of the Company’s net sales in Fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006. The Gehry collection was made available for retail sale in
    Fiscal 2006. Merchandise designed by Mr. Gehry accounted
    for 1% of the Company’s net sales in Fiscal 2008, and 2% in
    2007 and 2006. The Registrant’s operating results could be
    adversely affected were it to cease to be a licensee of these
    designers or should its degree of exclusivity in respect of
    their designs be diminished.



 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 11
    




 







 



    MERCHANDISE
    PURCHASING, MANUFACTURING AND RAW MATERIALS
    


 


    The Company’s manufacturing facilities produce
    approximately
    55%-60% of
    Tiffany merchandise sold. The balance, including almost all
    non-jewelry items, is purchased from third parties.


 


    Tiffany produces jewelry and silver goods in Rhode Island and
    New York and silver hollowware in New Jersey. Other subsidiaries
    of the Company process, cut and polish diamonds at facilities
    outside the U.S.


 


    It is not expected that Tiffany will ever manufacture all of its
    needs. Factors to be considered in its decision to outsource
    manufacturing include product quality, gross margin, access to
    or mastery of various jewelry-making skills and technology,
    support for alternative capacity and the cost of capital
    investments.


 


    Purchases of Polished Gemstones and Precious Metals.
    Gemstones and precious metals used in making Tiffany’s
    jewelry are purchased from a variety of sources. Most purchases
    are from suppliers with which Tiffany enjoys long-standing
    relationships.


 


    The Company does not enter into long-term supply or requirements
    arrangements with its polished gemstone and precious metal
    vendors, but does enter into purchase orders for fixed
    quantities with nearly all of these vendors. These relationships
    may be terminated at any time by the Company without penalty;
    such termination would not discharge the Company’s
    obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders placed prior to
    the termination.


 


    Products containing one or more diamonds of varying sizes,
    including diamonds used as accents, side-stones and
    center-stones, accounted for approximately 47%, 48% and 46% of
    Tiffany’s net


    sales in Fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. Products containing one or
    more diamonds of one carat or larger accounted for 10%, 11% and
    10% of net sales in each of those years.


 


    Tiffany purchases polished diamonds principally from nine key
    vendors. Were trade relations between Tiffany and one or more of
    these vendors to be disrupted, the Company’s sales could be
    adversely affected in the short term until alternative supply
    arrangements could be established. In the current economic
    environment of reduced retail and wholesale demand, the
    world’s available diamond supply appears to management to
    exceed demand, and wholesale prices for all polished diamonds
    have declined. The potential exists for continued wholesale
    price declines in polished diamonds in the short term.


 


    Some, but not all, of Tiffany’s suppliers are Diamond
    Trading Company (“DTC”) sightholders (see “The
    DTC” below), and it is estimated that a significant portion
    of the diamonds that Tiffany has purchased have had their source
    with the DTC. The Company is a DTC sightholder for rough
    diamonds through its joint ventures (see below).


 


    Except as noted above, Tiffany believes that there are numerous
    alternative sources for gemstones and precious metals and that
    the loss of any single supplier would not have a material
    adverse effect on its operations.


 


    Purchases of Rough Diamonds. The Company has established
    diamond processing operations that purchase, sort, cut
    and/or
    polish rough diamonds for use by Tiffany. The Company now has
    such operations in Belgium, South Africa, Botswana, Namibia,
    China, Mauritius and Vietnam. Operations in South Africa,
    Botswana and Namibia are conducted through joint ventures with
    third parties.



 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 12
    




 



 


    The Company has invested in the operations in South Africa,
    Botswana and Namibia in order to increase its opportunity to buy
    rough “conflict-free” diamonds (see “Conflict
    Diamonds” below) and may invest in additional opportunities
    that will potentially lead to additional sources of such
    diamonds. However, management does not foresee a shortage of
    conflict-free diamonds in the short term.


 


    In Fiscal 2008, approximately 40% of the polished diamonds
    acquired by Tiffany for use in jewelry were produced from rough
    diamonds purchased by the Company. The balance of Tiffany’s
    needs for polished diamonds were purchased from third parties
    (see above). The Company expects to increase its purchases of
    rough diamonds in the future. In conducting these activities, it
    is the Company’s intention to supply Tiffany’s needs
    for cut/polished diamonds to as great an extent as possible.


 


    In order to acquire rough diamonds, the Company must purchase
    mixed assortments of rough diamonds. It is thus necessary to
    purchase some rough diamonds that cannot be cut to meet
    Tiffany’s quality standards and that must be sold to third
    parties; such sales have been conducted through the Other
    non-reportable segment. To make such sales, the Company must
    charge a market price and is unable to earn any significant
    profit above its original cost. Sales of rough diamonds in the
    Other non-reportable segment have had and will continue to have
    the effect of reducing the Company’s overall gross margins.


 


    The Company has a diamond purchase agreement with Harry Winston
    Diamond Corporation (formerly known as Aber Diamond Corporation)
    whereby the Company has the obligation to purchase a minimum of
    $50,000,000 of rough diamonds, subject to availability and the
    Company’s quality standards, per year for a
    10-year
    period ending in 2013. The Company has not entered into
    long-term supply arrangements with its other significant rough
    diamond vendors.


 


    The DTC. The supply and price of rough and polished
    diamonds in the principal world markets have been and continue
    to be influenced by the DTC, an affiliate of De Beers S.A., the
    Luxembourg-based holding company of the De Beers Group. Although
    the role of the DTC has diminished, the DTC will continue to
    affect traditional channels of supply in the markets for rough
    and cut diamonds. The DTC continues to supply a significant
    portion of the world market for rough, gem-quality diamonds,
    notwithstanding that its historical ability to control worldwide
    production supplies has been significantly diminished due to
    changing policies in diamond-producing countries and revised
    contractual arrangements with other diamond mine operators.

 


    The DTC continues to exert influence on the demand for polished
    diamonds through advertising and marketing efforts throughout
    the world and through the requirements it imposes on those who
    purchase rough diamonds from the DTC (“sightholders”).


 


    Worldwide Availability of Diamonds. The availability and
    price of diamonds to the DTC, Tiffany and Tiffany’s
    suppliers may be, to some extent, dependent on the political
    situation in diamond-producing countries, the opening of new
    mines and the continuance of the prevailing supply and marketing
    arrangements for rough diamonds. As a consequence of changes in
    the sightholder system and increased demand in the retail
    diamond trade, diamond prices increased significantly in the
    years leading up to 2008. During 2008, as global demand for rough
    diamonds waned, diamond prices began to
    decrease.


 


    Sustained interruption in the supply of rough diamonds, an
    overabundance of supply or a substantial change in the marketing
    arrangements described above could adversely affect Tiffany and
    the retail jewelry industry as a whole. Changes in the marketing
    and advertising policies of the DTC and its direct purchasers
    could affect consumer demand for diamonds.


 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 13
    




 




 


    Conflict Diamonds. Increasing media attention has been
    focused in recent years on the issue of “conflict”
    diamonds. Conflict diamonds are extracted from war-torn
    geographic regions and sold by rebel forces to fund
    insurrection. Allegations have been made that diamond trading is
    used as a source of funds to further terrorist activities.
    Concerned participants in the diamond trade, including Tiffany
    and non-government organizations, such as the Council for
    Responsible Jewellery Practices, of which Tiffany is a member,
    seek to exclude such diamonds, which represent a small fraction
    of the world’s supply, from legitimate trade through an
    international system of certification and legislation. It is
    expected that such efforts will not substantially affect the
    supply of diamonds.


 


    Manufactured Diamonds. Manufactured diamonds have become
    available in small quantities. Although significant questions
    remain as to the ability of producers to produce manufactured
    diamonds economically within a full range of sizes and natural
    diamond colors, and as to consumer acceptance of manufactured
    diamonds, it is possible that manufactured diamonds may become a
    factor in the market. Should manufactured diamonds come into the
    market in significant quantities at prices significantly below
    those for natural diamonds of comparable quality, the price for
    natural diamonds may fall unless consumers are willing to pay a
    premium for natural diamonds. Such a price decline could affect
    the price that Tiffany is able to obtain for its products. Also,
    a significant decline in the price of natural diamonds may
    affect the economics of diamond mining, causing some mining
    operations to become uneconomic; this, in turn, could lead to
    shortages in natural diamonds.


 


    Finished Jewelry. Finished jewelry is purchased from
    approximately 80 manufacturers, most of which have long-standing
    relationships with Tiffany. However, Tiffany does not enter into
    long-term supply arrangements with its finished goods vendors.
    Tiffany does enter into written blanket purchase order
    agreements with nearly all of its finished goods vendors. These
    relationships may be terminated at any time by Tiffany without
    penalty; such termination would not discharge Tiffany’s
    obligations under unfulfilled purchase orders placed prior to
    termination. The blanket purchase order agreements establish
    non-price terms by which Tiffany may purchase and by which
    vendors may sell finished goods to Tiffany. These terms include
    payment terms, shipping procedures, product quality
    requirements, merchandise specifications and vendor social
    responsibility requirements. Tiffany believes that there are
    alternative sources for most jewelry items; however, due to the
    craftsmanship involved in certain designs, Tiffany would have
    difficulty finding readily available alternatives in the short
    term.


 


    Watches. In 2007, the Company entered into a
    20-year
    license and distribution agreement with The Swatch Group Ltd.
    for the manufacture and distribution of TIFFANY & CO.
    brand watches. Under the agreement, the Swatch Group has
    incorporated a new watchmaking company in Switzerland for the
    design, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and
    service of TIFFANY & CO. brand watches. The new
    company is authorized to use certain trademarks owned by the
    Company and operate under the TIFFANY & CO. name. The
    distribution of TIFFANY & CO. watches will be made
    through the Swatch Group distribution network via Swatch Group
    affiliates, Swatch Group retail facilities and third-party
    distributors as well as through TIFFANY & CO. stores,
    all of which is


    expected to commence in 2009. Watch sales by the Company in
    Fiscal 2008 constituted approximately 2% of net sales.






 



    COMPETITION
    


 


    Tiffany & Co. encounters significant competition
    in all product lines. Some competitors specialize in just one
    area in which Tiffany is active. Many competitors have
    established worldwide, national or local reputations for style,
    quality, expertise and customer service similar to Tiffany and
    compete on the basis of that reputation. Other jewelers and
    retailers compete primarily through


 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 14
    




 






advertised price promotion,
    which has recently increased due to challenging economic
    conditions and decreased consumer demand. Tiffany competes on
    the basis of its reputation for high-quality products, brand
    recognition, customer service and distinctive value-priced
    merchandise and does not engage in price promotional advertising.


 


    Competition for engagement jewelry sales is particularly and
    increasingly fierce. Tiffany’s price for diamonds reflects
    the rarity of the stones it offers and the rigid parameters it
    exercises with respect to the cut, clarity and other quality
    factors which increase the beauty of Tiffany diamonds, but which
    also increase Tiffany’s cost. Tiffany competes in this
    market by stressing quality.






 



    SEASONALITY
    


 


    As a jeweler and specialty retailer, the Company’s business
    is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically
    representing at least one-third of annual net sales and
    approximately one-half of annual net earnings. Management
    expects such seasonality to continue.






 



    EMPLOYEES
    


 


    As of January 31, 2009, the Registrant’s subsidiary
    corporations employed an aggregate of approximately
    9,000 full-time and part-time persons. Of those employees,
    approximately 5,600 are employed in the United States.
    Approximately 40 of the total number of the Registrant’s
    subsidiary’s employees in South Africa are represented by
    unions and approximately 520 of the total number of
    Registrant’s subsidiary’s employees in Vietnam are
    represented by unions. None of Registrant’s unionized
    employees are employed in the United States. The Registrant
    believes that relations with its employees and these unions are
    good.


 


    Subsequent to January 31, 2009, the total number of
    full-time and part-time persons employed by the Registrant
    decreased by approximately 10% due to participation in a
    voluntary early retirement program announced in the third
    quarter of 2008 and by involuntary terminations.






 



    AVAILABLE INFORMATION
    


 


    The Company files annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    proxy and information statements and amendments to reports filed
    or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The public may
    read and copy these materials at the SEC’s Public Reference
    Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
    20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the
    public reference room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements and other
    information regarding Tiffany & Co. and other
    companies that file materials with the SEC electronically. You
    may also obtain copies of the Company’s annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Forms 10-Q
    and
    Forms 8-K,
    free of charge, on the Company’s website at
    http://investor.tiffany.com/financials.cfm.

 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 15
    




 







 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    As is the case for any retailer, the Registrant’s success
    in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon
    general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer
    attitudes. However, certain factors are specific to the
    Registrant
    and/or the
    markets in which it operates. The following “risk
    factors” are specific to the Registrant; these risk factors
    affect the likelihood that the Registrant will achieve the
    financial objectives and expectations communicated by management:


 


    (i) Risk: that challenging global economic conditions and
    related low levels of consumer confidence continue or worsen
    over a prolonged period of time and adversely affect the
    Registrant’s sales.


 


    As a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the
    Registrant’s sales results are particularly sensitive to
    changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. Consumer
    confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes
    in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation;
    interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax
    rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and
    employment prospects.


 


    Consumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines
    during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively
    affects the Registrant’s earnings because of its cost base
    and inventory investment.


 


    Many of the Registrant’s competitors may continue to react
    to falling consumer confidence by reducing their retail prices;
    such reductions
    and/or
    inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on
    the Company’s sales.


 


    In addition, some observers believe that the short-term
    attractiveness of “luxury” goods may have waned in
    certain markets, thus reducing demand. This could adversely
    affect the Registrant’s sales and margins.


 


    Uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment
    makes it more difficult for the Registrant to forecast operating
    results. The Registrant’s forecasts employ the use of
    estimates and assumptions. Actual results could differ from
    forecasts, and those differences could be material.


 


    (ii) Risk: that sales will decline or remain flat in the
    Registrant’s fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the
    holiday selling season.


 


    The Registrant’s business is seasonal in nature, with the
    fourth quarter typically representing at least one-third of
    annual net sales and approximately one-half of annual net
    earnings. Poor sales results during the Registrant’s fourth
    quarter will have a material adverse effect on the
    Registrant’s sales and profits.


 


    (iii) Risk: that regional instability and conflict will
    disrupt tourist travel.


 


    Unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises which result
    in military, terrorist or other conditions creating disruptions
    or disincentives to, or changes in the pattern, practice or
    frequency of tourist travel to the various regions where the
    Registrant operates retail stores could adversely affect the
    Registrant’s sales and profits.


 


    (iv) Risk: that foreign currencies will weaken against the
    U.S. dollar and require the Registrant to raise prices or
    shrink profit margins in locations outside of the U.S.



 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 16
    




 





 




    The Registrant operates retail stores and boutiques in various
    countries outside of the U.S. and, as a result, is exposed to market
    risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The
    Registrant’s sales in those countries represented
    46% of its net sales, of which Japan represented 19% of net
    sales, in Fiscal 2008. A substantial weakening of foreign
    currencies against the U.S. dollar would require the
    Registrant to raise its retail prices or reduce its profit
    margins in various locations outside of the U.S.
    Consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the
    Registrant’s goods; thus there is a risk that a substantial
    weakening of foreign currencies will result in reduced sales or
    profit margins.


 


    (v) Risk: that the Registrant will be unable to continue to
    offer merchandise designed by Elsa Peretti or Paloma Picasso.


 


    The Registrant’s long-standing right to sell the jewelry
    designs of Elsa Peretti and Paloma Picasso and use their
    trademarks is responsible for a substantial portion of the
    Registrant’s
    revenues. Merchandise designed by Ms. Peretti and by
    Ms. Picasso accounted for 11% and 3% of Fiscal
    2008 net sales. Tiffany has exclusive license arrangements
    with Ms. Peretti and Ms. Picasso; these arrangements
    are subject to royalty payments as well as other requirements.
    Each license may be terminated by Tiffany or the designer on six
    months notice, even in the case where no default has occurred.
    Also, no agreements have been made for the continued sale of the
    designs or use of the trademarks ELSA PERETTI or PALOMA PICASSO
    following the death of either designer. Loss of either license
    would materially adversely affect the Registrant’s business
    through lost sales and profits.


 


    (vi) Risk: that changes in prices of diamonds and precious
    metals or reduced supply availability might adversely affect the
    Registrant’s ability to produce and sell products at
    desired profit margins.


 


    Most of the Registrant’s jewelry and non-jewelry offerings
    are made with diamonds, gemstones
    and/or
    precious metals. A significant change in the prices of these
    commodities could adversely affect the Registrant’s
    business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade
    for such commodities. A substantial increase in the price of raw
    materials
    and/or
    high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality
    grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could lead to
    decreased customer demand and lost sales
    and/or
    reduced gross profit margins. Conversely, a decrease in the
    prices of raw materials could have a disruptive effect,
    negatively or positively, on sales demand and short-term margins.


 


    Acquiring diamonds for the engagement business has, at times,
    been difficult because of supply limitations; Tiffany may not be
    able to maintain a comprehensive selection of diamonds in each
    retail location due to the broad assortment of sizes, colors,
    clarity grades and cuts demanded by customers. A substantial
    increase or decrease in the supply of raw materials
    and/or
    high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality
    grades, colors and sizes that customers demand could lead to
    decreased customer demand and lost sales
    and/or
    reduced gross profit margins.


 


    If trade relationships between the Registrant and one or more of
    its significant vendors were disrupted, the Registrant’s
    sales could be adversely affected in the short-term until
    alternative supply arrangements could be established.


 


    (vii) Risk: that the value of the TIFFANY & CO.
    trademark will decline due to the sale of counterfeit
    merchandise by infringers.


 


    The TIFFANY & CO. trademark is an asset which is
    essential to the competitiveness and success of the
    Registrant’s business and the Registrant takes appropriate
    action to protect it.


 


    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 17
    




 



Tiffany actively pursues those who produce
    or sell counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods through civil
    action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies.
    However, the Registrant’s enforcement actions have not
    stopped the imitation and counterfeit of the Registrant’s
    merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and
    counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods remain available in
    many markets. In recent years, there has been an increase in the
    availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry,
    in various markets by street vendors and small retailers, as
    well as on the Internet. The continued sale of counterfeit
    merchandise could have an adverse effect on the
    TIFFANY & CO. brand by undermining Tiffany’s
    reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less
    desirable to consumers of luxury goods. Damage to the brand
    would result in lost sales and profits.


 


    (viii) Risk: that the Registrant will be unable to lease
    sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations.


 


    The Registrant, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has
    established its retail presence in choice store locations. If
    the Registrant cannot secure and retain locations on suitable
    terms in prime and desirable luxury shopping locations, its
    expansion plans, sales and profits will be jeopardized.


 


    In Japan, many of the retail locations are located in department
    stores. TIFFANY & CO. boutiques located in department
    stores in Japan represented 79% of net sales in Japan and 15% of
    consolidated net sales in Fiscal 2008. In recent years, the
    Japanese department store industry has, in general, suffered
    declining sales and there is a risk that such financial
    difficulties will force further consolidations or store
    closings. Should one or more Japanese department store operators
    elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a
    TIFFANY & CO. boutique, the Registrant’s
    sales and profits would be reduced while alternate premises were
    being obtained. The Registrant’s commercial relationships
    with department stores in Japan, and their abilities to continue
    as leading department store operators, have been and will
    continue to be substantial factors in the Registrant’s
    continued success in Japan.


 


    (ix) Risk: that the Registrant’s business is dependent
    upon the distinctive appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand.


 


    The TIFFANY & CO. brand’s association with
    quality, luxury and exclusivity is integral to the success of
    the Registrant’s business. The Registrant’s expansion
    plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise
    development, production and management support the brand’s
    appeal. Consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and
    positioning of the TIFFANY & CO. brand, as well as
    market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by
    diminishing the distinctive appeal of the TIFFANY &
    CO. brand and tarnishing its image. This would result in lower
    sales and profits.


 


    (x) Risk: that the current volatile global economy may have
    a material adverse effect on the Registrant’s liquidity and
    capital resources.


 


    U.S. and global credit and equity markets have recently
    undergone significant disruption, making it difficult for many
    businesses, including the Registrant, to obtain financing on
    acceptable terms. A prolonged downturn in the economy, extending
    further than those included in management’s projections,
    could have an effect on the Registrant’s cost of borrowing,
    could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing
    financing, and could make it more difficult for the Registrant
    to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing
    long-term obligations. In addition, increased disruption in the
    markets could lead to the failure of financial institutions. If
    any of the banks participating in the Registrant’s
    revolving credit facility were to declare bankruptcy, the
    Registrant would no longer have access to those committed funds.


 

    TIFFANY & CO.
    




    K - 18
    




 




    Further deterioration in the stock market could continue to
    negatively impact the valuation of pension plan assets and
    result in increased minimum funding requirements.






 




    
    



    
    Item 1B