.  Risk Factors.As is the case for any retailer, the Company's success in achieving its objectives and expectations is dependent upon general economic conditions, competitive conditions and consumer attitudes. However, certain factors are specific to the Company and/or the markets in which it operates. The following "risk factors" are specific to the Company; these risk factors affect the likelihood that the Company will achieve the objectives and expectations communicated by management:(i) Challenging global economic conditions and related low levels of consumer confidence over a prolonged period of time could adversely affect the Company's sales and earnings.As a retailer of goods which are discretionary purchases, the Company's sales results are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence. Consumer confidence is affected by general business conditions; changes in the market value of securities and real estate; inflation; interest rates and the availability of consumer credit; tax rates; and expectations of future economic conditions and employment prospects.TIFFANY & CO.K-13Table of ContentsConsumer spending for discretionary goods generally declines during times of falling consumer confidence, which negatively affects the Company's sales and earnings because of its cost base and inventory investment.Certain competitors may react to such conditions by reducing retail prices and promoting such reductions; such reductions and/or inventory liquidations can have a short-term adverse effect on the Company's sales, especially given the Company's policy of not engaging in price promotional activity.The Company has invested in and operates a significant number of stores in Greater China and anticipates continuing to do so. Any slowdown in the Chinese economy could have a negative impact on the sales and profitability of stores in Greater China as well as stores in other markets that serve Chinese tourists.    Uncertainty surrounding the current global economic environment makes it more difficult for the Company to forecast operating results. The Company's forecasts employ the use of estimates and assumptions. Actual results could differ from forecasts, and those differences could be material.(ii) Sales may decline or remain flat in the Company's fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the Holiday selling season.The Company's business is seasonal in nature, with the fourth quarter typically representing approximately one-third of annual net sales and a higher percentage of annual net earnings. Poor sales results during the fourth quarter would have an adverse effect on annual earnings and would result in higher inventories in the short-term.(iii) The Company conducts significant operations outside the United States, and the risks of doing business internationally could increase its costs, reduce its profits or disrupt its business. The Company generates a majority of its worldwide net sales outside the United States. It also has foreign manufacturing operations, and relies on certain foreign third-party vendors and suppliers. In addition, the Company maintains investments in, and has provided loans to, certain foreign suppliers. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks of doing business outside the United States, including: •the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments relating to investments, loans and operations, the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs and the impact of various anti-corruption and other laws affecting the activities of U.S. companies abroad;•potential negative consequences from changes in taxation policies or currency restructurings;•import and export licensing requirements and regulations, as well as unforeseen changes in regulatory requirements;•economic instability in foreign countries;•challenges inherent in oversight of foreign operations, systems and controls; for example, in the fourth quarter of 2015, management identified inaccuracies in our Japan segment relating to the timing of recognizing sales and related costs, as well as inventory, at period-ends. Management determined these inaccuracies did not materially affect our annual or quarterly financial statements, including the reported financial information for our Japan segment. Management is continuing to review the processes and personnel involved and related remediation; •uncertainties as to enforcement of certain contract and other rights;•the potential for rapid and unexpected changes in government, economic and political policies, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation; andTIFFANY & CO.K-14Table of Contents•inventory risk exposures.While these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower the Company's revenues, increase its costs, reduce its earnings or disrupt its business.(iv) Weakening foreign currencies would negatively affect the Company's sales and profitability. The Company operates retail stores in more than 20 countries outside of the U.S. and, as a result, is exposed to market risk from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including, among others, the Japanese Yen, Euro and British Pound. In 2015, sales in countries outside of the U.S. in aggregate represented more than half of the Company's net sales and earnings from operations. A continued weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar would require the Company to raise its retail prices in order to maintain its worldwide relative pricing structure, or reduce its profit margins in various locations outside of the U.S. Consumers in those markets may not accept significant price increases on the Company's goods; thus, there is a risk that a continued weakening of foreign currencies would result in reduced sales and profitability. In addition, a continued weakening in foreign currency exchange rates may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists in the various regions where the Company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its net sales and profitability.The reported results of operations of the Company's international subsidiaries are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars during the process of financial statement consolidation. If the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would decrease consolidated net sales and profitability. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." for a discussion of such impacts.(v) Regional instability and conflict could disrupt tourist travel and local consumer spending.Unsettled regional and global conflicts or crises such as military actions, terrorist activities, natural disasters, government regulations or other conditions may negatively affect spending by foreign tourists and local consumers in the various regions where the Company operates retail stores which would adversely affect its sales and earnings. For example, management believes that a significant reduction in tourist travel and spending in France and other markets within Europe in the fourth quarter of 2015 were a result of the tragic terrorist attacks that occurred in Paris, France during that quarter.(vi) Changes in the Company's product or geographic sales mix could affect the Company's profitability.The Company sells an extensive selection of jewelry and other merchandise at a wide range of retail price points that yield different gross profit margins. Additionally, the Company's geographic regions achieve different operating profit margins due to a variety of factors including product mix, store size and occupancy costs, labor costs, retail pricing and fixed versus variable expenses. If the Company's sales mix were to shift toward products or geographic regions that are significantly different than the Company's plans, it could have an effect, either positively or negatively, on its expected profitability.(vii) Increases in costs of diamonds and precious metals or reduced supply availability may adversely affect the Company's ability to produce and sell products at desired profit margins.Most of the Company's jewelry and non-jewelry offerings are made with diamonds, gemstones and/or precious metals. A significant increase in the costs or change in the supply of these commodities could adversely affect the Company's business, which is vulnerable to the risks inherent in the trade for such commodities. A substantial increase or decrease in the cost or supply of precious metals and/or high-quality rough and polished diamonds within the quality grades, colors and sizes that customers demand TIFFANY & CO.K-15Table of Contentscould affect, negatively or positively, customer demand, sales and gross profit margins. Additionally, should synthetic diamonds (diamonds manufactured but not naturally occurring) and/or treated diamonds (naturally occurring diamonds subject to treatment processes, such as irradiation) be offered in significant quantities and gain consumer acceptance, the supply of and prices for natural diamonds may be affected.(viii) Volatile global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and capital resources.The global economy and the credit and equity markets have undergone significant disruption in recent years. Any prolonged economic weakness could have an adverse effect on the Company's cost of borrowing, could diminish its ability to service or maintain existing financing and could make it more difficult for the Company to obtain additional financing or to refinance existing long-term obligations. In addition, any significant deterioration in the equity markets could negatively affect the valuation of pension plan assets and result in increased minimum funding requirements.(ix) The Company may be unable to lease sufficient space for its retail stores in prime locations.The Company, positioned as a luxury goods retailer, has established its retail presence in choice store locations. If the Company cannot secure and retain locations on suitable terms in prime and desired luxury shopping locations, its expansion plans, sales and earnings could be jeopardized. In Japan, many of the TIFFANY & CO. stores are located in department stores generating approximately 70% of the net sales in Japan, or 9% of worldwide net sales, in 2015. The Company also has TIFFANY & CO. stores located in department stores in other markets. Should one or more department store operators elect or be required to close one or more stores now housing a TIFFANY & CO. store, the Company's sales and earnings would be reduced while alternative premises were being obtained. The Company's commercial relationships with department stores, and their respective abilities to continue as leading department store operators, have been and will continue to affect the Company's business in Japan and the other markets.(x) The value of the TIFFANY & CO. and TIFFANY trademarks could decline due to third-party use and infringement.The TIFFANY & CO. and TIFFANY trademarks are assets that are essential to the competitiveness and success of the Company's business, and the Company takes appropriate action to protect them. The Company actively pursues those who produce or sell counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods through civil action and cooperation with criminal law enforcement agencies. However, use of the designation TIFFANY by third parties on related goods or services and the Company's failure or inability to protect against such use could adversely affect and dilute the value of the TIFFANY & CO. brand. Notwithstanding the general success of the Company's enforcement actions, such actions have not stopped the imitation and counterfeiting of the Company's merchandise or the infringement of the trademark, and counterfeit TIFFANY & CO. goods remain available in most markets. In recent years, there has been an increase in the availability of counterfeit goods, predominantly silver jewelry, on the Internet and in various markets by street vendors and small retailers. The continued sale of counterfeit merchandise could have an adverse effect on the TIFFANY & CO. brand by undermining the Company's reputation for quality goods and making such goods appear less desirable to consumers of luxury goods. Damage to the TIFFANY & CO. brand could result in lost sales and earnings.(xi) The Company's business is dependent upon the distinctive appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand.The TIFFANY & CO. brand's association with quality and luxury is integral to the success of the Company's business. The Company's expansion plans for retail and direct selling operations and merchandise TIFFANY & CO.K-16Table of Contentsdevelopment, production and management support the appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand. Consequently, poor maintenance, promotion and positioning of the TIFFANY & CO. brand, as well as market over-saturation, may adversely affect the business by diminishing the distinctive appeal of the TIFFANY & CO. brand and tarnishing its image. This could result in lower sales and earnings.In addition, adverse publicity regarding TIFFANY & CO. products or in respect of the Company's third-party vendors or the diamond or jewelry industry, and any media coverage resulting therefrom, may harm the TIFFANY & CO. brand and reputation, cause a loss of consumer confidence in the TIFFANY & CO. brand and the industry, and negatively affect the Company's results of operations. The considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by such incidents.(xii) A significant data security or privacy breach of the Company's information systems could affect its business.The protection of customer, employee and Company data is important to the Company, and the Company's customers and employees expect that their personal information will be adequately protected. In addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is becoming increasingly demanding, with evolving requirements in the various jurisdictions in which the Company does business. Although the Company has developed and implemented systems and processes that are designed to protect personal and Company information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Additionally, the Company’s increased use and reliance on web-based hosted (i.e., cloud computing) applications and systems for the storage, processing and transmission of information, including customer and employee information, could expose the Company, its employees and its customers to a risk of loss or misuse of such information. The Company’s efforts to protect personal and Company information may also be adversely impacted by data security or privacy breaches that occur at its third-party vendors. The Company cannot control these vendors and therefore cannot guarantee that a data security or privacy breach of their systems will not occur in the future. A significant breach of customer, employee or Company data could damage the Company's reputation, its relationship with customers and the TIFFANY & CO. brand and could result in lost sales, sizable fines, significant breach-notification costs and lawsuits as well as adversely affect results of operations. The Company may also incur additional costs in the future related to the implementation of additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security and privacy threats, to comply with state, federal and international laws that may be enacted to address those threats or to investigate or address potential or actual data security or privacy breaches.(xiii) Any material disruption of, or a failure to successfully implement or make changes to, information systems could negatively impact the Company's business.The Company is increasingly dependent on its information systems to operate its business, including in designing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing its products, as well as processing transactions, managing inventory and accounting for and reporting its results. Given the complexity of the Company’s global business, it is critical that the Company maintain the uninterrupted operation of its information systems. Despite the Company’s preventative efforts, its information systems may be vulnerable to damage, disruption or shutdown due to power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches or natural disasters. Damage, disruption or shutdown of the Company’s information systems may require a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the Company could suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim.In addition, in the ordinary course of business, the Company regularly evaluates and makes changes and upgrades to its information systems. The Company has commenced a multi-year effort to evaluate and, where appropriate, to upgrade and/or replace certain of its information systems, including systems for global customer relationship management, order management and inventory management. These system TIFFANY & CO.K-17Table of Contentschanges and upgrades can require significant capital investments and dedication of resources. While the Company follows a disciplined methodology when evaluating and making such changes, there can be no assurances that the Company will successfully implement such changes, that such changes will occur without disruptions to its operations or that the new or upgraded systems will achieve the desired business objectives. Any damage, disruption or shutdown of the Company's information systems, or the failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, such as those referenced above, could have a direct material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and could also affect the Company's reputation, its relationship with customers and the TIFFANY & CO. brand, which could result in reduced sales and profitability.(xiv) The loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the Company's centralized distribution centers could adversely affect its business and operations.The Company maintains two separate distribution centers in close proximity to one another in New Jersey. Both are dedicated to warehousing merchandise; one handles worldwide store replenishment and the other processes direct-to-customer orders. Although the Company believes that it has appropriate contingency plans, unforeseen disruptions impacting one or both locations for a prolonged period of time may result in delays in the delivery of merchandise to stores or in fulfilling customer orders.(xv) The loss or a prolonged disruption in the operation of the Company's internal manufacturing facilities could adversely affect its business and operations.The Company's internal manufacturing facilities produce approximately 60% of the merchandise sold by the Company. Any prolonged disruption to their operations would require the Company to seek alternate sources of production and could have a negative effect on inventory availability and sales until such sources are established.(xvi) There is no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively and successfully develop its new watch business.In April 2015, management introduced new TIFFANY & CO. brand watches, which have been designed, produced, marketed and distributed through certain of the Company's Swiss subsidiaries. The effective development and growth of a watch business has required and will continue to require additional resources and involves risks and uncertainties, including: (i) significant ongoing expenditures; (ii) the need to employ highly specialized and experienced personnel; (iii) new regulatory requirements; (iv) dependence on relatively small supply partners; (v) production and distribution inefficiencies; and (vi) the need to efficiently integrate operations with the Company’s existing business models. Sales of these new TIFFANY & CO. brand watches represented approximately 1% of worldwide net sales in 2015. While management anticipates an increase in these sales in 2016, it does not expect this new watch business to increase the Company's profitability in 2016. As with any new business, the Company is competing with businesses with stronger market positions and has invested and will continue to invest significant resources in marketing to build customer awareness and to establish product differentiation. Despite the Company's efforts, there is, however, no assurance that the Company will be able to effectively grow its new watch business or that such business will be successful in growing the Company's revenues or enhancing its profitability.TIFFANY & CO.K-18Table of Contents(xvii) If diamond mining and exploration companies to which the Company or its subsidiaries have provided financing were to experience financial difficulties, those funds might not be recovered, which would reduce the Company's earnings and could result in losing access to the mine's output.The Company and its subsidiaries may, from time to time, provide financing to diamond mining and exploration companies in order to obtain rights to purchase mining output. Mining operations are inherently risky, and often occur in regions subject to additional political, social and environmental risks, such as the resurgence of the Ebola virus in 2014 in certain regions of Africa. Given these risks, there is no assurance that the diamond mining and exploration companies subject to these arrangements will be able to meet their obligations to the Company under their financing agreements or related diamond supply agreements. If a diamond mining or exploration company defaults under its financing agreement, the Company would be required to evaluate whether it should take a period charge in respect of all or a portion of the financing, which would affect the Company's earnings. Additionally, the circumstances leading to a default under a diamond financing agreement could also result in the Company losing access to the mine's output under the related supply agreements.In 2015, the Company recorded $37.9 million of impairment charges, and related valuation allowances, associated with a $43.8 million financing arrangement with Koidu Limited (previously Koidu Holdings S.A.). Management will continue to evaluate the collectability of the financing arrangement, and it is possible that such ongoing evaluation may result in additional changes to management's assessment of collectability. While such changes in management's assessment would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial position or cash flows, it is possible that such a change in assessment could affect the Company's earnings in the period in which such a change were to occur.(xviii) The price of the Company’s common stock may periodically rise or fall based on the Company's achievement of earnings forecasts and investors' expectations.The Company's strategic planning process is designed to maximize its long-term strength, growth, and profitability, and not to achieve an earnings target in any particular fiscal period. Management believes that this longer-term focus is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. At the same time, however, the Company recognizes that, from time to time, it may be helpful to provide investors with guidance as to management's annual earnings forecast. If, or when, the Company announces actual results that differ from those that have been forecast by management or others, the market price of the Company's common stock could be adversely affected.The Company periodically returns value to its stockholders through common stock share repurchases and payment of quarterly cash dividends. The market price of the Company's common stock could be adversely affected if the Company’s share repurchase activity and/or cash dividend rate differs from investors' expectations.(xix) If the Company is unable to effectively anticipate and respond to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, the Company's sales and profitability could be adversely affected.The Company's continued success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences for jewelry and other luxury goods, attitudes towards the global jewelry industry as a whole, as well as the manner and locations in which consumers purchase such goods. The Company recognizes that consumer tastes cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to change, which is compounded by the expanding use of digital and social media by consumers and the speed by which information and opinions are shared. In addition, approximately 75% of the Company's stores are located within luxury department stores and shopping malls and benefit from the ability of those locations to generate consumer traffic. A substantial decline in department store and/or mall traffic may negatively impact the Company's ability to maintain or increase its sales in existing stores, as well as its ability to open new stores. If the Company is unable to anticipate and respond in a TIFFANY & CO.K-19Table of Contentstimely and cost-effective manner to changes in consumer preferences and shopping patterns, the Company’s sales and profitability could be adversely impacted.Item 1B