ITEM 1A.  
    

    
    Risk Factors
    






 

 


    The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our
    business and should be considered carefully, in connection with
    all of the other information set forth in this annual report on
    Form 10-K.
    In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary
    statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995.


 

 


    Our disclosure and analysis in this 2006
    Form 10-K
    and in our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders contain some
    forward-looking statements, including some of the statements
    made under Item 1, “Business,” Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 8,
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and in
    our 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders under “Letter to
    Shareholders” and “Financial Graphs.” From time
    to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other
    materials we release to the public as well as oral
    forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current
    expectations or forecasts of future events;



    
    11



 




    they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We
    have generally identified such statements by using words such as
    “anticipate,” “estimate,”
    “expect,” “project,” “intend,”
    “plan,” “believe,” “will,”
    “target,” “forecast” and similar expressions
    in connection with any discussion of future operating or
    financial performance. All statements that address activities,
    events or developments that we intend, expect or believe may
    occur in the future are forward-looking statements within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In
    particular, these include statements relating to future actions,
    future performance or results of current and anticipated sales,
    expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of
    contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results.


 

 


    We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be
    realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks,
    uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should
    known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should
    underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could
    differ materially from past results and those anticipated,
    estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you
    consider forward-looking statements.


 

 


    We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking
    statements, whether as a result of new information, future
    events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any
    further disclosures we make on related subjects in our
    Form 10-Q
    and 8-K
    reports to the SEC. The risks that follow, individually or in
    the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual
    results to differ materially from those stated or implied in
    forward-looking statements. You should understand that it is not
    possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently,
    you should not consider the following to be a complete
    discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.


 



    Our
    revenue growth could be adversely affected if we do not continue
    to expand our operations successfully.


 

 


    We have steadily expanded the number of chains and stores we
    operate and our selling square footage. Our revenue growth is
    dependent upon our ability to continue to expand successfully
    through new store openings as well as our ability to increase
    same store sales. Successful store growth requires selection of
    store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of
    attractive stores or store sites in such locations and
    negotiation of acceptable terms. Competition for desirable sites
    and increases in real estate, construction and development costs
    could limit our growth opportunities. Even if we succeed in
    opening new stores, these new stores may not achieve the same
    sales or profit levels as our existing stores. Further,
    expansion places demands upon us to manage rapid growth, and we
    may not do so successfully.


 



    Our
    quarterly operating results can be subject to significant
    fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or
    investors’ expectations.


 

 


    Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in
    the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the
    future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar
    to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short
    of either a prior quarter or investors’ expectations.
    Factors that could cause these quarterly fluctuations include
    some factors that are within our control such as the execution
    of our off-price buying; selection, pricing, flow and mix of
    merchandise; and inventory management including markon and
    markdowns; and some factors that are not within our control
    including actions of competitors; weather conditions; economic
    conditions and consumer confidence; and seasonality. In
    addition, if we do not repurchase, or are unable to repurchase,
    the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to our stock
    repurchase program, our earnings per share may be adversely
    affected. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense
    and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of
    sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a
    result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations
    for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce operating
    expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall
    would have a disproportionate effect on our net income for the
    quarter. We maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project
    sales and align expenses. If management fails to correctly
    forecast changes or appropriately adjust the business plan in
    light of results, our financial performance could be adversely
    affected.


 



    We may
    have difficulty extending our off-price model in new product
    lines, chains and geographic regions.


 

 


    We have expanded our original off-price model into different
    product lines, chains, geographic areas and countries. Our
    growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully execute our
    off-price retail apparel and home fashions concepts in new
    markets and geographic regions. If we are unable to successfully
    execute our concepts in these



    
    12



 




    new markets and regions, or if consumers there are not receptive
    to the concepts, our financial performance could be adversely
    affected.


 



    If we
    fail to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory
    management well, our business could be adversely
    affected.


 

 


    We purchase the majority of our inventory opportunistically with
    our buyers purchasing close to need. To drive traffic to the
    stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt
    nature of the off-price buying experience requires continued
    replenishment of fresh high quality, attractively priced
    merchandise. While opportunistic buying enables our buyers to
    buy at the right time and price, in the quantities we need and
    into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our
    buyers, subjecting us to risks on the timing, quantity and
    nature of inventory flowing to the stores. We rely on our
    expansive distribution infrastructure to support delivering
    goods to our stores on time. We must effectively and timely
    distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate mix and
    level of inventory and effectively manage pricing and markdowns.
    Failure to acquire and manage our inventory well and to operate
    our distribution infrastructure effectively could adversely
    affect our performance and our relationship with our customers.


 



    Our
    success depends upon our marketing, advertising and promotional
    efforts. If we are unable to implement them successfully, or if
    our competitors are more effective than we are, our revenue may
    be adversely affected.


 

 


    We use marketing and promotional programs to attract customers
    to our stores and to encourage purchases by our customers. We
    use various media for our promotional efforts, including print,
    television, database marketing and direct marketing. If we fail
    to choose the appropriate medium for our efforts, or fail to
    implement and execute new marketing opportunities, our
    competitors may be able to attract some of our customers and
    cause them to decrease purchases in our stores and increase
    purchases elsewhere, which might negatively impact our revenues.
    Changes in the amount and degree of promotional intensity or
    merchandising strategy by our competitors could cause us to have
    difficulties in retaining existing customers and attracting new
    customers.


 



    We have
    expended and expect to expend significant time and money as a
    result of the Computer Intrusion we suffered, and as a result of
    the Computer Intrusion, we could incur material losses, and our
    reputation and business could be materially harmed.


 

 


    We suffered the Computer Intrusion in which we believe that
    customer data were stolen. We are conducting an investigation of
    the Computer Intrusion. To date, we have been able to identify
    only some of the information that we believe was stolen.
    Deletions in the ordinary course of business prior to discovery
    of the Computer Intrusion and the technology used by the
    Intruder have, to date, made it impossible for us to determine
    much of the information we believe was stolen, and we believe
    that we may never be able to identify much of that information.
    Further, we cannot predict whether we will learn information in
    addition to or different from the information that we now
    believe about the Computer Intrusion and the data believed
    stolen.


 

 


    While we have been advised by law enforcement authorities that
    they are investigating fraudulent use of payment card
    information believed stolen from TJX, we do not know the extent
    of any fraudulent use of such information. Some banks and
    payment card companies have advised us that they have found what
    they consider to be preliminary evidence of possible fraudulent
    use of credit payment card information that may have been stolen
    from us, but they have not shared with us the details of their
    preliminary findings. We also do not know the extent of any
    fraudulent use of any of the personal information believed
    stolen. There could be significant fraudulent use of the
    information believed stolen from us.


 

 


    We have incurred capital and other costs to investigate and
    contain the Computer Intrusion, strengthen our computer security
    and systems, and communicate with customers, as well as legal,
    technical and other fees, and we expect to continue to incur
    significant costs for these purposes. Certain banks have sought,
    and other banks and payment card companies may seek, either
    directly against us or through claims against our acquiring
    banks as to which we may have an indemnity obligation, payment
    of or reimbursement for fraudulent card charges and operating
    expenses (such as costs of replacing
    and/or
    monitoring payment cards thought by them to have been placed at
    risk by the Computer Intrusion) that they believe they have
    incurred by reason of the Computer Intrusion. In addition,
    payment card companies and associations may seek to impose fines
    by reason of the Computer Intrusion.


 

 


    Various litigation has been or may be filed, and various claims
    have been or may be otherwise asserted, against us
    and/or our
    acquiring banks for which we may be responsible, on behalf of
    customers, banks, payment card companies



    
    13



 




    and shareholders seeking damages allegedly arising out of the
    Computer Intrusion and other related relief. We intend to defend
    such litigation and claims vigorously, although we cannot
    predict the outcome of such litigation and claims. Various
    governmental entities are investigating the Computer Intrusion,
    and although we are cooperating in such investigations, we may
    be subject to fines or other obligations. We cannot predict what
    actions such governmental entities will take and what the
    consequences will be for us. The ultimate resolution of such
    litigation, claims and investigations could have a material
    adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
    condition. Regardless of the merits and ultimate outcome of
    these matters, litigation and proceedings of this type are
    expensive to respond to and defend, and we could devote
    substantial resources and time to responding to and defending
    them.


 

 


    Beyond the charge we took in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007,
    we do not have enough information to reasonably estimate losses
    we may incur arising from the Computer Intrusion. These losses
    may include losses arising out of claims by payment card
    companies and banks, customers, shareholders and governmental
    entities; technical, legal, computer system and other expenses;
    and other potential liabilities, costs and expenses. Such losses
    could be material to our results of operations and financial
    condition. Further, the publicity associated with the Computer
    Intrusion could materially harm our business and relationships
    with customers.


 

 


    Since discovering the Computer Intrusion, we have taken steps
    designed to strengthen the security of our computer systems and
    protocols and have instituted an ongoing program to continue to
    do so. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we will not
    suffer a future data compromise. We rely on commercially
    available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide
    security for processing, transmission and storage of
    confidential customer information, such as payment card and
    personal information. We believe that the Intruder had access to
    the decryption algorithm for the encryption software we utilize.
    Further, the systems currently used for transmission and
    approval of payment card transactions, and the technology
    utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put
    payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the
    payment card industry, not by us. Improper activities by third
    parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and
    encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other
    events or developments may facilitate or result in a further
    compromise or breach of our computer systems. Any such further
    compromises or breaches could cause interruptions in our
    operations, damage to our reputation and customers’
    willingness to shop in our stores and subject us to additional
    costs and liabilities.


 



    Our
    business is subject to seasonal influences and a decrease in
    sales or margins during the second half of the year could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 

 


    Our business is subject to seasonal influences; we realize
    higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the
    year. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period could
    have a disproportionate effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    If we
    fail to anticipate consumer trends and preferences, our
    performance could suffer.


 

 


    Because our success depends on our ability to keep up with
    consumer trends, we take steps to address the risk that we will
    fail to anticipate consumer preferences. These include, for
    example, maintaining extensive contacts with vendors, with other
    retailers, as appropriate, and with the National Retail
    Federation, comparison shopping and monitoring fashion trends.
    Our buying departments and individual buyers monitor consumer
    trends and preferences in their respective product categories
    and areas. We focus on the demographics associated with the
    customer bases of our divisions and we monitor such demographics
    in locating new and remodeled stores. Nonetheless, we still face
    the risk that we will fail to effectively anticipate consumer
    trends and preferences, which failure could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 



    We
    experience risks associated with our substantial size and
    scale.


 

 


    We operate eight store chains in several countries. Some aspects
    of the businesses and operations of the chains are conducted
    with relative autonomy. The large size of our operations, our
    multiple businesses and the autonomy afforded to the chains
    increase the risk that systems and practices will not be
    implemented uniformly throughout our Company and that
    information will not be appropriately shared across different
    chains and countries.


 



    Unseasonable
    weather in the markets in which our stores operate could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 

 


    Customers’ willingness to shop and their demand for the
    merchandise in our stores are affected by adverse and
    unseasonable weather. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or
    rain storms, natural disasters, severe cold or heat or



    
    14



 




    extended periods of unseasonable temperatures in our markets
    could adversely affect our sales and increase markdowns.


 



    We
    operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to
    compete effectively.


 

 


    The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for
    customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and
    other important aspects of our business with many other local,
    regional and national retailers. We also face competition from
    alternative retail distribution channels such as catalogues,
    media and internet sites. Changes in the merchandising, pricing
    and promotional activities of those competitors and in the
    retail industry generally may adversely affect our performance.


 



    If we do
    not attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and
    other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying
    and management personnel, our performance could be adversely
    affected.


 

 


    Our performance is dependent on recruiting, developing, training
    and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other
    associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and
    management personnel. Many of our associates are in entry level
    or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover.
    The nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us
    to the risk of immigration law violations. Our ability to meet
    our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external
    factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates,
    minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. In the event
    of increasing wage rates, if we do not increase our wages
    competitively, our customer service could suffer because of a
    declining quality of our workforce, or our earnings could
    decrease if we increase our wage rates. In addition, certain
    associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and
    therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. Further, our
    off-price model limits the market for experienced buying and
    management personnel and requires us to do significant internal
    training and development. Changes that adversely impact our
    ability to attract and retain quality associates and management
    personnel could adversely affect our performance.


 



    If we
    engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest
    any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to
    additional risks.


 

 


    We have grown our business through mergers and acquisitions.
    Integrating new stores and concepts can be a difficult task. We
    may consider attractive opportunities to acquire new businesses
    or to divest any of our current business segments. Acquisition
    or divestiture activities may divert attention of our executive
    management team away from the existing businesses. We may do a
    less than optimal job of due diligence or evaluation of target
    companies. Divestiture also involves risks, such as the risk of
    future exposure on lease obligations. Failure to execute on
    mergers or divestitures in a satisfactory manner could have an
    adverse effect on our future business prospects or our financial
    performance in the future.


 



    If we are
    unable to operate information systems and implement new
    technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our
    sales or profitability could be reduced.


 

 


    The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our
    information systems, including our ability to operate them
    effectively and to successfully implement new technologies,
    systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. In
    addition, we must protect the confidentiality of our and our
    customers’ data. The failure of TJX’s information
    systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and
    operate them effectively could disrupt our business or subject
    us to liability and thereby harm our profitability. See also the
    risk factor above entitled “We have expended and expect
    to expend significant time and money as a result of the Computer
    Intrusion we suffered, and as a result of the Computer
    Intrusion, we could incur material losses, and our reputation
    and business could be materially harmed.”


 



    We depend
    upon strong cash flows from our operations to support new
    capital expansion, operations, debt repayment and stock
    repurchase program.


 

 


    Our business is dependent upon our operations generating strong
    cash flows to support our capital expansion requirements, our
    general operating activities and our stock repurchase programs
    and to fund debt repayment and the availability of financing
    sources. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash
    flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of
    financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could
    adversely affect our financial performance or our earnings per
    share growth.



    
    15



 





    Consumer
    spending is adversely affected by general economic and other
    factors, which are beyond our control, and could adversely
    affect our sales and operating results.


 

 


    Interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit
    availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and
    policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war,
    terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or
    threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and
    general economic and other factors have significant effects on
    consumer confidence and spending, which in turn affect sales at
    TJX and other retailers. These factors are beyond our control
    and could adversely affect our sales and performance.


 



    We are
    subject to import risks.


 

 


    Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our
    vendors and to a limited extent by us in many foreign countries.
    Imported merchandise is subject to various risks, including
    potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs,
    quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported
    merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery; and
    economic, political or other problems in countries from or
    through which merchandise is imported. Political or financial
    instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange
    rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating
    to international trade and imported merchandise are beyond our
    control and could affect the availability and the price of our
    inventory.


 



    Our
    expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent
    in foreign operations.


 

 


    We have a significant presence in Canada, the United Kingdom and
    Ireland, and have plans to expand into Germany in fiscal 2008.
    We may also seek to expand into other international markets in
    the future. Our foreign operations encounter risks similar to
    those faced by our U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in
    foreign operations, such as understanding the retail climate and
    trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign
    markets, complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and
    foreign currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse
    impact on our profitability.


 



    Changes
    in laws and regulations and accounting rules and principles
    could negatively affect our business operations and financial
    performance.


 

 


    Various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state
    or local laws, rules and regulations, any of which may change
    from time to time. Generally accepted accounting principles may
    change from time to time, as well. Regulatory developments and
    changes in accounting rules and principles could adversely
    affect our business operations and financial performance.


 



    We
    maintain internal controls over financial reporting, but they
    cannot provide absolute assurance that there will not be
    material errors in our financial reporting.


 

 


    We maintain a system of internal controls over financial
    reporting, but there are limitations inherent in internal
    control systems. If we are unable to maintain adequate and
    effective internal control over financial reporting, our
    financial performance could be adversely affected. A control
    system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide
    only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of
    the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control
    system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints
    and the benefit of controls must be appropriate relative to
    their costs.






 



    ITEM 1B