ITEM 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 




    The statements in this section describe the major risks to our
    business and should be considered carefully, in connection with
    all of the other information set forth in this annual report on
    Form 10-K.
    The risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are
    those that we think could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking
    statements.


 





    Global
    economic conditions may adversely affect our financial
    performance.


 




    In 2009, economies worldwide were in crisis, and global
    financial markets experienced extreme volatility, disruption and
    credit contraction. The volatility and disruption to the capital
    markets significantly adversely affected global economic
    conditions, resulting in additional significant recessionary
    pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income
    and actual and perceived wealth. Although there has been some
    recent improvement, continuing or worsened adverse economic
    conditions, including higher unemployment, energy and health
    care costs, interest rates and taxes and tighter credit, could
    continue to affect consumer confidence and discretionary
    consumer spending adversely and may adversely affect our sales,
    cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, renewed
    financial turmoil in the financial and credit markets could
    adversely affect our costs of capital and the sources of
    liquidity available to us and could increase our pension funding
    requirements.


 





    Fluctuations
    in foreign currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues
    and earnings.


 




    In addition to our U.S. businesses, we operate stores in
    Canada and Europe and plan to continue to expand our
    international operations. Sales made by our stores outside the
    United States are denominated in the currency of the country in
    which the store is located, and changes in foreign exchange
    rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these
    businesses into U.S. dollars for financial reporting
    purposes. Because of this, movements in exchange rates have had
    and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our
    net sales and earnings.


 




    Additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related hedging
    instruments to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange on
    merchandise margins of merchandise purchased by our
    international segments that is denominated in currencies other
    than their local currencies. In accordance with U.S. GAAP,
    we evaluate the fair value of these hedging instruments and make
    mark-to-market
    adjustments at the end of an accounting period. These
    adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is
    significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a
    significant impact on our earnings.


 




    In addition, changes in foreign exchange rates can increase the
    cost of inventory purchases by our businesses that are
    denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the
    business. When these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult
    for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can
    be adversely affected.


 




    Although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk
    management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in
    earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign
    exchange rates, we expect that foreign currency fluctuations
    could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and
    results of operations.



 



 


    9
    




Table of Contents






    Failure
    to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management
    could adversely affect our business.


 




    We purchase the majority of our apparel inventory and much of
    our home inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing
    close to need. To drive traffic to the stores and to increase
    same store sales, the treasure hunt nature of the off-price
    buying experience requires continued replenishment of fresh,
    high quality, attractively priced merchandise in our stores.
    While opportunistic buying provides our buyers the ability to
    buy at desirable times and prices, in the quantities we need and
    into market trends, it places considerable discretion in our
    buyers, subjecting us to risks on the timing, pricing, quantity
    and nature of inventory flowing to the stores. In addition, we
    base our purchases of inventory, in part, on sales forecasts. If
    our sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may
    experience higher inventory levels and decreased profit margins
    if we have excess or slow-moving inventory, or we may have
    insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, either of which
    could adversely affect our financial performance. In addition to
    acquiring inventory, we must properly execute our inventory
    management strategies through effectively allocating merchandise
    among our stores, timely and efficiently distributing inventory
    to stores, maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory
    in stores, appropriately changing the allocation of floor space
    of stores among product categories to respond to customer demand
    and effectively managing pricing and markdowns. Failure to
    execute our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory
    management well could adversely affect our performance and our
    relationship with our customers.


 





    Failure
    to continue to expand our operations successfully could
    adversely affect our financial results.


 




    We have steadily expanded the number of concepts and stores we
    operate. Our revenue growth is dependent, among other things,
    upon our ability to continue to expand successfully through new
    store openings as well as our ability to increase same store
    sales. Successful store growth requires acquisition and
    development of appropriate real estate including selection of
    store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of
    attractive stores or store sites in such locations and
    negotiation of acceptable terms. Competition for desirable
    sites, increases in real estate, construction and development
    costs and availability and costs of capital could limit our
    ability to open new stores in desirable locations in the future
    or adversely affect the economics of new stores. We may
    encounter difficulties in attracting customers in new markets
    for various reasons including customers’ lack of
    familiarity with our brands or our lack of familiarity with
    local customer preferences and cultural differences. New stores
    may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing
    stores, and new and existing stores in a market area may
    adversely affect each other’s sales and profitability.
    Further, expansion places significant demands on the
    administrative, merchandising, store operations, distribution
    and other organizations in our businesses to manage rapid
    growth, and we may not do so successfully.


 





    Failure
    to successfully identify customer trends and preferences to meet
    customer demand could negatively impact our
    performance.


 




    Because our success depends on our ability to meet customer
    demand, we take various steps to keep up with customer trends
    and preferences including contacts with vendors, monitoring
    product category and fashion trends and comparison shopping. Our
    flexible business model allows us to buy close to need and in
    response to consumer preferences and trends and to expand and
    contract merchandise categories in response to consumers’
    changing tastes. However, identifying consumer trends and
    preferences and successfully meeting customer demand is
    challenging, and we may not successfully do so, which could
    adversely affect our results.


 





    Our
    quarterly operating results can be subject to significant
    fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or
    investors’ expectations.


 




    Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at
    points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the
    future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates we plan
    and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors’
    expectations. If we fail to meet the expectations of securities
    analysts or investors, our share price may decline. Factors that
    could cause us not to meet our securities analysts’ or
    investors’ earnings expectations include some factors that
    are within our control, such as the execution of our off-price
    buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise; and inventory
    management including flow, markon and markdowns; and some
    factors that are not within our control, including actions of
    competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions, consumer
    confidence and seasonality. In addition, if we do not repurchase
    the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to our stock
    repurchase program, our earnings per share may be adversely
    affected. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense
    and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of
    sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a
    result, if sales in a particular



 


    10
    




Table of Contents





    quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not
    proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and
    therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate
    effect on our net income for the quarter. We maintain a
    forecasting process that seeks to project sales and align
    expenses. If we do not correctly forecast sales or appropriately
    adjust to actual results, our financial performance could be
    adversely affected.


 





    Our
    future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to
    expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price
    model in new product lines, chains and geographic
    regions.


 




    Our strategy is to continue to expand within existing markets
    and to expand to new markets and geographies. This growth
    strategy includes developing new ways to sell more or different
    merchandise within our existing stores, continued expansion of
    our existing chains in our existing markets and countries,
    expansion of these chains to new markets and countries, and
    development and opening of new chains, all of which entail
    significant risk. Our growth is dependent upon our ability to
    successfully extend our off-price retail apparel and home
    fashions concepts in these ways. Unsuccessful extension of our
    model could adversely affect future growth or financial
    performance.


 





    Failure
    to implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs
    successfully, or if our competitors are more effective with
    their programs than we are, may adversely affect our
    revenue.


 




    We use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to
    attract customers to our stores. We use various media for these
    programs, including print, television, database marketing and
    direct marketing. Some of our competitors may have substantially
    larger expenditures for their programs, which may provide them
    with a competitive advantage. There can be no assurance that we
    will be able to continue to execute our marketing, advertising
    and promotional programs effectively, and any failure to do so
    could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results
    of operations.


 





    Compromises
    of our data security could materially harm our reputation and
    business.


 




    In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store
    certain personal information from individuals, such as our
    customers and associates, and we process customer payment card
    and check information. We suffered an unauthorized intrusion or
    intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the
    “Computer Intrusion”) into portions of our computer
    system that process and store information related to customer
    transactions, discovered late in fiscal 2007 in which we believe
    customer data were stolen. We have taken steps designed to
    further strengthen the security of our computer system and
    protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to
    data security, consistent with a consent order with the Federal
    Trade Commission. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that
    we will not suffer a future data compromise. We rely on
    commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring
    to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of
    confidential information. Further, the systems currently used
    for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and
    the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of
    which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and
    controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. This is also
    true for check information and approval. Computer hackers may
    attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful,
    misappropriate personal information, payment card or check
    information or confidential Company business information. In
    addition, a Company associate, contractor or other third party
    with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security
    measures in order to obtain such information may or
    inadvertently cause a breach involving such information.
    Advances in computer and software capabilities and encryption
    technology, new tools and other developments may increase the
    risk of such a breach. Any such compromise of our data security
    and loss of personal or business information could disrupt our
    operations, damage our reputation and customers’
    willingness to shop in our stores, violate applicable laws,
    regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional
    costs and liabilities which could be material.


 





    Our
    business is subject to seasonal influences; a decrease in sales
    or margins during the second half of the year could
    disproportionately adversely affect our operating
    results.


 




    Our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally
    realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of
    the year, which includes the
    back-to-school
    and year-end holiday seasons. Any decrease in sales or margins
    during this period could have a disproportionately adverse
    effect on our results of operations.



 



 


    11
    




Table of Contents






    We may
    experience risks associated with our substantial size and
    scale.


 




    We operate eight retail chains in the U.S., Canada and Europe.
    Some aspects of the businesses and operations of the chains are
    conducted with relative autonomy. The large size of our
    operations, our multiple businesses and the autonomy afforded to
    the chains increase the risk that systems and practices will not
    be implemented uniformly throughout our company and that
    information will not be appropriately shared across different
    chains and countries.


 





    Unseasonable
    weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our
    distribution centers are located could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 




    Adverse and unseasonable weather affects customers’
    willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our
    stores. Severe weather could also affect our ability to
    transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution
    centers. As a result, frequent, unusually heavy, unseasonable or
    untimely weather in our markets, such as snow, ice or rain
    storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable
    temperatures, could adversely affect our sales and increase
    markdowns.


 





    Our
    results may be adversely affected by serious disruptions or
    catastrophic events.


 




    Unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and
    epidemics, as well as natural disasters such as hurricanes,
    tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other adverse weather and
    climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States
    or abroad, could disrupt the operations of one or more of our
    vendors or could severely damage or destroy one or more of our
    stores or distribution facilities located in the affected areas.
    Our ability to receive products from our vendors or transport
    products to our stores could be adversely affected or we could
    be required to close stores or distribution centers in the
    affected areas or in areas served by the affected distribution
    center. As a result, our business could be adversely affected.


 





    We
    operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to
    compete effectively.


 




    The retail apparel and home fashion business is highly
    competitive. We compete with many other local, regional,
    national and international retailers that sell apparel, home
    fashions and other merchandise that we sell, whether in stores,
    through catalogues or media or over the internet. We compete on
    the basis of fashion, quality, price, value, merchandise
    selection and freshness, brand name recognition, service,
    reputation and store location. Other competitive factors that
    influence the demand for our merchandise include our
    advertising, marketing and promotional activities and the name
    recognition and reputation of our chains. If we fail to compete
    effectively, our sales and results of operations could be
    adversely affected.


 





    Failure
    to attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and
    other associates in appropriate numbers as well as experienced
    buying and management personnel could adversely affect our
    performance.


 




    Our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and
    retaining quality sales, distribution center and other
    associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and
    management personnel. Many of our associates are in entry level
    or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover.
    The nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us
    to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has
    increased in recent years. Our ability to meet our labor needs
    while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors
    such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage
    legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance
    costs and governmental labor and employment requirements. In the
    event of increasing wage rates, if we fail to increase our wages
    competitively, the quality of our workforce could decline,
    causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our
    wages could cause our earnings to decrease. In addition, certain
    associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and
    therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. Because of
    the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must do
    significant internal training and development for a substantial
    number of our associates. The market for retail management is
    highly competitive and, in common with other retailers, we face
    challenges in securing sufficient management talent. If we do
    not continue to attract and retain quality associates and
    management personnel, our performance could be adversely
    affected.



 



 


    12
    




Table of Contents






    If we
    engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest
    any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to
    additional risks.


 




    We have grown our business in part through mergers and
    acquisitions and may acquire new businesses or divest current
    businesses. Acquisition or divestiture activities may divert
    attention of management from operating the existing businesses.
    We may do a
    less-than-optimal
    job of evaluating target companies and their risks and benefits,
    and integration of acquisitions can be difficult and
    time-consuming. Acquisitions may not meet our performance and
    other expectations or may expose us to unexpected or
    greater-than-expected
    liabilities and risks. Divestiture also involves risks, such as
    the risks of exposure on lease obligations, obligations
    undertaken in the disposition and potential liabilities that may
    arise under law as a result of the disposition or the subsequent
    failure of the acquirer. Failure to execute on mergers or
    divestitures in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect our
    future results of operations and financial condition.


 





    Failure
    to operate information systems and implement new technologies
    effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or
    profitability.


 




    The efficient operation and successful growth of our business
    depends on our information systems, including our ability to
    operate them effectively and to select and implement new
    technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery
    systems successfully. The failure of our information systems to
    perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them
    effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to
    liability and thereby harm our profitability.


 





    We depend
    upon strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to
    fund our expansion, operations, interest and debt repayment,
    stock repurchases and dividends.


 




    Our business depends upon our operations to generate strong cash
    flow, and to some extent upon the availability of financing
    sources, to supply capital to fund our expansions, general
    operating activities, stock repurchases, dividends, interest and
    debt repayment. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient
    cash flows to support these activities or the lack of
    availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate
    terms when needed could adversely affect our financial
    performance including our earnings per share.


 





    General
    economic and other factors may adversely affect consumer
    spending, which could adversely affect our sales and operating
    results.


 




    Interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit
    availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and
    policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war,
    terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or
    threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and
    general economic, political and other factors beyond our control
    have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending.
    Consumer spending, in turn, affects sales at retailers, which
    may include TJX. Although we benefit from being an off-price
    retailer, these factors could adversely affect our sales and
    performance if we are not able to implement strategies to
    mitigate them promptly and successfully.


 





    Issues
    with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation,
    sales and financial results.


 




    Various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we
    do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise
    we sell in our stores. Regulations and standards in this area,
    including those related to the Consumer Product Safety
    Improvement Act of 2008 in the United States, may change from
    time to time. Our inability to comply on a timely basis with
    regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or
    penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial results. Issues with the quality and safety and
    genuineness of merchandise, regardless of our fault, or customer
    concerns about such issues, could cause damage to our reputation
    and could result in lost sales, uninsured product liability
    claims or losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and
    regulatory, civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which
    could have a material adverse effect on our financial results.



 



 


    13
    




Table of Contents






    We are
    subject to import risks associated with importing merchandise
    from abroad.


 




    Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our
    vendors and, to a limited extent, by us, in many foreign
    countries. As a result, we are subject to the various risks of
    doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from
    abroad, such as:


 






    
    
    



     
        — 

    
    potential disruptions in supply;




 



     
        — 

    
    changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export
    restrictions on imported merchandise;




 



     
        — 

    
    strikes and other events affecting delivery;




 



     
        — 

    
    consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise;




 



     
        — 

    
    product compliance with laws and regulations of the destination
    country;




 



     
        — 

    
    concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor
    rights and conditions in foreign countries where merchandise is
    produced;




 



     
        — 

    
    compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business
    practices, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices
    Act; and




 



     
        — 

    
    economic, political or other problems in countries from or
    through which merchandise is imported.





 


    Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs,
    currency exchange rates, labor conditions, transport capacity
    and costs, compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and
    regulations and other factors relating to international trade
    and imported merchandise beyond our control could affect the
    availability and the price of our inventory. Furthermore,
    although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to
    facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to
    doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from
    abroad, there can be no assurance that our associates,
    contractors, agents, vendors or other third parties with whom we
    do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our
    policies, which could adversely affect our operations or
    operating results.


 





    Our
    expanding international operations increasingly expose us to
    risks inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions.


 




    We have a significant retail presence in Canada and Europe, as
    well as buying offices around the world, and our goal as a
    global retailer is to continue to expand into other
    international markets in the future. Our foreign operations
    encounter risks similar to those faced by our
    U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign
    operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends,
    local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets,
    complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and foreign
    currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our
    profitability.


 





    Our
    results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price
    of oil.


 




    Prices of oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past.
    Fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation
    costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and
    costs to purchase our products from suppliers. Continued
    volatility in oil prices could adversely affect consumer
    spending and demand for our products and increase our operating
    costs, both of which could have an adverse effect on our
    performance.


 





    Failure
    to comply with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes
    in existing laws and regulations could negatively affect our
    business operations and financial performance.


 




    We are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws,
    rules and regulations in the United States and abroad, any of
    which may change from time to time, as well as orders and
    assurances. If we fail to comply with these laws, rules,
    regulations and orders, we may be subject to fines or other
    penalties, which could materially adversely affect our
    operations and our financial results and condition. We must also
    comply with new and changing laws. Further, U.S. GAAP may
    change from time to time, and these changes could have material
    effects on our reported financial results and condition. In
    addition, there have been a large number of new legislative and
    regulatory initiatives and reforms introduced in the U.S., and
    the initiatives and reforms that have been and may be enacted
    may increase our costs.



 



 


    14
    




Table of Contents






    Our
    results may be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of
    litigation and other legal proceedings.


 




    We are periodically involved in various legal proceedings, which
    may involve local state and federal government inquiries and
    investigations; tax, employment, real estate, tort, consumer
    litigation and intellectual property litigation; or other
    disputes. In addition, we may be subject to investigations and
    other proceedings by regulatory agencies, including, but not
    limited to, consumer protection laws, advertising regulations,
    escheat and employment and wage and hour regulations. Results of
    legal and regulatory proceedings cannot be predicted with
    certainty and may differ from reserves we make estimating the
    probable outcome. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both
    time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause
    significant expense and diversion of management attention. Legal
    and regulatory proceedings and investigations could expose us to
    significant defense costs, fines, penalties and liability to
    private parties and governmental entities for monetary
    recoveries and other amounts and attorneys’ fees
    and/or
    require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which
    could have a material adverse effect on our business and results
    of operations.


 





    Our real
    estate leases generally obligate us for long periods, which
    subjects us to various financial risks.


 




    We lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for
    long terms and either own or lease for long periods our primary
    distribution centers and administrative offices. Accordingly, we
    are subject to the risks associated with owning and leasing real
    estate. While we have the right to terminate some of our leases
    under specified conditions by making specified payments, we may
    not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would
    like to do so. If we decide to close stores, we may be required
    to continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases,
    which may include, among other things, paying rent and operating
    expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying to
    exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of
    these obligations may be expensive. When we assign or sublease
    leases, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the
    assignee or sublessee does not perform. In addition, when leases
    expire, we may be unable to negotiate renewals, either on
    commercially acceptable terms or at all, which could cause us to
    close stores.


 





    Our stock
    price may fluctuate based on market expectations.


 




    The public trading of our stock is based in large part on market
    expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we
    will achieve certain levels of net income. If the securities
    analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or
    lower their projections for future growth and financial
    performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop. In
    addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet
    the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would
    likely decline. The decrease in the stock price may be
    disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance.



 



 


    15
    




Table of Contents






    Tax
    matters could adversely affect our results of operations and
    financial condition.


 




    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes
    and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected
    by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before
    taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower
    statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries
    with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of
    deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in U.S. tax
    legislation and regulation, foreign tax laws, regulations and
    treaties, exposure to additional tax liabilities, changes in
    accounting principles and interpretations relating to tax
    matters, which could adversely impact our results of operations
    and financial condition in future periods. In addition, we are
    subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns
    by federal, state and local tax authorities in the U.S. and
    foreign countries, such authorities may challenge positions we
    take, and we are engaged in various proceedings with such
    authorities with respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies
    and refunds, and the results of these examinations, judicial
    proceedings or as a result of the expiration of statute of
    limitations in specific jurisdictions. We regularly assess the
    likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations
    to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes.
    However, it is possible that the actual results of proceedings
    with tax authorities and in courts, changes in facts, expiration
    of statutes of limitations or other resolutions of tax positions
    will differ from the amounts we have accrued in either a
    positive or a negative manner, which could materially affect our
    effective income tax rate in a given financial period, the
    amount of taxes we are required to pay and our results of
    operations.


 











    
    



    
    ITEM 1B