ITEM 1A. RISK
    FACTORS


 


    The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our
    business and should be considered carefully, in connection with
    all of the other information set forth in this annual report on
    Form 10-K.
    In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary
    statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995.


 


    Our disclosure and analysis in this 2007
    Form 10-K
    and in our 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders contain some
    forward-looking statements, including some of the statements
    made under Item 1, “Business,” Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 8,
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” and in
    our 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders under “Letter to
    Shareholders” and “Financial Graphs.” From time
    to time, we also provide forward-looking statements in other
    materials we release to the public as well as oral
    forward-looking statements. Such statements give our current
    expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate
    strictly to historical or current facts. We have generally
    identified such statements by using words such as
    “anticipate,” “estimate,”
    “expect,” “project,” “intend,”
    “plan,” “believe,” “will,”
    “target,” “forecast” and similar expressions
    in connection with any discussion of future operating or
    financial performance. All statements that address activities,
    events or developments that we intend, expect or believe may
    occur in the future are forward-looking statements within the
    meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In
    particular, these include statements relating to future actions,
    future performance or results of current and anticipated sales,
    expenses, interest rates, foreign exchange rates, the outcome of
    contingencies, such as legal proceedings, and financial results.


 


    We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be
    realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks,
    uncertainties and potentially inaccurate assumptions. Should
    known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should
    underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could
    differ materially from past results and those anticipated,
    estimated or projected. You should bear this in mind as you
    consider forward-looking statements.


 


    We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking
    statements, whether as a result of new information, future
    events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any
    further disclosures we make on related subjects in our
    Form 10-Q
    and 8-K
    reports to the SEC. The risks that follow, individually or in
    the aggregate, are those that we think could cause our actual
    results to differ materially from those stated or implied in
    forward-looking statements. You should understand that it is not
    possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently,
    you should not consider the following to be a complete
    discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.


 



    Our
    revenue growth could be adversely affected if we do not continue
    to expand our operations successfully.


 


    We have steadily expanded the number of chains and stores we
    operate and our selling square footage. Our revenue growth is
    dependent upon our ability to continue to expand successfully
    through new store openings as well as our ability to increase
    same store sales. Successful store growth requires selection of
    store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of
    attractive stores or store sites in such locations and
    negotiation of acceptable terms. Competition for desirable sites
    and increases in real estate, construction and development costs
    could limit our growth opportunities.



    
    7



Table of Contents




    Even if we succeed in opening new stores, these new stores may
    not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing
    stores. Further, expansion places demands upon us to manage
    rapid growth, and we may not do so successfully.


 



    Our
    quarterly operating results can be subject to significant
    fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or
    investors’ expectations.


 


    Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in
    the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the
    future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar
    to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short
    of either a prior quarter or investors’ expectations. If we
    fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or
    investors, our share price may decline. Factors that could cause
    us not to meet analysts’ earnings expectations include some
    factors that are within our control, such as the execution of
    our off-price buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise;
    and inventory management including flow, markon and markdowns;
    and some factors that are not within our control, including
    actions of competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions
    and consumer confidence, and seasonality. In addition, if we do
    not repurchase the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to
    our stock repurchase programs, our earnings per share may be
    adversely affected. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent
    expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the
    amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term.
    As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below
    expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce
    operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales
    shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income
    for the quarter. We maintain a forecasting process that seeks to
    project sales and align expenses. If we do not correctly
    forecast sales or appropriately adjust to actual results, our
    financial performance could be adversely affected.


 



    Our
    future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to
    expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price
    model in new product lines, chains and geographic
    regions.


 


    Our plans for the future require us to continue to expand
    rapidly within existing and new markets and geographies. Our
    growth strategy includes developing new ways to sell more
    merchandise within our existing stores, continued expansion of
    our existing chains in our existing markets and countries,
    expansion of these chains to new markets and countries, and
    development and opening of new concepts, all of which entail
    significant risk. Our growth is dependent upon our ability to
    successfully extend our off-price retail apparel and home
    fashions concepts in these ways. If we are unable to
    successfully do so, our future growth or financial performance
    could be adversely affected.


 



    If we
    fail to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory
    management well, our business could be adversely
    affected.


 


    We purchase the majority of our inventory opportunistically with
    our buyers purchasing close to need. To drive traffic to the
    stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt
    nature of the off-price buying experience requires continued
    replenishment of fresh high quality, attractively priced
    merchandise in our stores. While opportunistic buying enables
    our buyers to buy at the right time and price, in the quantities
    we need and into market trends, it places considerable
    discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks on the timing,
    quantity and nature of inventory flowing to the stores. We rely
    on our expansive distribution infrastructure to support
    delivering goods to our stores on time. We must effectively and
    timely distribute inventory to stores, maintain an appropriate
    mix and level of inventory and effectively manage pricing and
    markdowns. We regularly change the allocation of floor space
    within our stores among product categories in response to
    demand. Failure to execute our opportunistic inventory buying
    and inventory management well could adversely affect our
    performance and our relationship with our customers.


 



    If we do
    not implement our marketing, advertising and promotional
    programs successfully, or if our competitors are more effective
    than we are, our revenue may be adversely affected.


 


    We use marketing and promotional programs as one of the ways we
    attract customers to our stores. We use various media for our
    promotional efforts, including print, television, database
    marketing and direct marketing. Some of our competitors may have
    substantially larger marketing budgets, which may provide them
    with a competitive advantage. There can be no assurance as to
    our continued ability to effectively execute our marketing and
    promotional programs, and any failure to do so could have a
    material effect on our revenue and results of operations.



    
    8



Table of Contents





    Our
    actual losses arising from the Computer Intrusion could exceed
    our reserve for our estimated probable losses, and our
    reputation and business could be materially harmed as a result
    of any future data breach.


 


    We suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such
    intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the Computer Intrusion)
    into portions of our computer system that process and store
    information related to customer transactions, which was
    discovered during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and in which
    we believe that customer data were stolen. Various litigation
    has been or may be filed, and various claims have been or may be
    otherwise asserted, against us
    and/or our
    acquiring banks for which we may be responsible relating to the
    Computer Intrusion. We have settled some litigation and claims
    and while we intend to defend the remaining litigation and
    claims vigorously, we cannot predict the outcome of such
    litigation and claims. Various governmental entities are
    investigating the actions of the Company with respect to the
    Computer Intrusion. Although a number of governmental
    investigations have been completed, we cannot predict what
    actions the governmental entities in the remaining
    investigations will take and what the consequences will be for
    us. We have recorded a reserve that reflects our estimation of
    probable losses arising from the Computer Intrusion in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. While
    this reserve represents our best estimation of total, potential
    cash liabilities from pending litigation, proceedings,
    investigations and other claims, as well as legal and other
    costs and expenses, arising from the Computer Intrusion, there
    is no assurance that our actual losses will not be greater.


 


    Since discovering the Computer Intrusion, we have taken steps
    designed to strengthen the security of our computer systems and
    protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to
    data security. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that we
    will not suffer a future data compromise. We rely on
    commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring
    to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of
    confidential customer information, such as payment card and
    personal information. Further, the systems currently used for
    transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and the
    technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which
    can put payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled
    by the payment card industry, not by us. Improper activities by
    third parties, advances in computer and software capabilities
    and encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other
    events or developments may facilitate or result in a further
    compromise or breach of our computer systems. Any such further
    compromises or breaches could cause interruptions in our
    operations, damage to our reputation and customers’
    willingness to shop in our stores and subject us to additional
    costs and liabilities.


 



    Our
    business is subject to seasonal influences and a decrease in
    sales or margins during the second half of the year could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Our business is subject to seasonal influences; we realize
    higher levels of sales and income in the second half of the
    year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday
    season. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period
    could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    If we
    fail to anticipate consumer trends and preferences, our
    performance could suffer.


 


    Because our success depends on our ability to keep up with
    consumer trends, we take steps to address the risk that we will
    fail to anticipate consumer preferences. These include, for
    example, maintaining extensive contacts with vendors, with other
    retailers, as appropriate, and with the National Retail
    Federation, comparison shopping and monitoring fashion trends.
    Our buying departments and individual buyers monitor consumer
    trends and preferences in their respective product categories
    and areas. We focus on the demographics associated with the
    customer bases of our divisions and we monitor such demographics
    in locating new and remodeled stores. Opportunistic buying close
    to need helps us respond to consumer preferences and trends.
    Nonetheless, we still face the risk that we will fail to
    effectively anticipate consumer trends and preferences, which
    could adversely affect our results.


 



    We
    experience risks associated with our substantial size and
    scale.


 


    We operate eight store chains in several countries. Some aspects
    of the businesses and operations of the chains are conducted
    with relative autonomy. The large size of our operations, our
    multiple businesses and the autonomy afforded to the chains
    increase the risk that systems and practices will not be
    implemented uniformly throughout our Company and that
    information will not be appropriately shared across different
    chains and countries.


 



    Unseasonable
    weather in the markets in which our stores operate could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Customers’ willingness to shop and their demand for the
    merchandise in our stores are affected by adverse and
    unseasonable weather. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or
    rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of
    unseasonable temperatures in our markets could adversely affect
    our sales and increase markdowns. In addition, natural



    
    9



Table of Contents




    disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a
    combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or
    destroy one or more of our stores or facilities located in the
    affected areas, thereby disrupting our business operations.


 



    We
    operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to
    compete effectively.


 


    The retail business is highly competitive. We compete for
    customers, associates, locations, merchandise, services and
    other important aspects of our business with many other local,
    regional and national retailers. In addition to other retail
    stores, we also face competition from other retail distribution
    channels such as catalogues, media and internet sites.
    Competition is characterized by many factors, including price,
    value, quality, brand names, merchandise assortment,
    advertising, marketing and promotional activities, service,
    location, reputation and credit availability. If we are not able
    to compete effectively with regard to these factors, our results
    of operations could be adversely affected.


 



    If we do
    not attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and
    other associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying
    and management personnel, our performance could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Our performance is dependent on recruiting, developing, training
    and retaining quality sales, distribution center and other
    associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and
    management personnel. Many of our associates are in entry level
    or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover.
    The nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us
    to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has
    increased in recent years. Our ability to meet our labor needs
    while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors
    such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage
    legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance
    costs and state labor and employment requirements. In the event
    of increasing wage rates, if we do not increase our wages
    competitively, our customer service could suffer because of a
    declining quality of our workforce, or our earnings could
    decrease if we increase our wage rates. In addition, certain
    associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and
    therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. Because of
    the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must do
    significant internal training and development. The market for
    retail management is highly competitive and, in common with
    other retailers, we face challenges in securing sufficient
    management talent. Changes that adversely impact our ability to
    attract and retain quality associates and management personnel
    could adversely affect our performance.


 



    If we
    engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest
    any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to
    additional risks.


 


    We have grown our business in part through mergers and
    acquisitions. Integrating new stores and concepts can be a
    difficult task. We may consider opportunities to acquire new
    businesses or to divest any of our current business segments.
    Acquisition or divestiture activities may divert attention of
    our executive management team away from the existing businesses.
    We may do a less than optimal job of due diligence or evaluation
    of target companies. Divestiture also involves risks, such as
    the risk of future exposure on lease obligations. Failure to
    execute on mergers or divestitures in a satisfactory manner
    could have an adverse effect on our future business prospects or
    our financial performance in the future.


 



    If we are
    unable to operate information systems and implement new
    technologies effectively, our business could be disrupted or our
    sales or profitability could be reduced.


 


    The efficient operation of our business is dependent on our
    information systems, including our ability to operate them
    effectively and to successfully implement new technologies,
    systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery systems. In
    addition, we must protect the confidentiality of data of our
    Company, our associates, our customers and other third parties.
    The failure of our information systems to perform as designed or
    our failure to implement and operate them effectively could
    disrupt our business or subject us to liability and thereby harm
    our profitability.


 



    We depend
    upon strong cash flows from our operations to support new
    capital expansion, operations, debt repayment and stock
    repurchase program.


 


    Our business is dependent upon our operations generating strong
    cash flows to support our capital expansion requirements, our
    general operating activities and our stock repurchase programs
    and to fund debt repayment and the availability of financing
    sources. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient cash
    flows to support these activities or the lack of availability of
    financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate terms could
    adversely affect our financial performance or our earnings per
    share growth.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Consumer
    spending is adversely affected by general economic and other
    factors, which are beyond our control, and could adversely
    affect our sales and operating results.


 


    Interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit
    availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and
    policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war,
    terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or
    threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and
    general economic, political and other factors beyond our control
    have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending.
    Consumer spending can, in turn, affect sales at retailers,
    including TJX. These factors beyond our control could adversely
    affect our sales and performance.


 



    Issues
    with merchandise quality or safety could result in damage to our
    reputation, sales or financial results.


 


    Merchandise we sell in our stores is subject to regulation of
    and regulatory standards set by various governmental authorities
    with respect to quality and safety. Regulations and standards in
    this area may change from time to time, and substantial
    additional regulations and standards have been proposed. Our
    inability to comply on a timely basis with regulatory
    requirements could result in significant fines or penalties,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    results. Issues with the quality and safety of merchandise we
    sell in our stores, regardless of our fault, or customer
    concerns about such issues, could result in damage to our
    reputation, lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or
    losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our financial results.


 



    We are
    subject to import risks associated with importing merchandise
    from abroad.


 


    Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our
    vendors and to a limited extent by us in many foreign countries.
    Imported merchandise is subject to various risks, including
    potential disruptions in supply, changes in duties, tariffs,
    quotas and voluntary export restrictions on imported
    merchandise, strikes and other events affecting delivery;
    consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise,
    particularly merchandise imported from the People’s
    Republic of China; and economic, political or other problems in
    countries from or through which merchandise is imported.
    Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs,
    currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other
    factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise
    are beyond our control and could affect the availability and the
    price of our inventory.


 



    Our
    expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent
    in foreign operations.


 


    We have a significant presence in Canada, the United Kingdom and
    Ireland, and have recently expanded into Germany. We may also
    seek to expand into other international markets in the future.
    Our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by
    our U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign
    operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends,
    local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets,
    complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and foreign
    currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our
    profitability.


 



    Litigation
    and changes in laws and regulations and accounting rules and
    principles could negatively affect our business operations and
    financial performance.


 


    Various aspects of our operations are subject to federal, state
    or local laws, rules and regulations, any of which may change
    from time to time. Generally accepted accounting principles may
    change from time to time, as well. In addition, we are regularly
    involved in various litigation matters that arise in the
    ordinary course of business. Litigation, regulatory developments
    and changes in accounting rules and principles could adversely
    affect our business operations and financial performance.


 



    We own
    and lease for long periods significant amounts of real estate,
    which subjects us to various financial risks.


 


    We lease virtually all of our store locations generally for long
    terms and either own or lease other real estate on which our
    primary distribution centers and administrative offices are
    located. Accordingly, we are subject to all of the risks
    associated with owning and leasing real estate. While we have
    the right to terminate some of our leases under specified
    conditions by making specified payments, we may not be able to
    cancel a particular lease. If an existing or future store is not
    profitable, and we decide to close it, we may be committed to
    perform certain obligations under the applicable lease
    including, among other things, paying the rent for the balance
    of the lease term. When we assign or sublease leased property,
    we can remain liable if the sublessee does not perform. In
    addition, as each of the leases expires, we may be unable to
    negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or
    at all, which could cause us to close stores in desirable
    locations.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Our stock
    price may fluctuate based on market expectations.


 


    The public trading of our stock is based in large part on market
    expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we
    will achieve certain levels of net income. If the securities
    analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or
    lower their projections for future growth and financial
    performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop. In
    addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet
    the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would
    likely decline. The decrease in the stock price may be
    disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance.


 



    Our
    results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price
    of oil.


 


    Prices of oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past. These
    fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation
    costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and
    costs to purchase our products from suppliers. A continued rise
    in oil prices could adversely affect consumer spending and
    demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both
    of which could have an adverse effect on our performance.







 



    ITEM 1B