ITEM 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 




    The statements in this Section describe the major risks to our
    business and should be considered carefully, in connection with
    all of the other information set forth in this annual report on
    Form 10-K.
    The risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are
    those that we think could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking
    statements.


 





     The
    adverse changes in global economic conditions and in financial
    and credit markets have adversely affected and could continue to
    adversely affect our financial performance.


 




    As widely reported, economies worldwide are in crisis, and
    global financial markets have been experiencing extreme
    volatility, disruption and credit contraction. The current
    volatility and disruption to the capital markets have reached
    unprecedented levels and have significantly adversely impacted
    global economic conditions and may continue to do so, resulting
    in additional significant recessionary pressures and declines in
    employment levels, disposable income and actual and perceived
    wealth. Adverse economic conditions continue to affect consumer
    confidence and discretionary consumer spending and have
    adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our
    sales, cash flows and results of operations. Additionally,
    adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets could
    adversely affect our costs of capital and the sources of
    liquidity available to us and have increased and could in the
    future increase our pension funding requirements. Finally, the
    effects and consequences of the current global economic crisis
    may not yet be known, which could potentially have a material
    adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, or
    otherwise negatively affect our business and financial results.


 





    Fluctuations
    in foreign currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues
    and earnings.


 




    In addition to our U.S. businesses, we operate stores in
    Canada, the U.K., Ireland and Germany. Sales made by our stores
    outside the United States are denominated in the currency of the
    country in which the store is located, and changes in foreign
    exchange rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings
    of these businesses into U.S. dollars for financial
    reporting purposes. Because of this, movements in exchange rates
    have had and are expected to continue to have a significant
    impact on our net sales and earnings.


 




    Additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related hedging
    instruments to mitigate the impact of foreign exchange on
    merchandise margins of merchandise purchased by our
    international segments that is denominated in currencies other
    than their local currencies. In accordance with generally
    accepted accounting principles, we evaluate the fair value of
    these hedging instruments and make mark-to-market adjustments at
    the end of an accounting period. These adjustments are of a much
    greater magnitude when there is significant volatility in
    currency exchange rates and may have a significant impact on our
    earnings.

 


    9
    




Table of Contents






    In addition, changes in foreign exchange rates can increase the
    cost of inventory purchases by one of our businesses that are
    denominated in a currency other than the local currency of that
    business. When these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult
    for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can
    be adversely affected. We expect that such changes may
    materially affect the gross margins of our Canada segment.


 




    Although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk
    management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in
    earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign
    exchange rates, we expect that foreign currency fluctuations
    could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and
    results of operations.


 





    Failure
    to execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management
    could adversely affect our business.


 




    We purchase the majority of our inventory opportunistically with
    our buyers purchasing close to need. To drive traffic to the
    stores and to increase same store sales, the treasure hunt
    nature of the off-price buying experience requires continued
    replenishment of fresh, high quality, attractively priced
    merchandise in our stores. While opportunistic buying enables
    our buyers to buy at opportune times and prices, in the
    quantities we need and into market trends, it places
    considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to risks on
    the timing, pricing, quantity and nature of inventory flowing to
    the stores. In addition, we base our purchases of inventory, in
    part, on sales forecasts. If our sales forecasts do not match
    customer demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and
    decreased profit margins if we have excess or slow-moving
    inventory, or we may have insufficient inventory to meet
    customer demand, either of which could adversely affect our
    financial performance. In addition to acquiring inventory, we
    must properly execute our inventory management strategies
    through effectively allocating merchandise among our stores,
    timely and efficiently distributing inventory to stores,
    maintaining an appropriate mix and level of inventory in stores,
    appropriately changing the allocation of floor space of stores
    among product categories to respond to customer demand and
    effectively managing pricing and markdowns. Failure to execute
    our opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management well
    could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with
    our customers.


 





    Failure
    to continue to expand our operations successfully could
    adversely affect our financial results.


 




    We have steadily expanded the number of concepts and stores we
    operate. Our revenue growth is dependent, among other things,
    upon our ability to continue to expand successfully through new
    store openings as well as our ability to increase same store
    sales. Successful store growth requires acquisition and
    development of appropriate real estate including selection of
    store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of
    attractive stores or store sites in such locations and
    negotiation of acceptable terms. Competition for desirable
    sites, increases in real estate, construction and development
    costs and availability and costs of capital could limit our
    ability to open new stores in desirable locations in the future
    or adversely affect the economics of new stores. When we open
    stores in new markets, we may encounter difficulties in
    attracting customers due to a lack of customer familiarity with
    our brand, our lack of familiarity with local customer
    preferences, and seasonal differences in the market. New stores
    may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing
    stores and may be adversely affected by the sales and
    profitability of existing stores in their market areas. Further,
    expansion places significant demands on the administrative,
    merchandising, store operations, distribution and other
    organizations in our businesses to manage rapid growth, and we
    may not do so successfully.


 





    Failure
    to successfully identify customer trends and preferences to meet
    customer demand could negatively impact our
    performance.


 




    Because our success depends on our ability to meet customer
    demand, we take various steps to keep up with consumer trends
    and preferences including contacts with vendors, monitoring
    product category and fashion trends and comparison shopping and
    actively monitoring fashion trends. Our opportunistic buying
    model allows us to buy close to need and in response to consumer
    preferences and trends. However, identifying consumer trends and
    preferences and successfully meeting customer demand is
    challenging, and these steps and our off-price buying may be
    insufficient to do so, which could adversely affect our results.

 


    10
    




Table of Contents







     Our
    quarterly operating results can be subject to significant
    fluctuations and may fall short of either a prior quarter or
    investors’ expectations.


 




    Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at
    points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the
    future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates similar
    to the growth rates achieved in recent years and may fall short
    of either a prior quarter or investors’ expectations. If we
    fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or
    investors, our share price may decline. Factors that could cause
    us not to meet analysts’ earnings expectations include some
    factors that are within our control, such as the execution of
    our off-price buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise;
    and inventory management including flow, markon and markdowns;
    and some factors that are not within our control, including
    actions of competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions
    and consumer confidence, and seasonality. In addition, if we do
    not repurchase the number of shares we contemplate pursuant to
    our stock repurchase program, our earnings per share may be
    adversely affected. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent
    expense and associate salaries, do not vary directly with the
    amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term.
    As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below
    expectations for that quarter, we may not proportionately reduce
    operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales
    shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income
    for the quarter. We maintain a forecasting process that seeks to
    project sales and align expenses. If we do not correctly
    forecast sales or appropriately adjust to actual results, our
    financial performance could be adversely affected.


 





     Our
    future performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to
    expand within our existing markets and to extend our off-price
    model in new product lines, chains and geographic
    regions.


 




    Our strategy is to continue to expand within existing markets
    and to expand to new markets and geographies. This growth
    strategy includes developing new ways to sell more or different
    merchandise within our existing stores, continued expansion of
    our existing chains in our existing markets and countries,
    expansion of these chains to new markets and countries, and
    development and opening of new chains, all of which entail
    significant risk. Our growth is dependent upon our ability to
    successfully extend our off-price retail apparel and home
    fashions concepts in these ways. Unsuccessful extension of our
    model could adversely affect future growth or financial
    performance.


 





     Failure
    to implement our marketing, advertising and promotional programs
    successfully, or if our competitors are more effective with
    their programs than we are, may adversely affect our
    revenue.


 




    We use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to
    attract customers to our stores. We use various media for these
    programs, including print, television, database marketing and
    direct marketing. Some of our competitors may have substantially
    larger expenditures for their programs, which may provide them
    with a competitive advantage. There can be no assurance that we
    will be able to continue to effectively execute our marketing,
    advertising and promotional programs, and any failure to do so
    could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results
    of operations.


 





     Our
    actual losses arising from the Computer Intrusion could exceed
    our reserve for our estimated probable losses, and our
    reputation and business could be materially harmed as a result
    of any future data breach.


 




    We suffered an unauthorized intrusion or intrusions (such
    intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the “Computer
    Intrusion”) into portions of our computer system that
    process and store information related to customer transactions,
    which was discovered late in fiscal 2007 and in which we believe
    that customer data were stolen. As a result we faced and
    continue to face litigation, claims and investigations. We have
    recorded a reserve that reflects our estimation of probable
    losses arising from the Computer Intrusion in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. While this reserve
    represents our best estimation of total, potential cash
    liabilities from litigation, proceedings, investigations and
    other claims, as well as legal and other costs and expenses,
    arising from the Computer Intrusion, there is no assurance that
    our actual losses will not be greater.


 




    Since discovering the Computer Intrusion, we have taken steps
    designed to further strengthen the security of our computer
    system and protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with
    respect to data security. Nevertheless, there can be no
    assurance that we will not suffer a future data compromise. We
    rely on commercially available systems,

 


    11
    




Table of Contents




    software, tools and monitoring to provide security for
    processing, transmission and storage of confidential customer
    information, such as payment card and personal information.
    Further, the systems currently used for transmission and
    approval of payment card transactions, and the technology
    utilized in payment cards themselves, all of which can put
    payment card data at risk, are determined and controlled by the
    payment card industry, not by us. Improper activities by third
    parties, advances in computer and software capabilities and
    encryption technology, new tools and discoveries and other
    events or developments may facilitate or result in a further
    compromise or breach of our computer system. Any such further
    compromises or breaches could cause interruptions in our
    operations, damage to our reputation and customers’
    willingness to shop in our stores, violation of applicable laws,
    regulations, orders and agreements, and subject us to additional
    costs and liabilities which could be material.


 





     Our
    business is subject to seasonal influences and a decrease in
    sales or margins during the second half of the year could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 




    Our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally
    realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of
    the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday
    seasons. Any decrease in sales or margins during this period
    could have a disproportionately adverse effect on our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 





     We
    experience risks associated with our substantial size and
    scale.


 




    We operate seven retail concepts in several countries. Some
    aspects of the businesses and operations of the concepts are
    conducted with relative autonomy. The large size of our
    operations, our multiple businesses and the autonomy afforded to
    the concepts increase the risk that systems and practices will
    not be implemented uniformly throughout our company and that
    information will not be appropriately shared across different
    concepts and countries.


 





    
    Unseasonable weather in the markets in which our stores operate
    or our distribution centers are located could adversely affect
    our operating results.


 




    Adverse and unseasonable weather affects customers’
    willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our
    stores. Frequent or unusually heavy snow, ice or rain storms,
    severe cold or heat or extended periods of unseasonable
    temperatures in our markets could adversely affect our sales and
    increase markdowns. In addition, natural disasters such as
    hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and earthquakes could severely
    damage or destroy one or more of our stores or distribution
    facilities located in the affected areas or result in the
    suspension of business in the affected areas or in areas served
    by the affected distribution center, thereby disrupting our
    business operations.


 





     We
    operate in highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to
    compete effectively.


 




    The retail business is highly competitive. We compete with many
    other local, regional, national and international retailers that
    sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise that we sell,
    whether in stores, through catalogs or media or over the
    internet. We compete on the basis of quality, price, value,
    merchandise selection and freshness, brand name recognition,
    service, reputation and store location. Other competitive
    factors that influence the demand for the merchandise we sell
    include our advertising, marketing and promotional activities
    and the name recognition and reputation of our chains. If we
    fail to compete effectively, our sales and results of operations
    could be adversely affected.


 





     Failure
    to attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and
    other associates in appropriate numbers as well as experienced
    buying and management personnel could adversely affect our
    performance.


 




    Our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and
    retaining quality sales, distribution center and other
    associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and
    management personnel. Many of our associates are in entry level
    or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover.
    The nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us
    to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has
    increased in recent years. Our ability to meet our labor needs
    while controlling labor costs is subject to external factors
    such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage
    legislation, changing demographics, health and other insurance
    costs and governmental labor and employment requirements. In the
    event of increasing wage rates, if we fail to increase our wages
    competitively, the quality of our workforce could decline,
    causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our
    wages could cause our earnings to decrease. In addition, certain
    associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and
    therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. Because of
    the distinctive nature of our off-price model,

 


    12
    




Table of Contents




    we must do significant internal training and development for a
    substantial number of our associates. The market for retail
    management is highly competitive and, in common with other
    retailers, we face challenges in securing sufficient management
    talent. Changes that adversely impact our ability to attract and
    retain quality associates and management personnel could
    adversely affect our performance.


 





     If we
    engage in mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest
    any of our current businesses, our business will be subject to
    additional risks.


 




    We have grown our business in part through mergers and
    acquisitions. We may consider opportunities to acquire new
    businesses or to divest current businesses. Acquisition or
    divestiture activities may divert attention of management from
    operating the existing businesses. We may do a less-than-optimal
    job of evaluating target companies and their risks and benefits,
    and integration of acquisitions can be difficult and
    time-consuming. Acquisitions may not meet our expectations or
    may expose us to unexpected or greater-than-expected
    liabilities. Divestiture also involves risks, such as the risks
    of exposure on lease obligations, obligations undertaken in the
    disposition and potential liabilities that may arise under law
    as a result of the disposition or the subsequent failure of the
    acquirer. Failure to execute on mergers or divestitures in a
    satisfactory manner could adversely affect our future results of
    operations and financial condition.


 





     Failure
    to operate information systems and implement new technologies
    effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or
    profitability.


 




    The efficient operation of our business depends on our
    information systems, including our ability to operate them
    effectively and to successfully select and implement new
    technologies, systems, controls and adequate disaster recovery
    systems. We must operate and implement these systems and
    technologies such that we protect the confidentiality of data of
    our Company, our associates, our customers and other third
    parties. The failure of our information systems to perform as
    designed or our failure to implement and operate them
    effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to
    liability and thereby harm our profitability.


 





     We
    depend upon strong cash flows from our operations to support new
    capital expansion, operations, debt repayment, stock repurchase
    program and dividends.


 




    Our business depends upon our operations to generate strong cash
    flows and upon the availability of financing sources to support
    our capital expansion requirements, general operating
    activities, stock repurchase program and dividends and to fund
    debt repayment. Our inability to continue to generate sufficient
    cash flows to support these activities or the lack of
    availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate
    terms could adversely affect our financial performance or our
    earnings per share growth.


 





     General
    economic and other factors adversely affect consumer spending,
    which could adversely affect our sales and operating
    results.


 




    Interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit
    availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and
    policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war,
    terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or
    threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and
    general economic, political and other factors beyond our control
    have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending.
    Consumer spending, in turn, affects sales at retailers, which
    could include TJX. These factors could adversely affect our
    sales and performance if we do not successfully implement
    strategies to mitigate them.


 





     Issues
    with merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation,
    sales or financial results.


 




    Various governmental authorities regulate the quality and safety
    of the merchandise we sell in our stores. Regulations and
    standards in this area, including those related to the recently
    enacted Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 in the
    United States, may change from time to time. Our inability to
    comply on a timely basis with regulatory requirements could
    result in significant fines or penalties, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial results. Issues with
    the quality and safety of merchandise we sell in our stores,
    regardless of our fault, or customer concerns about such issues,
    could cause damage to our reputation, lost sales, uninsured
    product liability claims or losses, merchandise recalls and
    increased costs, and regulatory, civil or criminal fines or
    penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial results.

 


    13
    




Table of Contents







     We are
    subject to import risks associated with importing merchandise
    from abroad.


 




    Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our
    vendors and to a limited extent by us in many foreign countries.
    As a result, we are subject to the various risks of doing
    business in foreign markets and importing merchandise from
    abroad, such as:


 






    
    
    



     
        — 

    
    potential disruptions in supply;




 



     
        — 

    
    changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export
    restrictions on imported merchandise;




 



     
        — 

    
    strikes and other events affecting delivery;




 



     
        — 

    
    consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise,
    particularly merchandise imported from the People’s
    Republic of China; and




 



     
        — 

    
    economic, political or other problems in countries from or
    through which merchandise is imported.





 


    Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs,
    currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other
    factors relating to international trade and imported merchandise
    could affect the availability and the price of our inventory.


 





     Our
    expanding international operations expose us to risks inherent
    in foreign operations.


 




    We have a significant retail presence in Canada, the United
    Kingdom and Ireland, and have recently expanded into Germany.
    Our goal is to continue to expand into other international
    markets in the future. Our foreign operations encounter risks
    similar to those faced by our U.S. operations, as well as
    risks inherent in foreign operations, such as understanding the
    retail climate and trends, local customs and competitive
    conditions in foreign markets, complying with foreign laws,
    rules and regulations, and foreign currency fluctuations, which
    could have an adverse impact on our profitability.


 





     Our
    results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the price
    of oil.


 




    Prices of oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past. These
    fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation
    costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and
    costs to purchase our products from suppliers. A continued rise
    in oil prices could adversely affect consumer spending and
    demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both
    of which could have an adverse effect on our performance.


 





     Changes
    in laws and regulations and outcomes of litigation and
    proceedings could negatively affect our business operations and
    financial performance.


 




    We are subject to federal, state, provincial or local laws,
    rules and regulations in the United States and abroad, any of
    which may change from time to time in ways which could
    materially adversely affect our operations and our financial
    results and condition. We are from time to time involved in
    litigation and proceedings, the outcomes of which if determined
    adversely to us could materially adversely affect our operations
    and our financial results and condition. In addition,
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in accordance
    with which we prepare our financial statements may change from
    time to time, and these changes could have material effects on
    our reported financial results and condition.


 





     We own
    and lease for long periods significant amounts of real estate,
    which subjects us to various financial risks.


 




    We lease virtually all of our store locations generally for long
    terms and either own or lease for long periods our primary
    distribution centers and administrative offices. Accordingly, we
    are subject to the risks associated with owning and leasing real
    estate. While we have the right to terminate some of our leases
    under specified conditions by making specified payments, we may
    not be able to terminate a particular lease if or when we would
    like to do so. If an existing or future store is not profitable,
    and we decide to close it, we may be committed to perform
    obligations under the applicable lease, including, among other
    things, paying rent and operating expenses for the balance of
    the lease term, or exercising rights to terminate, and the
    performance of any of these obligations may be expensive. When
    we assign or sublease leased property, we can remain liable on
    the lease obligations if the assignee or sublessee does not
    perform. In

 


    14
    




Table of Contents




    addition, when leases expire, we may be unable to negotiate
    renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all,
    which could cause us to close stores.


 





     Our
    stock price may fluctuate based on market
    expectations.


 




    The public trading of our stock is based in large part on market
    expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we
    will achieve certain levels of net income. If the securities
    analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or
    lower their projections for future growth and financial
    performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop. In
    addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet
    the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would
    likely decline. The decrease in the stock price may be
    disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance.


 











    
    



    
    ITEM 1B