Item 1A of this
    Form 10-K
    describe major risks to our business. A variety of factors
    including these risks could cause our actual results and other
    expectations to differ materially from the anticipated results
    or other expectations expressed, anticipated or implied in our
    forward-looking statements. Should known or unknown risks
    materialize, or should our underlying assumptions prove
    inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past
    results and those anticipated, estimated or projected in the
    forward-looking statements. You should bear this in mind as you
    consider forward-looking statements.


 




    Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the dates on
    which they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to
    update any forward-looking statement, whether to reflect new
    information, future events or otherwise. You are advised,
    however, to consult any further disclosures we may make in our
    future reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (‘SEC’), on our website, or otherwise.


 



 


    2




 













    PART I


 





 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1. 

    
    BUSINESS





 



 





 

 



    BUSINESS
    OVERVIEW


 




    The TJX Companies, Inc. (TJX) is the leading off-price apparel
    and home fashions retailer in the United States and worldwide.
    Our over 2,700 stores offer a rapidly changing assortment of
    quality, brand-name and designer merchandise at prices generally
    20% to 60% below department and specialty store regular prices,
    every day.


 




    Retail Concepts. We operate multiple off-price
    retail chains in the U.S., Canada and Europe which are known for
    their treasure hunt shopping experience and excellent values on
    fashionable, brand-name merchandise. Our stores turn their
    inventories rapidly relative to traditional retailers to create
    a sense of urgency and excitement for our customers which
    encourages frequent customer visits. With our flexible “no
    walls” business model, we can quickly expand and contract
    merchandise categories in response to consumers’ changing
    tastes. Although our stores primarily target the middle to upper
    middle income customer, we reach a broad range of customers
    across many demographic groups and income levels with the values
    we offer. The operating platforms and strategies of all of our
    retail concepts are synergistic. As a result, we capitalize on
    our expertise and systems throughout our business, leveraging
    information, best practices, initiatives and new ideas, and
    developing talent across our concepts. We also leverage the
    substantial buying power of our businesses in our global
    relationships with vendors.


 




    In the United States:


 






    
    
    



     
        — 

    
    T.J. MAXX and MARSHALLS: T.J. Maxx and Marshalls
    (referred to together in the U.S. as Marmaxx) are the
    largest off-price retailers in the United States with a total of
    1,753 stores. We founded T.J. Maxx in 1976 and acquired
    Marshalls in 1995. Both chains sell family apparel (including
    footwear and accessories), home fashions (including home basics,
    accent furniture, lamps, rugs, wall décor, decorative
    accessories and giftware) and other merchandise. We
    differentiate T.J. Maxx and Marshalls through different product
    assortment (including an expanded assortment of fine jewelry and
    accessories and a designer section called The Runway at T.J.
    Maxx and a full line of footwear, a broader men’s offering
    and a juniors’ department called The Cube at Marshalls),
    in-store initiatives, marketing and store appearance. This
    differentiated shopping experience at T.J. Maxx and Marshalls
    encourages our customers to shop both chains.



 





     
        — 

    
    HOMEGOODS: HomeGoods, introduced in 1992, is the
    leading off-price retailer of home fashions in the
    U.S. Through 336 stores, it sells a broad array of home
    basics, giftware, accent furniture, lamps, rugs, wall
    décor, decorative accessories, children’s furniture,
    seasonal merchandise and other merchandise.





 




    In Canada:


 






    
    
    



     
        — 

    
    WINNERS: Acquired in 1990, Winners is the leading
    off-price apparel and home fashions retailer in Canada. The
    merchandise offering at its 215 stores across Canada is
    comparable to T.J. Maxx and Marshalls. In 2008, Winners opened 3
    StyleSense stores, a concept that offers family footwear and
    accessories.



 





     
        — 

    
    MARSHALLS: In March 2011, we brought the Marshalls
    chain to Canada, with six stores planned to open in Canada
    during Fiscal 2012.



 





     
        — 

    
    HOMESENSE: HomeSense introduced the home fashions
    off-price concept to Canada in 2001. The chain has 82 stores
    with a merchandise mix of home fashions similar to HomeGoods.





 




    In Europe:


 






    
    
    



     
        — 

    
    T.K. MAXX: Launched in 1994, T.K. Maxx introduced
    off-price to Europe and remains Europe’s only major
    off-price retailer of apparel and home fashions. With 307
    stores, T.K. Maxx operates in the U.K. and Ireland as well as
    Germany, to which it expanded in 2007, and Poland, to which it
    expanded in 2009. Through its stores and online website, T.K.
    Maxx offers a merchandise mix similar to T.J. Maxx, Marshalls
    and Winners.



 





     
        — 

    
    HOMESENSE: HomeSense introduced the home fashions
    off-price concept to the U.K. in 2008 and its 24 stores offer a
    merchandise mix of home fashions in the U.K. similar to that of
    HomeGoods in the U.S. and HomeSense in Canada.





 


    3




 




 


    A.J. Wright Consolidation. In the fourth quarter
    of fiscal 2011, we announced our decision to consolidate A.J.
    Wright, an off-price retailer of family apparel and home
    fashions primarily targeting the lower middle income customer,
    by converting 90 of its stores to T.J. Maxx, Marshalls or
    HomeGoods banners and by closing the remaining 72 stores, two
    distribution centers and home office. We have increasingly
    improved our ability to reach the A.J. Wright customer
    demographic through our T.J. Maxx and Marshalls stores and have
    seen these stores perform well in markets with these
    demographics. Consolidating the A.J. Wright chain is expected to
    allow us to serve this customer demographic more efficiently,
    focus our financial and managerial resources on fewer, larger
    businesses with higher returns and enhance the growth prospects
    for the Company overall. For more detail on the A.J. Wright
    consolidation, see Note C to the consolidated financial
    statements.


 




    Flexible Business Model. Our off-price business
    model is flexible, particularly for a company of our size,
    allowing us to react to market trends. Our opportunistic buying
    and inventory management strategies give us flexibility to
    adjust our merchandise assortments more frequently than
    traditional retailers, and the design and operation of our
    stores and distribution centers support this flexibility. By
    maintaining a liquid inventory position, our merchants can buy
    close to need, enabling them to buy into current market trends
    and take advantage of opportunities in the marketplace. Buying
    close to need gives us insight into consumer and fashion trends
    and current pricing at the time we make our purchases, helping
    us “buy smarter” and reduce our markdown exposure. Our
    selling floor space is flexible, without walls between
    departments and largely free of permanent fixtures, so we can
    easily expand and contract departments in response to customer
    demand, as well as market and fashion trends. Our distribution
    facilities are designed to accommodate our methods of receiving
    and shipping broadly ranging quantities of product to our large
    store base quickly and efficiently.


 




    Opportunistic Buying. We are differentiated from
    traditional retailers by our opportunistic buying of quality,
    fashionable, brand name merchandise, which permits us to buy
    into current trends and pricing. We purchase the majority of our
    apparel inventory and a significant portion of our home fashion
    inventory opportunistically. Virtually all of our opportunistic
    purchases are made at discounts from initial wholesale prices.
    Our merchant organization numbers over 700, and we operate 12
    buying offices in nine countries. In contrast to traditional
    retailers, which typically order goods far in advance of the
    time the product appears on the selling floor, our merchants are
    in the marketplace virtually every week. They buy primarily for
    the current selling season, and to a limited extent, for a
    future selling season. Buying later in the inventory cycle than
    traditional retailers and using the flexibility of our stores to
    shift in and out of categories, we are able to take advantage of
    opportunities to acquire merchandise at substantial discounts
    that regularly arise from the routine flow of inventory in the
    highly fragmented apparel and home fashions marketplace, such as
    order cancellations, manufacturer overruns and special
    production. We operate with lean inventory levels compared to
    conventional retailers to give ourselves the flexibility to take
    advantage of these opportunities.


 




    We buy most of our inventory directly from manufacturers, with
    some coming from retailers and other sources. A small percentage
    of the merchandise we sell is private label merchandise produced
    for us by third parties. Our expansive vendor universe, which is
    in excess of 14,000, provides us substantial and diversified
    access to merchandise. We have not historically experienced
    difficulty in obtaining adequate amounts of quality inventory
    for our business in either favorable or difficult retail
    environments and believe that we will continue to have adequate
    inventory as we continue to grow.


 




    We believe a number of factors make us an attractive outlet for
    the vendor community and provide us excellent access on an
    ongoing basis to leading branded merchandise. We are typically
    willing to purchase
    less-than-full
    assortments of items, styles and sizes and quantities ranging
    from small to very large; we are able to disperse inventory
    across our geographically diverse network of stores; we pay
    promptly; and we generally do not ask for typical retail
    concessions (such as advertising, promotional and markdown
    allowances), delivery concessions (such as drop shipments to
    stores or delayed deliveries) or return privileges. Importantly,
    we provide vendors an outlet with financial strength and an
    excellent credit rating.


 




    Inventory Management. We offer our customers a
    rapidly changing selection of merchandise to create a
    “treasure hunt” experience in our stores and spur
    customer visits. To achieve this, we seek to turn the inventory
    in our stores rapidly, regularly offering fresh selections of
    apparel and home fashions at excellent values. Our specialized
    inventory planning, purchasing, monitoring and markdown systems,
    coupled with distribution center storage, processing, handling
    and shipping systems, enable us to tailor the merchandise in our
    stores to local preferences and demographics, achieve rapid
    in-store inventory turnover on a vast array of products and sell
    substantially all merchandise within targeted selling periods.
    We make pricing and markdown decisions and store inventory
    replenishment determinations centrally, using



 


    4




 





    information provided by specialized computer systems, designed
    to move inventory through our stores in a timely and disciplined
    manner. We do not generally engage in promotional pricing
    activity such as sales or coupons. Over the past several years,
    we have improved our supply chain, allowing us to reduce
    inventory levels and ship more efficiently and quickly. We plan
    to continue to invest in our supply chain with the goal of more
    precisely and effectively allocating the right merchandise to
    each store and delivering it quicker and more efficiently.


 


    Pricing. Our mission is to offer retail prices in
    our stores generally 20% to 60% below department and specialty
    store regular retail prices. Through our opportunistic
    purchasing, we are generally able to react to price fluctuations
    in the wholesale market to maintain this pricing. For example,
    in a time of rising inventory prices, if conventional retailers
    increase retail prices to preserve merchandise margin, we
    typically are able to increase our retail prices
    correspondingly, while maintaining our value relative to
    conventional retailers and preserve our own merchandise margin.
    If conventional retailers do not raise prices to pass rising
    inventory costs on to consumers, we seek to buy inventory at
    prices that permit us to maintain our values relative to
    conventional retailers and sustain our merchandise margins.


 


    Low Cost Operations. We operate with a low cost
    structure compared to many traditional retailers. We focus
    aggressively on expenses throughout our business. Although we
    have enhanced our advertising over the past several years to
    attract new customers to our stores, our advertising budget as a
    percentage of sales remains low compared to traditional
    retailers. We design our stores, generally located in community
    shopping centers, to provide a pleasant, convenient shopping
    environment but, relative to other retailers, do not spend
    heavily on store fixtures. Additionally, our distribution
    network is designed to run cost effectively. We continue to
    pursue cost savings in our operations.


 




    Customer Service. While we offer a self-service
    format, we train our store associates to provide friendly and
    helpful customer service and seek to staff our stores to deliver
    a positive shopping experience. We typically offer
    customer-friendly return policies. We accept a variety of
    payment methods including cash, credit cards and debit cards. In
    the U.S., we offer a co-branded TJX credit card and a private
    label credit card, both through a bank, but do not own the
    customer receivables related to either program. We are engaged
    in a store upgrade program across our banners, designed to
    enhance the customer shopping experience and drive sales.


 




    Distribution. We operate distribution centers
    encompassing approximately 10 million square feet in four
    countries, which are large, highly automated and built to suit
    our specific, off-price business model. We ship substantially
    all of our merchandise to our stores through these distribution
    centers as well as warehouses and shipping centers operated by
    third parties. We shipped approximately 1.8 billion units
    to our stores during fiscal 2011.


 




    Store Growth. Expansion of our business through
    the addition of new stores is an important part of our strategy
    for TJX as a global, off-price, value Company. The following
    table provides information on the growth and potential growth of
    each of our current chains in their current geographies:


 






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 




 


 


    Approximate


 


 


    Number of Stores at Year
    End(1)



 


 


    Estimated


 




 


 


    Average Store


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Fiscal 2012


 


 


    Ultimate Number


 




     


 


    Size (square feet)


 


 


    Fiscal 2010


 


 


    Fiscal 2011


 


 


    (estimated)


 


 


    of Stores


 




 


 



 






    In the United States:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    T.J. Maxx



 


 


    30,000


 


 


 


    890


 


 


 


    923


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Marshalls



 


 


    32,000


 


 


 


    813


 


 


 


    830


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




    





    Marmaxx



 


 


 


 


 


 


    1,703


 


 


 


    1,753


 


 


 


    1,869


 


 


 


    2,300-2,400


 





    HomeGoods



 


 


    25,000


 


 


 


    323


 


 


 


    336


 


 


 


    374


 


 


 


    600


 





    In Canada:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Winners



 


 


    29,000


 


 


 


    211


 


 


 


    215


 


 


 


    220


 


 


 


    240


 





    HomeSense



 


 


    24,000


 


 


 


    79


 


 


 


    82


 


 


 


    86


 


 


 


    90


 





    Marshalls



 


 


    33,000


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    6


 


 


 


    90-100


 





    In Europe:



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    T.K. Maxx



 


 


    32,000


 


 


 


    263


 


 


 


    307


 


 


 


    334


 


 


 


    650-725


    *





    HomeSense



 


 


    21,000


 


 


 


    14


 


 


 


    24


 


 


 


    24


 


 


 


    100-150


    **




    




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    2,593


 


 


 


    2,717


 


 


 


    2,913


 


 


 


    4,070-4,305


 




    













    
    
    



    
    (1)
    
    
    
    The number of stores at fiscal year
    end in the above table does not include A.J. Wright stores,
    which were 150 for fiscal 2010 and 142 for fiscal 2011. The
    conversion of 90 A.J. Wright stores, of which 9 are relocations
    of existing T.J. Maxx and Marshalls’ stores, is included in
    the Fiscal 2012 (estimated) count for Marmaxx and HomeGoods.
    








 






    
    
    



    
    *
    
    
    
    U.K., Ireland, Germany and Poland
    only
    







    
    **
    
    
    
    U.K. and Ireland only
    




 


    5




 




 


    Included in the Marshalls store counts above are free-standing
    Marshalls Shoe Shop stores, which sell family footwear and
    accessories (six stores at fiscal 2011 year end). Included
    in the Winners store counts above are StyleSense stores in
    Canada, which sell family footwear and accessories (three stores
    at fiscal 2011 year end). Some of our HomeGoods and
    Canadian HomeSense stores are co-located with one of our apparel
    stores in a superstore format. We count each of the stores in
    the superstore format as a separate store.


 




    Revenue Information. The percentages of our
    consolidated revenues by geography for the last three fiscal
    years are as follows:


 






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 




     


 


    Fiscal 2009


 


 


    Fiscal 2010


 


 


    Fiscal 2011


 




    


 



 






    United States



 


 


    77


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    78


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    77%


 


 


 


 


 





    Northeast



 


 


 


 


 


 


    26


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    26


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    26%


 





    Midwest



 


 


 


 


 


 


    13


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    13


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    14%


 





    South (including Puerto Rico)



 


 


 


 


 


 


    25


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    26


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    24%


 





    West



 


 


 


 


 


 


    13


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    13


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    13%


 





    Canada



 


 


    11


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    11


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    12%


 


 


 


 


 





    Europe



 


 


    12


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    11


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    11%


 


 


 


 


 




    





    Total



 


 


    100


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


 


 


 


 


    100%


 


 


 


 


 




    








 


    The percentages of our consolidated revenues by major product
    category for the last three fiscal years are as follows:


 






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 




     


 


    Fiscal 2009


 


 


    Fiscal 2010


 


 


    Fiscal 2011


 




    


 



 






    Clothing including footwear



 


 


    62


    %


 


 


    61


    %


 


 


    61


    %





    Home fashions



 


 


    25


    %


 


 


    26


    %


 


 


    26


    %





    Jewelry and accessories



 


 


    13


    %


 


 


    13


    %


 


 


    13


    %




    





    Total



 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    100


    %


 


 


    100


    %




    








 


    Segment Overview. As of January 29, 2011,
    we operated five business segments: three in the
    U.S. and one in each of Canada and Europe. Each of our
    segments has its own administrative, buying and merchandising
    organization and distribution network. Of the U.S. based
    chains, T.J. Maxx and Marshalls, referred to as Marmaxx, are
    managed together and reported as a single segment and HomeGoods
    and A.J. Wright each is reported as a separate segment. As a
    result of the consolidation of A.J. Wright, it will cease to be
    a separate segment during fiscal 2012. Outside the U.S., chains
    in Canada (Winners, HomeSense and StyleSense) are under common
    management and reported as the TJX Canada segment, and chains in
    Europe (T.K. Maxx and HomeSense) are under common management and
    reported as the TJX Europe segment. More detailed information
    about our segments, including financial information for each of
    the last three fiscal years, can be found in Note H to the
    consolidated financial statements.


 


    6




 




 



    STORE
    LOCATIONS.


 




    Our current chains operated stores in the following locations as
    of January 29, 2011:


 





    Stores
    located in the United States:


 






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 




     


 


    T.J. Maxx


 


 


    Marshalls


 


 


    HomeGoods


 




    


 



 






    Alabama



 


 


    20


 


 


 


    4


 


 


 


    2


 





    Arizona



 


 


    11


 


 


 


    14


 


 


 


    6


 





    Arkansas



 


 


    10


 


 


 


    –


 


 


 


    1


 





    California



 


 


    84


 


 


 


    116


 


 


 


    35


 





    Colorado



 


 


    11


 


 


 


    7


 


 


 


    4


 





    Connecticut



 


 


    25


 


 


 


    23


 


 


 


    10


 





    Delaware



 


 


    3


 


 


 


    3


 


 


 


    1


 





    District of Columbia



 


 


    1


 


 


 


    1


 


 


 


    –


 





    Florida



 


 


    69


 


 


 


    72


 


 


 


    35


 





    Georgia



 


 


    38


 


 


 


    28


 


 


 


    10


 





    Idaho



 


 


    5


 


 


 


    1


 


 


 


    1


 





    Illinois



 


 


    39


 


 


 


    41


 


 


 


    17


 





    Indiana



 


 


    18


 


 


 


    10


 


 


 


    2


 





    Iowa



 


 


    6


 


 


 


    2


 


 


 


    –


 





    Kansas



 


 


    6


 


 


 


    3


 


 


 


    1


 





    Kentucky



 


 


    11


 


 


 


    4


 


 


 


    3


 





    Louisiana



 


 


    9


 


 


 


    10


 


 


 


    –


 





    Maine



 


 


    8


 


 


 


    4


 


 


 


    3


 





    Maryland



 


 


    11


 


 


 


    23


 


 


 


    7


 





    Massachusetts



 


 


    48


 


 


 


    49


 


 


 


    21


 





    Michigan



 


 


    34


 


 


 


    20


 


 


 


    11


 





    Minnesota



 


 


    12


 


 


 


    12


 


 


 


    8


 





    Mississippi



 


 


    6


 


 


 


    3


 


 


 


    –


 





    Missouri



 


 


    14


 


 


 


    13


 


 


 


    6


 





    Montana



 


 


    3


 


 


 


    –


 


 


 


    –


 





    Nebraska



 


 


    4


 


 


 


    2


 


 


 


    –


 





    Nevada



 


 


    7


 


 


 


    8


 


 


 


    4


 





    New Hampshire



 


 


    14


 


 


 


    8


 


 


 


    6


 





    New Jersey



 


 


    31


 


 


 


    41


 


 


 


    24


 





    New Mexico



 


 


    3


 


 


 


    3


 


 


 


    –


 





    New York



 


 


    53


 


 


 


    68


 


 


 


    26


 





    North Carolina



 


 


    32


 


 


 


    20


 


 


 


    11


 





    North Dakota



 


 


    3


 


 


 


    –


 


 


 


    –


 





    Ohio



 


 


    38


 


 


 


    20


 


 


 


    9


 





    Oklahoma



 


 


    5


 


 


 


    4


 


 


 


    –


 





    Oregon



 


 


    8


 


 


 


    5


 


 


 


    3


 





    Pennsylvania



 


 


    39


 


 


 


    32


 


 


 


    14


 





    Puerto Rico



 


 


    2


 


 


 


    17


 


 


 


    6


 





    Rhode Island



 


 


    5


 


 


 


    6


 


 


 


    4


 





    South Carolina



 


 


    19


 


 


 


    9


 


 


 


    4


 





    South Dakota



 


 


    2


 


 


 


    –


 


 


 


    –


 





    Tennessee



 


 


    25


 


 


 


    13


 


 


 


    6


 





    Texas



 


 


    46


 


 


 


    66


 


 


 


    17


 





    Utah



 


 


    10


 


 


 


    –


 


 


 


    2


 





    Vermont



 


 


    5


 


 


 


    1


 


 


 


    1


 





    Virginia



 


 


    31


 


 


 


    25


 


 


 


    9


 





    Washington



 


 


    15


 


 


 


    10


 


 


 


    –


 





    West Virginia



 


 


    6


 


 


 


    3


 


 


 


    1


 





    Wisconsin



 


 


    17


 


 


 


    6


 


 


 


    5


 





    Wyoming



 


 


    1


 


 


 


    –


 


 


 


    –


 




    





    Total Stores



 


 


    923


 


 


 


    830


 


 


 


    336


 




    








 


    Store counts above include the T.J. Maxx, Marshalls or HomeGoods
    portion of a superstore.


 




    At January 29, 2011, we also operated 142 A.J. Wright
    stores, which we subsequently closed. We are converting 90 of
    these A.J. Wright locations to other banners (81 new stores and
    9 relocations).


 


    7




 








    Stores
    Located in Canada:


 






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 




     


 


    Winners


 


 


    HomeSense


 




    


 



 






    Alberta



 


 


    25


 


 


 


    9


 





    British Columbia



 


 


    27


 


 


 


    15


 





    Manitoba



 


 


    6


 


 


 


    1


 





    New Brunswick



 


 


    3


 


 


 


    2


 





    Newfoundland



 


 


    2


 


 


 


    1


 





    Nova Scotia



 


 


    8


 


 


 


    2


 





    Ontario



 


 


    101


 


 


 


    38


 





    Prince Edward Island



 


 


    1


 


 


 


    –


 





    Quebec



 


 


    39


 


 


 


    12


 





    Saskatchewan



 


 


    3


 


 


 


    2


 




    





    Total Stores



 


 


    215


 


 


 


    82


 




    








 


    Store counts above include the Winners or HomeSense portion of a
    superstore.


 





    Stores
    Located in Europe:


 






     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 




     


 


    T.K. Maxx


 


 


    HomeSense


 




    


 



 






    United Kingdom



 


 


    237


 


 


 


    24


 





    Republic of Ireland



 


 


    16


 


 


 


    –


 





    Germany



 


 


    47


 


 


 


    –


 





    Poland



 


 


    7


 


 


 


    –


 




    





    Total Stores



 


 


    307


 


 


 


    24


 




    








 


    Competition. The retail apparel and home fashion
    business is highly competitive. We compete on the basis of
    fashion, quality, price, value, merchandise selection and
    freshness, brand name recognition, service, reputation and store
    location. We compete with local, regional, national and
    international department, specialty, off-price, discount,
    warehouse and outlet stores as well as other retailers that sell
    apparel, home fashions and other merchandise that we sell,
    whether in stores, through catalogues or other media or over the
    internet.


 




    Employees. At January 29, 2011, we had
    approximately 166,000 employees, many of whom work less
    than 40 hours per week. In addition, we hire temporary
    employees, particularly during the peak
    back-to-school
    and holiday seasons.


 




    Trademarks. We have the right to use our principal
    trademarks and service marks, which are T.J. Maxx, Marshalls,
    HomeGoods, Winners, HomeSense and T.K. Maxx, in relevant
    countries. Our rights in these trademarks and service marks
    endure for as long as they are used.


 




    Seasonality. Our business is subject to seasonal
    influences. In the second half of the year, which includes the
    back-to-school
    and holiday seasons, we generally realize higher levels of sales
    and income.


 




    SEC Filings and Certifications. Copies of our
    annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    proxy statements, quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q
    and current reports on
    Form 8-K
    filed with, or furnished to, the SEC, and any amendments to
    those documents, are available free of charge on our website,
    www.tjx.com, under “SEC Filings,” as soon as
    reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with
    or furnished to the SEC. They are also available free of charge
    from TJX Investor Relations, 770 Cochituate Road, Framingham,
    Massachusetts 01701. The public can read and copy materials at
    the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    NE, Washington, DC 20549,
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains a website containing all reports, proxies,
    information statements, and all other information regarding
    issuers that file electronically
    (http://www.sec.gov).


 




    Information appearing on www.tjx.com is not a part of, and is
    not incorporated by reference in, this
    Form 10-K.


 




    Unless otherwise indicated, all store information in this
    Item 1 is as of January 29, 2011, and references to
    store square footage are to gross square feet. Fiscal 2009 means
    the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, fiscal 2010 means



 


    8




 





    the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010, fiscal 2011 means
    the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 and fiscal 2012
    means the fiscal year ending January 28, 2012.


 




    Unless otherwise stated or the context otherwise requires,
    references in this
    Form 10-K
    to “TJX,” “we,” “us” and
    “our” refer to The TJX Companies, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries.


 










    
    



    
    ITEM 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 




    The statements in this section describe the major risks to our
    business and should be considered carefully, in connection with
    all of the other information set forth in this annual report on
    Form 10-K.
    The risks that follow, individually or in the aggregate, are
    those that we think could cause our actual results to differ
    materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking
    statements.


 





    Global economic
    conditions may adversely affect our financial
    performance.


 


    During the recent economic recession, global financial markets
    experienced extreme volatility, disruption and credit
    contraction. The volatility and disruption to the capital
    markets significantly adversely affected global economic
    conditions, resulting in additional significant recessionary
    pressures and declines in employment levels, disposable income
    and actual and perceived wealth. Although there have been some
    recent improvements, continuing or worsened adverse economic
    conditions, including higher unemployment, energy and health
    care costs, interest rates and taxes and tighter credit, could
    continue to affect consumer confidence and discretionary
    consumer spending adversely and may adversely affect our sales,
    cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, renewed
    financial turmoil in the financial and credit markets could
    adversely affect our costs of capital and the sources of
    liquidity available to us and could increase our pension funding
    requirements.


 





    Fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates may lead to lower revenues and
    earnings.


 


    In addition to our U.S. businesses, we operate stores in
    Canada and Europe and plan to continue to expand our
    international operations. Sales made by our stores outside the
    United States are denominated in the currency of the country in
    which the store is located, and changes in foreign exchange
    rates affect the translation of the sales and earnings of these
    businesses into U.S. dollars for financial reporting
    purposes. Because of this, movements in exchange rates have had
    and are expected to continue to have a significant impact on our
    net sales and earnings.


 




    Additionally, we routinely enter into inventory-related hedging
    instruments to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange
    rates on merchandise margins of merchandise purchased by our
    international segments that is denominated in currencies other
    than their local currencies. In accordance with U.S. GAAP,
    we evaluate the fair value of these hedging instruments and make
    mark-to-market
    adjustments at the end of an accounting period. These
    adjustments are of a much greater magnitude when there is
    significant volatility in currency exchange rates and may have a
    significant impact on our earnings.


 




    Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can also increase the
    cost of inventory purchases by our businesses that are
    denominated in a currency other than the local currency of the
    business. When these changes occur suddenly, it can be difficult
    for us to adjust retail prices accordingly, and gross margin can
    be adversely affected. A significant amount of merchandise we
    offer for sale is made in China and accordingly, a revaluation
    of the Chinese currency, or increased market flexibility in the
    exchange rate for that currency, increasing its value relative
    to the U.S. dollar or currencies in which our stores are
    located could be particularly significant.


 




    Although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk
    management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in
    earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign
    exchange rates, we expect that foreign currency fluctuations
    could have a material adverse effect on our net sales and
    results of operations. In addition, fluctuations in foreign
    currency exchange rates may have a greater impact on our
    earnings and operating results if a counterparty to one of our
    hedging arrangements fails to perform.


 





    Failure to
    execute our opportunistic buying and inventory management could
    adversely affect our business.


 




    We purchase the majority of our apparel inventory and much of
    our home inventory opportunistically with our buyers purchasing
    close to need. To drive traffic to the stores and to increase
    same store sales, the treasure hunt nature of the off-price
    buying experience is enhanced by rapid inventory turns and
    continued replenishment of fresh, high quality, attractively
    priced merchandise in our stores. While opportunistic buying
    provides our buyers the ability to buy at desirable times and
    prices, in the quantities we need and into market trends, it
    places considerable discretion in our buyers, subjecting us to
    risks on the appropriate pricing, quantity, nature and timing of
    inventory flowing to our stores. In addition, we base our
    purchases of inventory, in part, on sales forecasts. If our
    sales forecasts do not match customer demand, we may experience
    higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or
    slow-moving inventory, leading to decreased profit margins, or
    we



 


    9




 





    may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand leading
    to lost sales, either of which could adversely affect our
    financial performance. Our pricing model requires that we
    purchase inventory sufficiently below conventional retail to
    maintain our pricing differential and margin, which we may not
    achieve at times. We must also properly execute our inventory
    management strategies through appropriately allocating
    merchandise among our stores, timely and efficiently
    distributing inventory to stores, maintaining an appropriate mix
    and level of inventory in stores, appropriately changing the
    allocation of floor space of stores among product categories to
    respond to customer demand and effectively managing pricing and
    markdowns. Our vendors and others in our supply chain are also
    subject to risks of labor issues, financial liquidity, weather
    and other natural disasters, economic, political and regulatory
    conditions and other matters that could affect our ability to
    receive and provide to our stores acceptable merchandise in
    adequate quantities on a timely basis. Failure to execute our
    opportunistic inventory buying and inventory management well
    could adversely affect our performance and our relationship with
    our customers.


 





    Failure to
    continue to expand our operations successfully could adversely
    affect our financial results.


 


    Our revenue growth is dependent, among other things, upon our
    ability to continue to expand successfully through successful
    new store openings as well as our ability to increase same store
    sales. Successful store growth requires acquisition and
    development of appropriate real estate including selection of
    store locations in appropriate geographies, availability of
    attractive stores or store sites in such locations and
    negotiation of acceptable terms. Competition for desirable
    sites, increases in real estate, construction and development
    costs and availability and costs of capital could limit our
    ability to open new stores in desirable locations in the future
    or adversely affect the economics of new stores. We may
    encounter difficulties in attracting customers in new markets
    for various reasons including decisions to open new banners,
    expansion into new geographies, customers’ lack of
    familiarity with our brands or our lack of familiarity with
    local customer preferences and cultural differences. New stores
    may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing
    stores, and new and existing stores in a market area may
    adversely affect each other’s sales and profitability.
    Further, expansion places significant demands on the
    administrative, merchandising, store operations, distribution
    and other organizations in our businesses to manage rapid
    growth, and we may not do so successfully. As a result, we may
    need to reduce our rate of expansion or we may operate with
    decreased operational efficiency, and it may adversely affect
    our results.


 





    Failure to
    successfully identify customer trends and preferences to meet
    customer demand could negatively impact our
    performance.


 


    Because our success depends on our ability to meet customer
    demand, we take various steps to keep up with customer trends
    and preferences including contacts with vendors, monitoring
    product category and fashion trends and comparison shopping. Our
    flexible business model allows us to buy close to need and in
    response to consumer preferences and trends and to expand and
    contract merchandise categories in response to consumers’
    changing tastes. However, identifying consumer trends and
    preferences in the various geographies in which we do business
    and successfully meeting customer demand is challenging, and we
    may not successfully do so, which could adversely affect our
    results.


 





    Our quarterly
    operating results can be subject to significant fluctuations and
    may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors’
    expectations.


 


    Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter at
    points in the past, and they may continue to do so in the
    future. Our earnings may not continue to grow at rates we plan
    and may fall short of either a prior quarter or investors’
    expectations. If we fail to meet the expectations of securities
    analysts or investors, our share price may decline. Factors that
    could cause us not to meet our securities analysts’ or
    investors’ earnings expectations include some factors that
    are within our control, such as the execution of our off-price
    buying; selection, pricing and mix of merchandise; and inventory
    management including flow, markon and markdowns; and some
    factors that are not within our control, including actions of
    competitors, weather conditions, economic conditions, consumer
    confidence, seasonality, and cost increases due, among other
    things, to government regulation and increased healthcare costs.
    In addition, if we do not repurchase the number of shares we
    contemplate pursuant to our stock repurchase program, our
    earnings per share may be adversely affected. Most of our
    operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries,
    do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult
    to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a
    particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we
    may not proportionately reduce operating expenses for that
    quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a
    disproportionate effect on our net income for the quarter. We
    maintain a forecasting process that seeks to project sales and
    align expenses. If we do not correctly forecast sales and
    control costs or appropriately adjust costs to actual results,
    our financial performance could be adversely affected.


 



 


    10




 






    Our future
    performance is dependent upon our ability to continue to expand
    within our existing markets and to extend our off-price model in
    new product lines, chains and geographic regions.


 


    Our strategy is to continue to expand within existing markets,
    to expand to new markets and geographies and to attract new
    customers in existing and new markets across demographics. This
    growth strategy includes developing new ways to sell more or
    different categories of merchandise within our existing stores,
    continued expansion of our existing chains in our existing
    markets and countries, expansion of these chains to new markets
    and countries, development and opening of new chains or
    potential expansion of
    e-commerce,
    all of which entail significant risk. Our growth is dependent
    upon our ability to successfully extend our business in these
    ways. If any of our expansion vehicles does not achieve the
    success we expect in whole or in part, we may be required to
    increase our investment or close stores or operations.
    Unsuccessful extension of our model could adversely affect
    growth and financial performance.


 





    If we fail to
    successfully implement our marketing, advertising and
    promotional programs, or if our competitors are more effective
    with their programs than we are, our revenue may be adversely
    affected.


 


    We use marketing, advertising and promotional programs to
    attract customers to our stores. We use various media for these
    programs, including print, television, social media, database
    marketing and direct marketing. Some of our competitors may have
    substantially larger expenditures for their programs, which may
    provide them with a competitive advantage. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to continue to execute our
    marketing, advertising and promotional programs effectively, and
    any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our
    revenue and results of operations. Information posted about us
    and our merchandise on social media platforms and similar
    venues, including blogs, social media websites, and other forums
    for Internet-based communications that allow individuals access
    to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons,
    may be inaccurate or may harm our brand, which could have a
    material effect on our revenue and results of operations.


 





    Compromises of
    our data security could materially harm our reputation and
    business.


 


    In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store
    certain personal information from individuals, such as our
    customers and associates, and we process customer payment card
    and check information. We suffered an unauthorized intrusion or
    intrusions (such intrusion or intrusions, collectively, the
    “Computer Intrusion”) into portions of our computer
    system that process and store information related to customer
    transactions, discovered late in fiscal 2007 in which we believe
    customer data were stolen. We have taken steps designed to
    further strengthen the security of our computer system and
    protocols and have instituted an ongoing program with respect to
    data security, consistent with a consent order with the Federal
    Trade Commission. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that
    we will not suffer a future data compromise. We rely on
    commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring
    to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of
    confidential information. Further, the systems currently used
    for transmission and approval of payment card transactions, and
    the technology utilized in payment cards themselves, all of
    which can put payment card data at risk, are determined and
    controlled by the payment card industry, not by us. This is also
    true for check information and approval. Computer hackers may
    attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful,
    misappropriate personal information, payment card or check
    information or confidential Company business information. In
    addition, a Company associate, contractor or other third party
    with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security
    measures in order to obtain such information, and may
    purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such
    information. Advances in computer and software capabilities and
    encryption technology, new tools and other developments may
    increase the risk of such a breach. Any such compromise of our
    data security and loss of personal or business information could
    disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and
    customers’ willingness to shop in our stores, violate
    applicable laws, regulations, orders and agreements, and subject
    us to additional costs and liabilities which could be material.


 





    Our business is
    subject to seasonal influences; a decrease in sales or margins
    during the second half of the year could disproportionately
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Our business is subject to seasonal influences; we generally
    realize higher levels of sales and income in the second half of
    the year, which includes the
    back-to-school
    and year-end holiday seasons. Any decrease in sales or margins
    during this period could have a disproportionately adverse
    effect on our results of operations.


 





    We may experience
    risks associated with our substantial size and scale.


 


    We operate multiple retail chains in the U.S., Canada and
    Europe. Some aspects of the businesses and operations of the
    chains are conducted with relative autonomy. The large size of
    our operations, our multiple businesses and the autonomy



 


    11




 





    afforded to the chains increase the risk that systems and
    practices will not be implemented uniformly throughout our
    company and that information will not be appropriately shared
    across different chains and countries.


 





    Unseasonable
    weather in the markets in which our stores operate or our
    distribution centers are located could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    Adverse and unseasonable weather affects customers’
    willingness to shop and their demand for the merchandise in our
    stores. Severe weather could also affect our ability to
    transport merchandise to our stores from our distribution and
    shipping centers. As a result, frequent, unusually heavy,
    unseasonable or untimely weather in our markets, such as snow,
    ice or rain storms, severe cold or heat or extended periods of
    unseasonable temperatures, could adversely affect our sales and
    increase markdowns. Increased governmental regulations focused
    on climate change could increase compliance costs.


 





    Our results may
    be adversely affected by serious disruptions or catastrophic
    events.


 


    Unforeseen public health issues, such as pandemics and
    epidemics, as well as natural disasters such as hurricanes,
    tornadoes, floods, earthquakes and other adverse weather and
    climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or
    abroad, could disrupt our operations or the operations of one or
    more of our vendors or could severely damage or destroy one or
    more of our stores or distribution facilities located in the
    affected areas. Day to day operations, particularly our ability
    to receive products from our vendors or transport products to
    our stores could be adversely affected, or we could be required
    to close stores or distribution centers in the affected areas or
    in areas served by the affected distribution center. As a
    result, our business could be adversely affected.


 





    We operate in
    highly competitive markets, and we may not be able to compete
    effectively.


 


    The retail apparel and home fashion business is highly
    competitive. We compete with many other local, regional,
    national and international retailers that sell apparel, home
    fashions and other merchandise we sell, whether in stores,
    through catalogues or media or over the internet. We compete on
    the basis of fashion, quality, price, value, merchandise
    selection and freshness, brand name recognition, service,
    reputation and store location. Other competitive factors that
    influence the demand for our merchandise include our
    advertising, marketing and promotional activities and the name
    recognition and reputation of our chains. If we fail to compete
    effectively, our sales and results of operations could be
    adversely affected.


 





    Failure to
    attract and retain quality sales, distribution center and other
    associates in appropriate numbers as well as experienced buying
    and management personnel could adversely affect our
    performance.


 


    Our performance depends on recruiting, developing, training and
    retaining quality sales, distribution center and other
    associates in large numbers as well as experienced buying and
    management personnel. Many of our associates are in entry level
    or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover.
    The nature of the workforce in the retail industry subjects us
    to the risk of immigration law violations, which risk has
    increased in recent years. In addition, any failure of
    third-parties that perform services on our behalf to comply with
    immigration, employment or other laws could damage our
    reputation or disrupt our ability to obtain needed labor. Our
    ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs is
    subject to external factors such as unemployment levels,
    prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, changing
    demographics, health and other insurance costs and governmental
    labor and employment requirements. Recently enacted health care
    reform legislation could increase our costs. In the event of
    increasing wage rates, if we fail to increase our wages
    competitively, the quality of our workforce could decline,
    causing our customer service to suffer, while increasing our
    wages could cause our earnings to decrease. In addition, certain
    associates in our distribution centers are members of unions and
    therefore subject us to the risk of labor actions. Because of
    the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must do
    significant internal training and development for a substantial
    number of our associates. The market for retail management is
    highly competitive and, in common with other retailers, we face
    challenges in securing sufficient management talent. If we do
    not continue to attract, train and retain quality associates and
    management personnel, our performance could be adversely
    affected.


 





    If we engage in
    mergers or acquisitions of new businesses, or divest, close or
    consolidate any of our current businesses, our business will be
    subject to additional risks.


 


    We have grown our business in part through mergers and
    acquisitions and may acquire new businesses or divest, close or
    consolidate current businesses. Acquisition or divestiture
    activities may divert attention of management from operating the
    existing businesses. We may do a
    less-than-optimal
    job of evaluating target companies and their risks and benefits,
    and integration of acquisitions can be difficult and
    time-consuming. Acquisitions may not meet our performance and
    other expectations or may expose us to unexpected or
    greater-than-expected
    liabilities and risks. Divestitures, closings and



 


    12




 





    consolidations also involve risks, such as the risks of exposure
    on lease and other contractual, employment and severance
    obligations, obligations undertaken in the process and potential
    liabilities that may arise under law as a result of the
    disposition or the subsequent failure of the acquirer. Failure
    to execute on mergers or divestitures, closings and
    consolidations in a satisfactory manner could adversely affect
    our future results of operations and financial condition.


 





    Failure to
    operate information systems and implement new technologies
    effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or
    profitability.


 


    We rely extensively on various information systems, data centers
    and software applications to manage many aspects of our
    business, including to process and record transactions in our
    stores, to enable effective communication systems, to plan and
    track inventory flow, and to generate performance and financial
    reports. We are dependent on the integrity, security and
    consistent operations of these systems and related
    back-up
    systems. Our computer systems are subject to damage or
    interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications
    failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic
    events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes,
    hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our
    associates or contractors. The efficient operation and
    successful growth of our business depends upon these information
    systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and
    to select and implement appropriate new technologies, systems,
    controls, data centers and adequate disaster recovery systems
    successfully. The failure of our information systems to perform
    as designed or our failure to implement and operate them
    effectively could disrupt our business or subject us to
    liability and thereby harm our profitability.


 





    We depend upon
    strong cash flows from our operations to supply capital to fund
    our expansion, operations, interest and debt repayments, stock
    repurchases and dividends.


 


    Our business depends upon our operations to generate strong cash
    flow, and to some extent upon the availability of financing
    sources, to supply capital to fund our expansions, general
    operating activities, stock repurchases, dividends, interest and
    debt repayments. Our inability to continue to generate
    sufficient cash flows to support these activities or the lack of
    availability of financing in adequate amounts and on appropriate
    terms when needed could adversely affect our financial
    performance including our earnings per share.


 





    General economic
    and other factors may adversely affect consumer spending, which
    could adversely affect our sales and operating
    results.


 


    Interest rates; recession; inflation; deflation; consumer credit
    availability; consumer debt levels; energy costs; tax rates and
    policy; unemployment trends; threats or possibilities of war,
    terrorism or other global or national unrest; actual or
    threatened epidemics; political or financial instability; and
    general economic, political and other factors beyond our control
    have significant effects on consumer confidence and spending.
    Consumer spending, in turn, affects sales at retailers, which
    may include TJX. Although we benefit from being an off-price
    retailer, these factors could adversely affect our sales and
    performance if we are not able to implement strategies to
    mitigate them promptly and successfully.


 





    Issues with
    merchandise quality or safety could damage our reputation, sales
    and financial results.


 


    Various governmental authorities in the jurisdictions where we
    do business regulate the quality and safety of the merchandise
    we sell in our stores. Regulations and standards in this area,
    including those related to the Consumer Product Safety
    Improvement Act of 2008 in the United States and similar
    legislation in other countries in which we operate, change from
    time to time. Our inability to comply on a timely basis with
    regulatory requirements could result in significant fines or
    penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial results. We rely on our vendors to provide quality
    merchandise that complies with applicable product safety laws
    and other applicable laws, but they may not comply with their
    contractual obligations to do so. Issues with the quality and
    safety of merchandise, particularly with food, bath and body and
    children’s products, or issues with the genuineness of
    merchandise, regardless of our fault, or customer concerns about
    such issues, could cause damage to our reputation and could
    result in lost sales, uninsured product liability claims or
    losses, merchandise recalls and increased costs, and regulatory,
    civil or criminal fines or penalties, any of which could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial results.


 





    We are subject to
    import risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign
    countries.


 


    Many of the products sold in our stores are sourced by our
    vendors and, to a lesser extent, by us, in many foreign
    countries, particularly southeastern Asia. Where we are the
    importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other
    requirements similar to those imposed upon the manufacturer of
    such products. We are subject to the various risks of



 


    13




 





    doing business in foreign markets, importing merchandise from
    abroad and purchasing product made in foreign countries, such as:


 






    
    
    



     
        — 

    
    potential disruptions in manufacturing, logistics and supply;




 



     
        — 

    
    changes in duties, tariffs, quotas and voluntary export
    restrictions on imported merchandise;




 



     
        — 

    
    strikes and other events affecting delivery;




 



     
        — 

    
    consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise;




 



     
        — 

    
    product compliance with laws and regulations of the destination
    country;




 



     
        — 

    
    product liability claims from customers or penalties from
    government agencies relating to products that are recalled,
    defective or otherwise noncompliant or alleged to be harmful;




 



     
        — 

    
    concerns about human rights, working conditions and other labor
    rights and conditions in foreign countries where merchandise is
    produced, and changing labor, environmental and other laws in
    these countries;




 



     
        — 

    
    compliance with laws and regulations concerning ethical business
    practices, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;




 



     
        — 

    
    potentially greater exposure for product warranty and safety
    problems; and




 



     
        — 

    
    economic, political or other problems in countries from or
    through which merchandise is imported.





 


    Political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs,
    currency exchange rates, labor conditions, transport capacity
    and costs, systems issues, problems in third party distribution
    and warehousing and other interruptions of the supply chain,
    compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations and
    other factors relating to international trade and imported
    merchandise beyond our control could affect the availability and
    the price of our inventory. Furthermore, although we have
    implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate
    compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business
    in foreign markets and importing merchandise from abroad, there
    can be no assurance that our associates, contractors, agents,
    vendors or other third parties with whom we do business will not
    violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could
    subject us to liability and could adversely affect our
    operations or operating results.


 





    Our expanding
    international operations increasingly expose us to risks
    inherent in operating in foreign jurisdictions.


 


    We have a significant retail presence in Canada and Europe, as
    well as buying offices around the world, and our goal as a
    global retailer is to continue to expand into other
    international markets in the future. Our foreign operations
    encounter risks similar to those faced by our
    U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign
    operations, such as understanding the retail climate and trends,
    local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets,
    complying with foreign laws, rules and regulations, and foreign
    currency fluctuations, which could have an adverse impact on our
    profitability.


 





    Our results may
    be adversely affected by increases in the price of oil and other
    commodities.


 


    Prices of oil have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have
    recently risen significantly. Increase in the price of oil
    increases our transportation costs for distribution, utility
    costs for our retail stores and costs to purchase our products
    from suppliers. Although we have implemented a hedging strategy
    to manage a portion of our transportation costs, increases in
    oil and gasoline prices could adversely affect consumer spending
    and demand for our products and increase our operating costs,
    which could have an adverse effect on our performance.
    Similarly, other commodity prices have also fluctuated
    dramatically in the past. Cost of cotton and synthetic fabrics
    have recently risen significantly. Such increases are expected
    to increase the cost of merchandise, which could adversely
    affect our performance through potentially reduced consumer
    demand or reduced margins.


 





    Failure to comply
    with existing laws, regulations and orders or changes in
    existing laws and regulations could negatively affect our
    business operations and financial performance.


 


    We are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws,
    rules and regulations in the United States and abroad, any of
    which may change from time to time, as well as orders and
    assurances. If we fail to comply with these laws, rules,
    regulations and orders, we may be subject to fines or other
    penalties, which could materially adversely affect our
    operations and our financial results and condition. We must also
    comply with new and changing laws. Further, Generally



 


    14




 





    Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in the U.S. may
    change from time to time, and the changes could have material
    effects on our reported financial results and condition. In
    addition, there have been a large number of new legislative and
    regulatory initiatives and reforms introduced in the U.S., and
    the initiatives and reforms that have been and may be enacted
    may increase our costs.


 





    Our results may
    be materially adversely affected by the outcomes of litigation
    and other legal proceedings.


 


    We are periodically involved in various legal proceedings, which
    may involve local, state and federal government inquiries and
    investigations; tax, employment, real estate, tort, consumer
    litigation and intellectual property litigation; or other
    disputes. There have been a growing number of employment-related
    lawsuits, including class actions, and we have been subject to
    these types of suits. In addition, we may be subject to
    investigations and other proceedings by regulatory agencies,
    including, but not limited to, consumer protection laws,
    advertising regulations, escheat and employment and wage and
    hour regulations. Results of legal and regulatory proceedings
    cannot be predicted with certainty and may differ from reserves
    we establish estimating the probable outcome. Regardless of
    merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to
    our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of
    management attention. Legal and regulatory proceedings and
    investigations could expose us to significant defense costs,
    fines, penalties and liability to private parties and
    governmental entities for monetary recoveries and other amounts
    and attorneys’ fees
    and/or
    require us to change aspects of our operations, any of which
    could have a material adverse effect on our business and results
    of operations.


 





    Our real estate
    leases generally obligate us for long periods, which subjects us
    to various financial risks.


 


    We lease virtually all of our store locations, generally for
    long terms and either own or lease for long periods our primary
    distribution centers and administrative offices. Accordingly, we
    are subject to the risks associated with owning and leasing real
    estate, which can have a material adverse effect on our results
    as reflected in our reserve for former operations. While we have
    the right to terminate some of our leases under specified
    conditions by making specified payments, we may not be able to
    terminate a particular lease if or when we would like to do so.
    If we decide to close stores, we are generally required to
    continue to perform obligations under the applicable leases,
    which generally includes, among other things, paying rent and
    operating expenses for the balance of the lease term, or paying
    to exercise rights to terminate, and the performance of any of
    these obligations may be expensive. When we assign or sublease
    leases, we can remain liable on the lease obligations if the
    assignee or sublessee does not perform. In addition, when leases
    for the stores in our ongoing operations expire, we may be
    unable to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable
    terms or at all, which could cause us to close stores.


 





    Our stock price
    may fluctuate based on market expectations.


 


    The public trading of our stock is based in large part on market
    expectations that our business will continue to grow and that we
    will achieve certain levels of net income. If the securities
    analysts that regularly follow our stock lower their rating or
    lower their projections for future growth and financial
    performance, the market price of our stock is likely to drop. In
    addition, if our quarterly financial performance does not meet
    the expectations of securities analysts, our stock price would
    likely decline. The decrease in the stock price may be
    disproportionate to the shortfall in our financial performance.


 





    Tax matters could
    adversely affect our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and
    numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes
    and future tax liability could be adversely affected by numerous
    factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being
    lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory income
    tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher
    statutory income tax rates, changes in income tax rates, changes
    in transfer pricing, changes in the valuation of deferred tax
    assets and liabilities, changes in U.S. tax legislation and
    regulation, foreign tax laws, regulations and treaties, exposure
    to additional tax liabilities, changes in accounting principles
    and interpretations relating to tax matters, which could
    adversely impact our results of operations and financial
    condition in future periods. In addition, we are subject to the
    continuous examination of our income tax returns by federal,
    state and local tax authorities in the U.S. and foreign
    countries, such authorities may challenge positions we take, and
    we are engaged in various proceedings with such authorities with
    respect to assessments, claims, deficiencies and refunds, and
    the results of these examinations, judicial proceedings or as a
    result of the expiration of statute of limitations in specific
    jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse
    outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the
    adequacy of our provision for income taxes. However, it is
    possible that the actual results of proceedings with tax
    authorities and in courts,



 


    15




 





    changes in facts, expiration of statutes of limitations or other
    resolutions of tax positions will differ from the amounts we
    have accrued in either a positive or a negative manner, which
    could materially affect our effective income tax rate in a given
    financial period, the amount of taxes we are required to pay and
    our results of operations.


 





    ITEM 1B