Item 1A.
    
    Business
Segments and Products
    
    We report our business in two segments:
Analytical Technologies and Laboratory Products and Services. For financial
information about segments, including domestic and international operations and
export sales, see Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which begin
on page F-1 of this report.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          3
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Analytical
Technologies Segment
    
    We serve the pharmaceutical,
biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets,
as well as the clinical laboratory and healthcare industries, through our
Analytical Technologies segment. This segment has seven principal product
groupings – Scientific Instruments, Biosciences, Microbiology, Integrative
Technologies, Diagnostics, Environmental Instruments and Process Instruments –
and provides a broad range of instruments, bioscience reagents, diagnostic
assays, software and services to address various scientific challenges in
laboratories, manufacturing and the field.
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Our
      Scientific Instruments include analytical instrumentation that analyzes
      prepared samples.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Our
      Biosciences products include leading reagents, tools and services used in
      life science research, drug discovery and biopharmaceutical
      production.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Our
      Microbiology products include high-quality reagents and diagnostic kits
      used in the diagnosis of infectious disease or for testing for bacterial
      contamination to assure the safety and quality of consumer products such
      as food and pharmaceuticals.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Our
      Integrative Technologies offerings include software interpretation tools
      and development support for the data generated by the instruments as well
      as laboratory automation equipment and
systems.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Our
      Diagnostics products and services are used by healthcare and other
      laboratories to prepare and analyze patient samples to detect and diagnose
      diseases.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Our
      Environmental Instruments include solutions and services for environmental
      monitoring, safety and security.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Our
      Process Instruments provide measurement solutions and services outside the
      laboratory to enable process control and
  optimization.
            
          
      
    
    
    Scientific
Instruments
    
    Our analytical instrumentation is used
primarily in laboratory and industrial settings and incorporates a range of
techniques, including mass spectrometry (MS), chromatography and optical
spectroscopy, and can be combined with a range of accessories, consumables,
software, spectral reference databases, services and support to provide a
complete solution to the customer. Mass spectrometry is a technique for
analyzing chemical compounds, individually or in complex mixtures, by forming
gas phase charged ions that are then analyzed according to mass-to-charge
ratios. In addition to molecular information, each discrete chemical compound
generates a fragmentation pattern that provides structurally diagnostic
information. Chromatography is a technique for separating, identifying and
quantifying individual chemical components of substances based on physical and
chemical characteristics specific to each component. Optical spectroscopy is a
technique for analyzing individual chemical components of substances based on
the absorption or emission of electromagnetic radiation of a specific wavelength
of light, for example, visible (light), ultraviolet or infra-red.
    
    In life sciences markets, we offer a
line of mass spectrometers including ion traps, quadrupoles and other advanced
mass spectrometers, as well as liquid chromatographs (LCs) and columns, and
multi-instrument combinations of these products as integrated solutions (LC-MS).
These systems are tailored to meet the rigorous demands of lab professionals in
applications such as drug discovery, life science research and analytical
quantitation.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          4
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Ion Trap and Hybrid MS. The
company’s ion trap and hybrid mass spectrometry product lines feature tiered
portfolios to support a wide spectrum of analytical requirements. These
instruments support applications ranging from routine compound identification
and high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) detection to sophisticated
research applications such as the analysis of low-abundance components in
complex biological matrices.
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              LTQ
      FT ULTRATM –
      Combines our most advanced ion trap and Fourier Transform (FT) Ion
      Cyclotron Resonance (ICR) technologies into a single instrument with
      superior analytical power and versatility. The system uniquely combines
      high resolution, accurate mass determinations and MSn (mass
      spectrometry to the nth power) for high-throughput analysis on a single
      instrument.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              LTQ
      Orbitrap XLTM –
      Combines our most advanced ion trap with our patented Orbitrap technology,
      providing high resolution and accurate mass determinations over a broad
      dynamic range for advanced proteomics and small molecule
      research.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              LTQ
      Orbitrap DiscoveryTM –
      Combines our most advanced ion trap with our patented Orbitrap technology,
      providing excellent resolution and mass accuracy for general proteomics
      and metabolism applications.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              LTQ
      XLTM –
      Based on a 2-dimensional (2-D) linear ion trap design and incorporating
      patented innovative technologies and ease-of-use features, this system is
      primarily used for metabolic profiling and proteomics
      research.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              LXQTM –
      Based on a 2-D linear ion trap design, this system provides
      high-throughput performance for drug discovery, forensics and proteomics
      applications.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              LCQ FleetTM –
      A robust, entry-level ion trap mass spectrometer for routine analysis of
      complex samples.
            
          
      
    
    
    Triple Quadrupole MS. The
company’s TSQ Quantum Series consists of an advanced portfolio of triple
quadrupole mass spectrometers with both liquid chromatography (LC) and gas
chromatography (GC) inlets.
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              TSQ
      Quantum AccessTM –
      A versatile, entry-level mass spectrometer that is used in environmental
      and food safety laboratories.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              TSQ
      Quantum Discovery MAXTM –
      This ultra-compact benchtop MS system incorporates innovative technology
      for increased sensitivity, precision, ruggedness and reliability. It is
      principally designed for high-productivity environments such as
      environmental, clinical research and drug discovery laboratories. With the
      Ion Max source, the TSQ Quantum Discovery MAX addresses the needs of these
      laboratories for more rugged and dependable LC-MS/MS to enable
      around-the-clock productivity.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              TSQ
      Quantum UltraTM –
      An advanced instrument used primarily for bioanalytical studies. It
      features the Ion Max source with interchangeable electrospray ionization
      (ESI) and atmospheric pressure chemical ionization (APCI) probes for
      increased robustness and
sensitivity.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              TSQ
      Quantum GCTM –
      High performance GC-MS/MS system that provides high sensitivity and
      selectivity for applications in environmental, food safety, pharmaceutical
      and clinical research laboratories.
            
          
      
    
    
    In addition, we supply a range of
sample preparation capabilities for mass spectrometry including advanced sample
extraction and liquid chromatography products, which are used with triple
quadrupole mass spectrometers in bioanalysis and drug discovery.
    
    
    
    TM
Represents a trademark or service mark of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. or its
subsidiaries.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          5
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    A significant and growing application
for our technologically advanced mass spectrometers is proteomics, the study of
proteins. Most drugs – about 90 percent – interact with proteins, so
multi-instrument systems that can rapidly identify and quantify proteins are of
increasing value to pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. The combination
of ETD (Electron Transfer Dissociation) with our LTQ XL ion trap machine extends
the range of techniques for proteomics researchers and enables routine analysis
of protein modifications. We continue to introduce new systems that address the
breadth of primary analytical needs for high-throughput analysis including
bioanalysis and proteomics research, as well as for other growing life science
areas such as:
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Biomarkers
      – compounds that may be endogenous and signal the early onset of a
      specific disease.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              ADME/Tox
      – Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion and Toxicology studies
      that are conducted for drug discovery in support of human clinical
      trials.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              Metabalomics
      – measurement of the real biochemical status, dynamics, interactions and
      regulation of whole systems or organisms at a molecular
    level.
            
          
      
    
    
    In addition, Thermo Fisher offers a
broad range of advanced magnetic sector instrumentation for high-resolution MS.
This range also covers organic MS, gas isotope ratio MS and thermal ionization
MS.
    
    Liquid Chromatography. Our
HPLC systems, comprising the high speed Accela HPLC, Surveyor PlusTM and
SpectraSYSTEMTM, offer
high throughput and sensitivity. They are sold as stand-alone instrumentation
(HPLC) or as integrated systems with our mass spectrometers (LC-MS and
LC-MS/MS). The Surveyor MSQTM Plus is
a fast scanning single quadrupole LC-MS system used primarily in pharmaceutical
laboratories as a UHPLC detector, providing chromatographers the ability to run
routine HPLC applications more efficiently with real-time mass confirmation.
These products utilize our comprehensive line of HPLC columns, including
HYPERSILTM Gold,
HyPurityTM and
Aquasil columns.
    
    In January 2007, we acquired
Spectronex, a European-based supplier of mass spectrometry, chromatography and
surface science instrumentation, as well as Flux Instruments, a manufacturer of
high performance liquid chromatography pumps. The Flux acquisition provided the
pump for the new Accela UHPLC as well as a unique design platform for future
HPLC development.
    
    Beyond life sciences markets, our
chemical analysis instrumentation, including our gas chromatography, elemental
analysis and molecular spectroscopy instrumentation, uses various separation and
optical spectroscopy techniques to determine the elemental and molecular
composition of a wide range of complex liquids and solids.
    
    Gas Chromatography. Gas
chromatography is a separation technique used to analyze complex samples in the
form of gases. Thermo Fisher’s high performance and reliable line of gas
chromatographs (GCs) includes our Trace GC Ultra, a versatile laboratory GC with
a full range of detectors, injectors, and valve systems; our FOCUS GC, which is
a single-channel GC; our Trace GCxGC for analysis of target compounds in complex
matrices; and autosamplers, including our TriPlusTM
Autosampler, that provide a robotic sampling solution to a GC
laboratory.
    
    Our GC offering is also incorporated
into our GC mass spectrometry (GC-MS) product line, which pairs a mass
spectrometer detector with a GC front end. Our offering includes the DSQTM II, a
GC-MS product based on the platform of Thermo Fisher’s DSQ and PolarisQ GC-MS
systems. The DSQ II incorporates the new DynaMax XR ion detection system and the
DuraBriteTM ion
source. The PolarisQ Ion Trap MSn offers affordable tandem mass spectrometry at
the sensitivity of GC-specific detectors.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          6
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Elemental Analysis. Thermo
Fisher also offers a line of elemental analysis instrumentation used to analyze
elements in liquid and solid samples. Our range of combustion analyzer products,
including our M & S Series atomic absorption (AA) systems, the iCAP 6000
Series benchtop inductively coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometers, and X SERIES 2
and ELEMENT2 ICP mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) systems are used for elemental
analysis of liquid samples. Environmental, geochemical and clinical/toxicology
laboratories often utilize these techniques, as well as many other industrial
laboratories. In particular, our award winning iCAP 6000 Series ICP
spectrometer, sold into growth markets such as China, environmental protection
and materials and chemicals, is used in applications that support new
regulations (such as the European Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment
(WEEE) Directive and the European Union Directive on Restriction of Certain
Hazardous Substances (RoHS)).
    
    Thermo Fisher also provides a full
range of instrumentation for elemental analysis of solids, using both X-ray
fluorescence and optical emission (OE) techniques. Our arc spark product line
based on OE spectrometry is ideal for use in process/quality control for the
direct, elemental analysis of solid metals. Products include the ARL QUANTRIS
and ARL QuantoDesk CCD-based metals analyzers, ARL 3460 and ARL 4460 OE
spectrometers that can be fully automated for unattended operation.
    
    Our benchtop and standalone X-ray
fluorescence (WDXRF/EDXRF) systems for analysis of conductive or non-conductive
solids and liquids are used in many industrial and research laboratories, for
monitoring of a few elements in oils, polymers, cement or quarry materials to
the full analysis of glasses, metals, ores, refractories and geological
materials. Additionally our UniQuant software package makes it possible to
analyze totally unknown samples in any form without the need for certified
standards. Our X-ray diffraction (XRD) equipment allows analysis of phases or
compounds in crystalline materials. Both XRF and XRD techniques are integrated
into our unique ARL 9900 X-ray Workstation to provide total analysis
capabilities to the cement, metals and mining industries.
    
    Molecular Spectroscopy.
Thermo Fisher is also a leader in analytical instrumentation involving
spectroscopic analysis of molecular structures. The new Nicolet i10 Series
Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) and Nicolet 700 Series research grade FT-IR
systems provide a complete analytical offering in FT-IR spectroscopy and
microscopy, from routine QA/QC applications to advanced research work across
many industries including polymer, pharmaceutical and forensic. We are also a
leader in the Raman and Near infrared markets with our new DXR Raman Series
offering research capabilities to the routine-user. In 2007, Thermo Fisher
expanded its line of visible and ultraviolet visible (UV-Vis) spectrophotometers
and microanalysis products with the acquisition of NanoDrop Technologies, Inc.,
a U.S.-based supplier of micro-UV-Vis spectrophotometry and fluorescence
scientific instruments. These products are used in life science, pharmaceutical
and material science analysis.
    
    Customers for Thermo Fisher’s chemical
analysis instrumentation include environmental, pharmaceutical, polymer,
petrochemical, food, semiconductor, energy, coatings, geological, steel and
basic materials producers who frequently use these instruments for quality
assurance and quality control applications, primarily in a
laboratory.
    
    Services. We have an
extensive service network to support our installed base of instruments across
the globe. In addition, we provide a broad range of services, including
multi-vendor laboratory instrument services, such as instrument qualifications;
preventive and corrective maintenance; validation, regulatory compliance
and metrology; as
well as instrument/equipment asset management services with solutions that
deliver instrument and equipment maintenance management, physical inventory
tracking and enterprise-wide maintenance reporting to help customers improve the
cost/performance of their instrumentation, equipment and
facilities.
    
    Biosciences
    
    Our broad range of Biosciences products
and services includes fine and high-purity chemistry products; proprietary
protein analysis; RNA interference (RNAi); PCR and QPCR reagents and related
products; high content screening (HCS) and analysis (HCA); nucleic acid
synthesis reagents; molecular biology reagents; cell-culture products and
sterile liquid-handling systems. These products are used across the general
chemistry and life sciences arenas primarily for scientific research and drug
discovery, as well as biopharmaceutical research and production. Our Biosciences
products are sold under proprietary product names such as Acros OrganicsTM,
MaybridgeTM,
HyCloneTM,
PierceTM,
DharmaconTM and
ABgeneTM.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          7
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Global
Chemicals
    
    Our Global Chemicals products provide
solutions for chemistry-based applications to scientists involved in analysis,
research and development, and manufacturing. We offer reliable, industry leading
products and services through internal expertise and through partnerships with
leading providers of chemical technology. We deliver high quality,
customer-focused, optimized products and solutions through our extensive global
distribution network. Our broad product portfolio includes Acros Organics
chemicals, which are used in basic research applications to synthesize new and
interesting materials. These products are supplied in pre-pack and semi-bulk
quantities and are used across all types of chemistry. Our Fisher ChemicalTM
products help scientists purify, extract, separate, identify and/or manufacture
products. These products are used across a range of industries, including
pharmaceutical, biotechnology, electronic, and environmental. Our Fisher
BioReagentsTM
products are used in many different laboratory applications, from cell growth to
detailed protein analysis, to help scientists understand functions within living
organisms. We also provide bulk sizes of our various products when customers
scale-up from research to development. The primary markets served are
pharmaceutical, life sciences and high technology.
    
    Life
Science Research (LSR)
    
    Our Life Science Research products
provide innovative technologies and services globally for genomics and
proteomics applications. We serve the pharmaceutical and biotechnology
industries as well as diagnostics companies, clinical laboratories, colleges and
universities, government and industrial customers. Our offering includes a wide
range of proprietary protein-research and cell-culture products; nucleic-acid
technologies; reagents for high-content cellular screening; reliable,
high-quality RNA oligonucleotides; small-interfering RNA and related
RNA-interference products; and plastic consumables.
    
    Our Genomics offering includes products
and services which use nucleic acids to modulate gene expression or to measure
changes in the cellular levels of specific nucleic acids. We provide synthesis
reagents such as phosphoramidites to manufacturers of research and large scale
synthetic nucleic acids and supply other molecular biology reagents to life
science research, agricultural, clinical and diagnostic providers. Scientists
use our PCR and QPCR reagents and PCR reaction plates and sealing products, sold
under the ABgene name, to amplify and measure nucleic acids with high precision
and sensitivity, enabling them to gain a better understanding of the control
mechanisms inside a cell. Used in the study of cancer, metabolic diseases, in
epidemiological studies and in agriculture research, our products enable
scientists to shorten the drug development process. Our RNA products and
services, sold under the Dharmacon name, are used by scientists conducting basic
research to understand the function of genes and their role in biological
processes and human disease. They are also used in drug discovery to identify
and validate drug targets. RNA interference products are an exciting class of
emerging therapeutic compounds. We provide technologies used in the development
of potential RNAi-based therapeutics.
    
    Our Proteomics products, sold under the
Pierce, BioImageTM and CellomicsTM names, enable the effective and
efficient study of the biology of proteins, and offer unique cell-based assays
and services for high-content pathway analysis. Scientists use our Pierce
reagents and kits for protein purification, protein detection and quantitation, protein sample preparation, protein labeling, protein interaction, and related studies, providing new
capabilities and sensitive and accurate results more efficiently. We also
provide proteomics products to manufacturers for inclusion in products sold for
research or industrial uses. Cellomics HCS Reagent Kits and BioImage Assays are
powerful tools for cell-based screening and analysis of specific molecular
targets and biological parameters.
    
    BioProcess
Production
    
    Our BioProcess Production offerings
include cell-culture and bioprocessing products used in the production of animal
and human viral vaccines, monoclonal antibodies, skin replacement and
protein-based drugs. The product line is used in research and academic markets
for cellular interaction studies, toxicity testing, antiviral, and anticancer
studies. Our 
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          8
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    HyClone
product offering includes leading cell-culture products (sera, classical media,
serum-free and protein-free media, and process liquids) and bioprocessing
systems for life science research and protein-based drug production. The line
includes flexible, single-use BioProcess ContainerTM
(BPCTM)
systems, which are sterile, disposable bags specifically designed for
transporting, mixing, dispensing, and storing sterile liquids and powders. The
HyClone Single-Use Bioreactor (SUB) portfolio offers a single-use alternative to
conventional stirred tank bioreactors currently used in animal cell culture. The
SUB emulates the scalability and operating parameters of the conventional
stirred tank bioreactors, yet is disposable. Under the TC TechTM name,
we also provide sterile fluid-handling bags used to transfer, transport and
store bioprocess liquids in the biopharmaceutical manufacturing process as well
as tubing, fittings, connectors and flexible single-use containers specifically
qualified for use in bioscience applications in the biopharmaceutical,
biotechnology and diagnostic industries. Products, including cell-culture media,
sera, process liquids and reagents, as well as single-use BioProcess Container
systems, are provided in a variety of sizes ranging from small volumes up to
tens of thousands of liters of specialized products in large vessels for
full-scale production.
    
    Microbiology
    
    Our Microbiology offerings include
high-quality microbiology laboratory products, including dehydrated and prepared
culture media, collection and transport systems, diagnostic and rapid direct
specimen tests, quality-control products and associated products for the
microbiology laboratory. Our Microbiology products are sold under the OxoidTM and
RemelTM
specialty brands. Our products focus on aiding customers in the diagnosis of
infectious disease, implementing effective infection control programs or in
detecting microbial contamination of their products or manufacturing
facilities.
    
    These products are used by
microbiologists worldwide to grow and identify bacteria and to detect viruses
and parasites. Within the clinical field, these products are used to facilitate
a rapid and accurate diagnosis of infectious disease, to determine appropriate
antimicrobial therapy and to aid in the implementation of infection control
programs. Key clinical customers include hospitals, public health and reference
laboratories, clinics and physician offices. Within the food and pharmaceutical
industries, our products are used to assure the safety and quality of consumer
products by monitoring production environments, raw materials and end products
for bacterial contamination. Industrial customers are comprised of quality
control and quality assurance functions within food, beverage, personal care,
pharmaceutical and biotech companies.
    
    Integrative
Technologies
    
    Our Integrative Technologies offerings
provide integrated solutions for customers in regulated and unregulated
industries such as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, petrochemicals, chemicals,
and food and beverage utilizing our broad capabilities in laboratory equipment,
instrumentation, consumables, reagents and software. Our products include
laboratory information management systems (LIMS), chromatography data systems
(CDS), database analytical tools, automation systems, microplate instrumentation
and automated cellular imaging systems. To support our global installations, we
provide implementation, validation, training, maintenance and support from our
large global services network.
    
    Informatics
    
    Thermo Fisher develops and provides
LIMS solutions that provide application-specific, purpose-built functionality in
software targeted for certain industries. These industries include
pharmaceutical, petrochemical, chemical, food and beverage, metals and mining,
environmental and water/wastewater, as well as government and academia. Thermo
Fisher is a leader in developing commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) solutions
designed for specific industry applications. Providing basic requirements as
standard functionality reduces risk for our customers and eases implementation,
validation and training, while lowering total cost of ownership. More recently,
we have focused our design and development on open standards. 
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          9
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    Moving to
an open, service-oriented computing architecture based on Microsoft® .NET
creates more interoperability so our systems can enable end-to-end process
workflows. Our flagship LIMS, called SampleManager, moved to the .NET platform,
incorporated Service-Oriented Architecture, enhanced Web interfacing, and added
support for the Microsoft® SQL
Server 2005 database in addition to Oracle’s database option. Our DarwinTM LIMS is
also based on .NET. Other products within the portfolio will be moved to .NET,
migrating away from proprietary programming languages while continuing to
support existing customers’ use of such programming.
    
    Our portfolio includes
SampleManagerTM LIMS,
an enterprise solution used in laboratories at leading companies in the
pharmaceutical, oil and gas, environmental, chemical and food and beverage
industries; WatsonTM LIMS,
for pharmaceutical bioanalytical laboratories; GalileoTM LIMS,
designed specifically for ADME and in-vitro testing in early drug discovery and
development; NautilusTM LIMS,
used in a range of industrial applications and increasingly by biotechnology
laboratories because of its configurability, patented workflows and
plate-handling capabilities; and Darwin LIMS for pharmaceutical manufacturing
R&D and QA/QC. In addition, we market the Atlas CDSTM, a
multi-industry enterprise-class system that is tightly integrated with our LIMS
solutions for greater accuracy and consistent reporting of shared data, as well
as increased productivity.
    
    We also provide a global services
network of experienced consultants who provide a broad range of services focused
on the successful implementation of our customers’ projects. These services
include project planning, management of user workshops, defining business
requirements, milestone delivery, systems integration, workflow modeling and
validation consultancy.
    
    Laboratory
Automation Solutions
    
    Thermo Fisher is a leading innovator of
automation systems that provide solutions for the drug discovery market. With
core competencies in integration, applications and innovation, we work closely
with customers to develop both turnkey products and tailored systems for
genomic/proteomic, biochemical/cell based assays and drug discovery
applications. Our key technologies include automated storage, integration
platforms, robotics and software. Advanced automated storage systems offer both
low- and high-volume capacities with full environmental control. Our integration
platforms range from stand-alone plate stackers and movers to highly flexible
robotic solutions that incorporate advanced analytical equipment and software
for experiment design, control and analysis. Precise and reliable motion control
is achieved through state-of-the-art robotics that improve throughput and
walk-away time. The company’s software platforms schedule and control all
robotics and third-party instrumentation. These software platforms integrate
with LIMS and other informatics systems to enable efficient workflow and data
management. Our automated platforms incorporate all instrument core functions
such as readers, imagers, liquid handlers, bulk dispensers, incubators,
microplate stackers, and automated storage products.
    
    Cellular
Imaging and Analysis
    
    Thermo Fisher is a leading provider of
complete systems for high-content screening (HCS) and analysis (HCA) used by
drug discovery and systems-biology researchers. Our CellomicsTM
platform includes automated imaging instrumentation (ArrayScanTM VTM HCS
Reader and the cellWoRxTM High
Content Cell Analysis System), BioApplication image analysis software and High
Content Informatics (HCiTM), fully
integrated to improve the quality and productivity of cell-based assays. Our
proprietary platforms are in use at multiple sites within the top 15
pharmaceutical companies, as well as at leading biotechnology companies and
academic centers throughout the world. These products enable customers to
develop new and effective therapies to treat, cure and prevent diseases and are
utilized by scientists in drug discovery companies and basic research
institutions to look at how drug candidates and targets of interest affect live
cells. For drug discovery companies, these experiments enable scientists to
determine the best drug candidates and to ultimately shorten the drug discovery
process. For basic research scientists, these experiments enable scientists to
explore all aspects of cell biology in a fast, quantitative fashion. These
technologies are used in a range of drug discovery and in therapeutic areas such
as neurobiology, toxicology, cancer biology and cell biology.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          10
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Microplate
Instruments
    
    Thermo Fisher offers a wide variety of
different microplate instruments for drug discovery, assay development, ELISA
and applied testing markets. Our portfolio includes different microplate
detection, bulk reagent dispensing, magnetic particle and microplate washer and
incubation instruments. The wide range of microplate detection systems include
the MultiskanTM
photometers, the FluoroskanTM
fluorometers, and the LuminoskanTM
luminometer. The Varioskan FlashTM and
AppliskanTM
multimode readers offer high performance for the most reliable assay data. The
Varioskan FlashTM
spectral scanning multimode reader is designed for analyzing and optimization of
assays, such as binding assays, ADMETox, molecular biology assays, enzyme
kinetic studies, ion-channel and cell signaling assays. Our Multidrop CombiTM is a
leading bulk reagent dispenser offering superior levels of flexibility and
performance to meet the requirements of reagent dispensing in pharmaceutical and
biotechnology laboratories. Our KingFisherTM
magnetic particle processors use a patented method to purify proteins, nucleic
acids and cells in a convenient, rapid and reproducible manner. The
KingFisherTM system
consists of instruments, specially designed plastics and software to provide a
total purification solution for customer applications.
    
    Diagnostics
    
    Our Diagnostics products and services
are used by the diagnostics community, including healthcare laboratories in
hospitals, academic and research institutes, to prepare and analyze patient
samples such as blood, urine, body fluids or tissue sections, to detect and
diagnose diseases, such as cancer.
    
    Clinical
Diagnostics
    
    Our clinical diagnostics products
include a broad offering of liquid, ready-to-use and lyophilized
immunodiagnostics reagent kits, calibrators, controls and calibration
verification fluids. In particular, we provide products used for drugs-of-abuse
testing; therapeutic drug monitoring, including immunosuppressant drug testing;
thyroid hormone testing; serum toxicology; clinical chemistry; immunology;
hematology; coagulation; glucose tolerance testing; monitoring and toxicology.
Many of these products are sold under their industry-recognized brand names such
as: CEDIATM,
DRITM,
CASCOTM,
MASTM,
QMSTM and
Duke ScientificTM. In
many instances, we will work with customers or partners to develop new products
and applications for their instrument platforms. We have developed one of the
broadest menus for drugs-of-abuse immunoassays, including those for newer drugs
such as Oxycodone, Heroin Metabolite and Buprenorphine. We also offer a complete
line of Immunosuppressant Drug immunoassays that can be used on a variety of
clinical chemistry analyzers. Our clinical chemistry and automation systems
include analyzers and reagents to analyze and measure routine blood and urine
chemistry, such as glucose and cholesterol; and advanced testing for specific
proteins, therapeutic drug monitoring and drugs-of-abuse. Our diagnostic test
range currently covers approximately 80 different validated methods. We also
provide pre- and post-analytical automation for preparation of blood specimens
before and after analysis. In other analytical laboratory fields, our reagents
and automated photometric analyzers are used for colorimetric and enzymatic
analysis and quality control in food and beverage, wine and pharmaceutical
production. In addition to our own sales channels, our clinical chemistry and
automation systems are distributed by some of the leading diagnostic
manufacturers, such as Siemens Medical Solutions Diagnostics and Ortho-Clinical
Diagnostics (OCD).
    
    Anatomical
Pathology
    
    We provide a broad portfolio of
products for use primarily in immunochemistry, histology, cytology and
hematology applications. These products include consumables for specimen
collection, tissue processing, embedding and staining, such as reagents, stains,
slides, cover glass, microarray substrates, detection kits and antibodies. We
also provide a range of instruments including Lab Vision 360, an autostaining
immunohistochemistry slide staining system; and the HMS760X, a robot stainer
used in slide staining of histology and cytological specimens; along with other
equipment such as tissue processors for preparation of tissue samples;
microtomes and cryostats for sectioning of processed tissues; 
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          11
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    embedding
centers, slide stainers to highlight abnormal cells for microscopic examination
and diagnosis; coverslippers, such as the Microm CTM6, which places glass
slipcovers on slides at a high capacity of approximately 450 slides per hour;
and cassette and slide labelers for identifying specimens. The Shandon
CytospinTM 4
Cytocentrifuge uses low-speed centrifugation technology to concentrate and
deposit a thin layer of cells onto a microscope slide to ensure better cell
capture and better preservation of cell morphology. The Shandon ExcelsiorTM
provides a fully automatic solution for tissue processing and reagent
storage/handling. For efficient handling and accurate identification of
histology and cytology specimens, we offer a comprehensive line of cassette and
slide labelers, including the Shandon Laser MicroWriterTM
developed specifically for anatomical pathology. The Laser MicroWriter prints 1D
and 2D barcodes, text, logos and graphics in 26 different fonts at a speed of 1
to 2 seconds per slide and is designed to handle high-volume workloads in
clinical or research laboratories. Other histology products include the Shandon
FinesseTM + line
of microtomes for paraffin or resin sectioning, the Shandon CryotomeTM Series
of cryostats for frozen sections and the Shandon VaristainTM line of
slide stainers for cell morphology highlights.
    
    Slide/Specialty
Glass
    
    Thermo Fisher manufactures flat-sheet
glass to produce medical disposable products such as microscope slides, plates,
cover glass and microarray substrates serving the medical, diagnostics and
scientific communities.
    
    Other
Diagnostics
    
    We also provide diagnostic testing
services for certain neurological, renal and endocrine disorders to physicians,
hospital laboratories and reference laboratories under our Athena Diagnostics
brand.
    
    Environmental
Instruments
    
    Our environmental analysis
instrumentation offers innovative technologies for complying with government
regulations and industry safety standards, or responding to a hazardous material
situation, including air and water quality monitoring, gas and particulate
detection, and radiation detection and analysis. Our instruments include
portable and fixed instrumentation used to help our customers protect people and
the environment, with particular focus on environmental compliance, product
quality, worker safety and security. Key end markets include fossil fuel and
nuclear-powered electric generation facilities, federal and state agencies such
as the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), first responders such as the New
York Police Department, national laboratories such as Los Alamos, general
commercial and academic laboratories, transportation security for sites such as
ports and airports, and other industrial markets such as pulp and paper and
petrochemical. Our instrumentation is used in three primary applications: air
quality monitoring and gas detection, water quality and aqueous solutions
analysis, and radiation measurement and protection.
    
    Air
Quality Monitoring and Gas Detection
    
    We are a leader in air quality
instruments for ambient air and continuous emissions monitoring. Primary markets
and customers include environmental regulatory agencies, emissions generating
industries such as power generation and pulp and paper, first responders and
industrial customers with Occupational Safety and Health Administration-related
gas detection requirements. Our instruments employ a variety of leading
analytical techniques, such as chemiluminescence, which uses the light emission
from chemical reactions to detect common air pollutants such as nitrogen dioxide
at the parts-per-trillion level. The iSeriesTM family
of analyzers uses various optical detection technologies to monitor
parts-per-billion levels of regulated pollutants, such as ground level ozone and
sulfur dioxide. The TEOMTM series
of continuous particulate monitors utilizes a patented measurement technology to
detect airborne particulate matter with high sensitivity in a brief time period.
This monitoring capability allows the U.S. EPA and worldwide monitoring networks
to provide the public with Web-based access to the concentration levels of the
particulate matter of most concern to people susceptible to respiratory
conditions (such as the elderly and young children). Further, state and federal
environmental agencies, as well as environmental compliance officers at
facilities that release emissions into the air, use our stack gas monitoring
systems to 
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          12
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    ensure
that governmentally mandated standards are being met. The introduction of our
Mercury FreedomTM System
for the continuous monitoring of total gaseous mercury emissions from coal fired
power plants enables the U.S. power generation industry to monitor the
measurement of mercury. Our industrial hygiene products measure toxic gases such
as carbon monoxide and hydrogen sulfide, and hazardous chemicals such as
benzene. The instruments range from handheld monitors used at hazardous waste
sites for remediation activities, to general-purpose portable products for
personnel-exposure monitoring, to sophisticated fixed systems in industrial
facilities for early warning of unsafe combustible and toxic gas concentrations.
In addition to these core applications, our product portfolio includes
particulate monitoring instruments and leak-detection monitors.
    
    Water
Quality and Aqueous Solutions Analysis
    
    Our water analysis products are
recognized as high-quality meters, electrodes and solutions for the measurement
of pH, ions, conductivity and dissolved oxygen. Marketed under the OrionTM and
EutechTM product
names, our products are sold across a broad range of industries for a variety of
laboratory, field and process applications. Based on electrochemical sensing
technology, these products are used wherever the quality of water and
water-based products is critical. Primary applications include quality
assurance, environmental testing and regulatory compliance in end markets such
as general laboratories, life science, water and wastewater, food and beverage,
chemical, pharmaceutical and power generation.
    
    Radiation
Measurement and Protection
    
    Our radiation measurement and
protection instruments are used to monitor, detect and identify specific forms
of radiation in nuclear power, environmental, industrial, medical and security
applications. For example, power- generation facilities distribute our Mark
IITM
electronic pocket calculator-sized personal dosimeters to employees who work in
areas that may expose them to radiation to capture the legal dose of record to
which they are exposed on a daily basis. In addition, our customers use
contamination monitors, such as our PCM2TM, in
at-risk locations around their facilities to monitor radiation. A variety of our
detectors are used to monitor radiation levels and dosage using gross gamma
detection technologies. Our product portfolio includes handheld survey meters
and vehicle and pedestrian portals used to stop illicit transport of radioactive
material. Environmental and contamination monitors are used by nuclear power
plants to ensure worker safety.
    
    Our security instruments and systems
include a comprehensive range of stationary and portable instruments used for
chemical and radiation detection. These instruments are based upon analytical
technologies used in our core markets that we have refined for the specific
needs of the security market, including key customers like the Department of
Homeland Security, the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy and first
responders. Our instruments, including the new handheld RadEyeTM
personal radiation detector (PRD) and PackEyeTM
backpack style device for discreet, rapid detection of gamma-emitting
radioactive sources in large areas, are used for the detection and prevention of
terrorist acts at airports, embassies, cargo facilities, border crossings and
other high-threat locations, as well as at major events such as the Olympics.
For example, Thermo Fisher provides the latest generation of radiation detection
systems, known as Advanced Spectroscopic Portals (ASPs), to the U.S. Department
of Homeland Security’s Domestic Nuclear Detection Office (DNDO). Deployment of
these systems at port and border locations globally is designed to detect and
deter the importation of illicit nuclear devices or radiological materials. The
ASPs are designed to allow Customs and other agencies to instantly detect and
identify sources of radiation to a specific energy fingerprint, thus increasing
the probability of deterring a threat, without a slowdown in
commerce.
    
    Process
Instruments
    
    Our Process Instruments products
include online instrumentation solutions and services that provide regulatory
inspection; quality control; package integrity; process measurements; precise
temperature control; physical, elemental and compositional analysis; surface and
thickness measurements; remote communications; and flow and blend optimization.
We serve a wide variety of global industries including oil and gas,
petrochemical, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, consumer products, power
generation, metal, cement, minerals and mining, semiconductor and polymer. Our
products are typically used in mission-critical manufacturing applications that
require high levels of reliability and robustness. Our Process Instruments
include six principal product lines: compliance testing, material
characterization, materials and minerals, portable elemental analysis, process
systems, and weighing and inspection.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          13
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Compliance
Testing
    
    Through our compliance testing product
lines we provide simulation and verification equipment for electronic components
and systems under the KeyTek brand based on pulsed EMI (Electromagnetic
Interference) technology. This business provides electronic components and
systems-testing solutions for original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and
independent testing labs. Our products and solutions are capable of testing EMC
(Electromagnetic Compatibility) and ESD (Electrostatic Discharge) at the systems
and discrete package levels to assist our customers in complying with various
industry standards.
    
    In 2007, we acquired Oryx Instruments,
a manufacturer of ESD, latch-up and TLP (Transmission Line Pulse) test systems
for the worldwide semiconductor market. This acquisition enhanced our range of
test systems.
    
    Material
Characterization
    
    Our materials characterization product
lines include instruments that help our customers analyze materials for
viscosity, surface tension and thermal properties. For instance, our Thermo
Scientific Haake-MARSTM and
Thermo Scientific Haake-POLYLABTM
products accurately and flexibly measure a wide range of rheological properties
in the lab and in process applications. These measurement platforms use open
standards and have the ability to connect to a range of sensors and systems. Our
extruders and blenders meet R&D, small-scale production, quality control and
pharmaceutical needs.
    
    Materials
and Minerals
    
    Our materials and minerals product line
includes online bulk material analysis systems, such as the Thermo Scientific CB
OmniTM and
Thermo Scientific CQMTM
products for the coal, cement, minerals and other bulk material handling
markets. These products employ proprietary, ultrahigh-speed, non-invasive
measurement technologies that use neutron activation and measurement of gamma
rays to analyze, in real time, the physical and chemical properties of raw
material streams. This eliminates the need for off-line sampling, and enables
real-time online optimization, for instance, allowing the customer to optimally
blend raw materials to control sulfur and ash in coal fired utilities. Our
gauging products are used online to measure the total thickness, basis weight
and coating thickness of flat-sheet materials, such as metal strip, plastics,
foil, rubber, glass, paper and other web-type products. Our gauging line uses
ionizing and non-ionizing technologies, including our proprietary non-ionizing
technology called FSIRTM, to
perform high-speed, real-time, non-invasive measurements. We also provide
process control instruments that monitor nuclear flux inside a reactor helping
our nuclear power customers operate their plants in a safe and optimal
manner.
    
    Portable
Elemental Analysis
    
    Our line of products also include the
Thermo Scientific Niton portable XRF analyzers. These portable elemental
analyzers are state-of-the-art handheld instruments offering high-performance
analysis of metal alloys for positive material identification, scrap metal
recycling, quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) and precious metals
analysis, as well as analysis of soils and sediments, environmental monitoring,
lead screening in consumer products, lead in paint assessment, geochemical
mapping and coatings/plating analysis. The NITON XL3 product platform is
designed for the rapid on-site testing of metals for numerous industrial
applications, including mining, coatings, precious metals and powder
samples.
    
    Process
Systems
    
    Our process systems products help oil
and gas, refining, steel and other customers optimize their processes. These
instruments provide measurements that help improve efficiency, provide process
and quality control, maintain regulatory compliance and increase worker safety.
For instance, our gas flow computers support custody transfer applications in
the production and transmission of natural gas; our Thermo Scientific
KRILPROTM nuclear
interface level gauge is used in extremely harsh coker applications for
petroleum refining; 
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          14
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    our
Thermo Scientific MOLATM
analyzer helps our customers measure moisture in extreme applications like coke
used in metal foundries, and our Thermo Scientific PrimaTM line of
process mass spectrometers helps our customers detect minute constituents in
process gases. These systems provide real-time direct and remote data
collection, analysis and local control functions using a variety of
technologies, including radiation, radar, ultrasonic and vibration measurement
principles, gas chromatography and mass spectrometry. Our Thermo Scientific
SOLATM line of
products, based on pulsed UV fluorescence technology, is an online sulfur
analyzer used by refiners to bring clean fuels to consumers. We have extended
the applications for SOLA to include online sulfur detection in the
petrochemical environment, including flare gas composition and catalyst
protection.
    
    Weighing
and Inspection
    
    Our weighing and inspection products
serve the food and beverage, pharmaceutical packaging and bulk material handling
industries. For the food and beverage and pharmaceutical markets, we provide
solutions to help our customers attain safety and quality standards. Based on a
variety of technologies, such as X-ray imaging and ultratrace chemical
detection, our products are used to inspect packaged goods for physical
contaminants, validate fill quantities, or check for missing or broken parts.
For example, our Thermo Scientific APEXTM line of
metal detectors uses non-invasive, high-speed, flux technology to inspect
packaged products; our Thermo Scientific VersaWeigh™ line of checkweighers is
used to weigh packages on high-speed packaging lines; our Thermo Scientific
InScanTM line
uses X-ray imaging to enable our customers to inspect canned or bottled
beverages at very high speeds; and the Thermo Scientific PureAquaTM line
provides online-sniffing technology to inspect recycled bottles for traces of
contaminants before refilling. We also provide bulk material handling products
such as belt scales, flow meters, safety switches and detectors to enable
solids-flow-monitoring, level measurements, personnel safety, and spillage
prevention for a wide variety of processing applications in the food, minerals,
coal, cement and other bulk solids handling markets.
    
    
    Laboratory
Products and Services Segment
    
    Through our Laboratory Products and
Services segment, we offer a combination of products and services that allows
our customers to engage in their core business functions of research,
development, manufacturing, clinical diagnosis and drug discovery more
accurately, rapidly and cost effectively. We serve the pharmaceutical,
biotechnology, academic, government and other research and industrial markets,
as well as the clinical laboratory and healthcare industries. This segment has
six principal product groupings – Laboratory Equipment, Laboratory Consumables,
Research Market, Healthcare Market, Safety Market and BioPharma Services – and
provides products and integrated solutions for various scientific challenges
that support many facets of life science research, clinical diagnosis and
workplace safety. Specifically, our Laboratory Equipment products consist
primarily of sample preparation, controlled environment storage and handling
equipment as well as laboratory workstations; our Laboratory Consumables include
consumables, tubes and containers for sample preparation, analysis and sample
storage. Our Research Market offers a wide variety of proprietary and
third-party chemicals, instruments and apparatus, liquid handling pumps and
devices, capital equipment and consumables; our Healthcare Market offers
proprietary and third-party analytical equipment, diagnostic tools and reagents
and consumables; our Safety Market offers proprietary and third-party workplace
and first responder equipment, protective gear and apparel; and our BioPharma
Services offerings include packaging, warehousing and distribution services,
labeling, pharmaceutical and biospecimen storage, and analytical laboratory
services primarily in the area of drug discovery and pharmaceutical clinical
trials.
    
    In the Research Market, the Fisher
Scientific catalog has been published for nearly 100 years and is an
internationally recognized scientific supply resource. In the Research,
Healthcare and Safety Markets, we publish more than 3 million copies of our
various catalogs each year in eight different languages. Our e-commerce product
references are showcased by our website, www.fishersci.com, which is
a leading e-commerce site supporting the scientific research community. The
website contains product content for more than 320,000 products. We maintain an
international network of warehouses in our primary markets through which we
maintain inventory and coordinate product delivery. With specialized
product vaults and temperature controlled storage capacity, we are able to
handle the complete range of products we offer to our customers. Our
transportation capabilities include our 
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          15
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    dedicated
fleet of delivery vehicles as well as parcel shipping capabilities that are
closely integrated with our third-party parcel carriers. Throughout the
product delivery process, we provide our customers with convenient access to
comprehensive electronic systems allowing for automated catalog search, product
order and invoicing and payment capabilities.
    
    We deliver our products through
third-party carriers and our dedicated fleet of delivery vehicles. Third-party
carriers include United Parcel Service (UPS), Federal Express, DHL and other
carriers, including national and regional trucking firms, overnight carrier
services and the U.S. Postal Service.
    
    Laboratory
Equipment
    
    Our Laboratory Equipment products and
integrated solutions are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug
discovery and development, and by biotechnology companies and universities for
life science research to advance the prevention and cure of diseases and enhance
the quality of life.
    
    We provide a broad range of equipment
that is used for the preparation and preservation of chemical and biological
samples, primarily for pharmaceutical, academic, clinical and government
customers. Products include incubators that are used in biological experiments
to allow growth of cells and organisms in optimal conditions of temperature,
carbon dioxide and humidity. These are sold under various product line names
including FormaTM and
HeraeusTM.
    
    We also offer a wide range of
centrifuges, which are used to separate biological matrices and inorganic
materials. Our microcentrifuges are primarily used for the purification of
nucleic acids in the molecular biology laboratory, our general use benchtop
centrifuges are suitable for processing clinical samples such as blood and
urine, and our floor models are used for large volume blood processing or in
laboratories with high-throughput needs. Our super-speed and ultra-speed models
are used for applications such as protein purification. Our centrifuges are sold
under various product line names including SorvallTM,
IECTM and
Heraeus.
    
    We have a broad range of water
purification products and technologies that serve the pharmaceutical, academic,
industrial research and clinical testing markets. The different technologies
(distillation, reverse osmosis, deionization, ultrafiltration, membrane
filtration and the use of UV) allow for the systems to accept various incoming
water qualities from around the world and deliver a range of water qualities for
a wide variety of laboratory applications. These applications range from Type II
water typically used to feed water baths or glassware washers to distilled water
to Type I (extremely high-purity water), for use in hydrating reagents and
buffers. In addition, for the most sensitive techniques requiring pyrogen-free,
free of trace metals or low Total Organic Carbon (TOC) we offer integrated
specialty treatments. These are sold under the product line name of
BarnsteadTM.
    
    Our shakers, stirrers and stirring
hotplates, water baths and dry blocks, ovens, furnaces, heating mantles, tapes,
mats and temperature monitoring devices, including thermometers, are offered in
a range of sizes, temperatures and configurations for life science, analytical
chemistry and quality control applications where temperature uniformity and
control are critical. These are sold under various product line names including
Barnstead, PrecisionTM,
Heraeus, Blue MTM and
VariomagTM.
    
    We offer thermal cyclers for the
amplification of nucleic acids by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or reverse
transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR). These are sold under the product line name of
HybaidTM.
    
    Our centrifugal vacuum concentrators
assist researchers in evaporating organic solvents, acids and buffers from their
samples and have a wide range of applications in the preparation of
deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), oligomers, plasmid preparation and the purification
of pharmaceutical compounds. Our freeze dryers are used to lyophilize drugs,
plants or tissues for long-term room temperature or refrigerated storage often
retaining biological activity and the original cellular structure upon
re-hydration. These products are sold under the SavantTM and
JouanTM product
line names.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          16
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    We are leaders in cold temperature
storage equipment, ranging from laboratory refrigerators and freezers to
ultralow temperature freezers and cryopreservation storage tanks, which are used
primarily for storing samples in a cold environment to protect from degradation.
These systems may be customized to accommodate specific equipment, allowing
reactions (such as chromatography) to be run under low-temperature conditions.
These products are sold under various product line names including Forma,
RevcoTM,
HarrisTM,
JewettTM,
Barnstead, Heraeus and Jouan.
    
    Our biological safety cabinets enable
technicians to handle samples without risk to themselves or their environment
and without risk of cross-contamination of samples. Equipped with filtered air
ventilation, controlled laminar flow and an ultraviolet source, biological
safety cabinets can be used for tissue culture, IVF, infectious samples,
forensic analysis or bioterrorism research. These products are sold under
various product line names including Forma and Heraeus.
    
    We provide a range of steam sterilizers
for sterilizing biological samples and laboratory tools that are primarily used
by pharmaceutical, clinical and academic customers. These products are sold
under the Forma product line name.
    
    Through our control technologies
product line we are a leading manufacturer of precision temperature control
products for global industrial and laboratory markets. The temperature-control
product line includes the NESLABTM and
HAAKETM lines
of heated/refrigerated circulating baths, immersion coolers and re-circulating
chillers. Customers use these products to control highly critical manufacturing
processes, such as semiconductor manufacturing operations or
pharmaceutical-grade extrusion lines.
    
    We also manufacture private label and
OEM versions of certain of our product lines.
    
    We are a major supplier of laboratory
workstations and fume hoods for either new construction or laboratory
renovation. Our product offerings include steel, wood and plastic laminate
casework systems, adaptable furniture systems, chemical ventilation fume hoods
and chemical storage cabinets and various other laboratory fixtures and
accessories. Laboratory workstation products are sold under the names of Fisher
HamiltonTM,
HorizonTM,
ConceptTM,
SafeAireTM and
PioneerTM.
    
    We supply internet, phone and field
technical support and service for laboratory equipment including installation,
maintenance, repair and training on a worldwide basis via a network of internal
phone support technicians and field-based service technicians as well as
third-party service providers.
    
    Laboratory
Consumables
    
    We manufacture and sell glass and plastics
consumables and certain related equipment to entities conducting scientific
research, including drug discovery and drug development, quality and process
control, clinical and basic research and development.
    
    We are a leading supplier of sample
tubes, containers and vessels, in a variety of plastics and glass and in a wide
range of volumes for all types of life science, analytical and clinical
analysis. Included in this offering are microwell plates ranging from a single
well to 1,536 wells for applications ranging from tissue culture to primary and
secondary screening in drug discovery. The geometry of the wells, the type of
plastic resin, the surface treatments or filtration membrane in the devices vary
to serve a number of applications for maximizing cell growth, sample
concentration within the well or reduce background fluorescence or non-specific
binding. These products are sold under various brand names including
NalgeneTM,
NuncTM,
MBPTM,
Capitol VialTM and
SamcoTM.
    
    Accurate measurement and dispensing of
samples and reagents is critical in a variety of industrial, academic,
government, and clinical laboratories. We have a wide variety of single and
multiple channel pipetting tools from manual to highly automated, covering a
wide volume range. The ergonomics of these devices are important to the comfort
of researchers handling numerous samples and pipetting steps on a daily basis.
Due to sample cross-contamination concerns, the tips of the pipettes are
disposable and a separate tip is used for each sample. These products are sold
under various brands and product line names including FinnpipetteTM,
MatrixTM, MBP
and QSPTM.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          17
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    We have tubes specific to
centrifugation in various sizes to fit the volume and centrifugal speed
requirements of the sample. In addition, we are the leaders in sample storage
vials and organization systems for ultralow temperature and cryogenic storage,
offering specific products for low protein binding (CryobankTM) and
low DNA binding (Bank itTM). These
products are sold under various brands including Nalgene, Nunc and
Matrix.
    
    We are the leading provider of tissue
culture filtration and growth vessels. Our products are used by researchers for
growth of tissue culture and can be scaled up to biomanufacturing of vaccines or
monoclonal antibodies using Cell Factory products. The sterility of samples and
growth media is critical to the viability of the cells. These products are sold
under various brands including Nalgene and Nunc.
    
    Research
Market
    
    Our Research Market offerings include a
wide range of products and services from a single source designed to allow our
customers to engage more accurately and efficiently in laboratory research and
development throughout the world. Our customers represent all industries
requiring any level of laboratory research, including but not limited to the
pharmaceutical, biotech, food and agriculture, government, academic and
manufacturing industries.
    
    Our products include all forms of
laboratory products, ranging from capital equipment and instruments to chemicals
to consumable products. We offer a mix of products that are manufactured by
Thermo Fisher, that are manufactured by third parties for us on a private-label
basis, and that are manufactured by third parties under their brand but offered
for sale exclusively through us. We also offer a broad range of third-party
products representing leading industry brand names on a non-exclusive
basis.
    
    Our biennial catalog consists of more
than 40,000 products. Beyond our catalog, we offer our customers access to more
than 650,000 products. Our e-commerce website, www.fishersci.com, has been an
industry-leading online ordering and reference tool since its inception in the
1990s.
    
    In addition to our broad product
offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through
our Managed Services team. Services provided to customers include dedicated
logistics personnel who manage inventory and provide desktop delivery,
coordinate instrument calibration and service, facilitate glass washing, provide
on-site customer service and deliver other services that allow our customers to
focus on their core research activities.
    
    Healthcare
Market
    
    Our Healthcare Market offerings include
a broad array of consumables, diagnostic kits and reagents, equipment,
instruments, solutions and services for hospitals, clinical laboratories,
reference laboratories, physicians’ offices and other clinical testing
facilities. These products are manufactured by Thermo Fisher and third
parties.
    
    Healthcare Market products and
solutions focus on the collection, transportation and analysis of biological
samples. Major product lines include anatomical pathology, molecular diagnostic
and cardiac risk management solutions, along with blood collection devices,
consumable vials and transportation devices, as well as an extensive portfolio
of rapid diagnostic testing devices for drugs-of-abuse testing and diagnosis and
monitoring of cancer, endocrine function and cardiovascular, gastrointestinal,
nervous system, respiratory and sexually transmitted diseases. The Healthcare
Market core product offering also includes high-end diagnostic instruments and
equipment together with the reagents used in those instruments and equipment to
perform diagnostic tests. Sales in the healthcare market are fueled by the
administration and evaluation of diagnostic tests. We believe that the aging
population, as well as the increased demand for the development of new specialty
diagnostic tests, will result in increased market growth.
    
    In addition to our broad product
offering, we offer a variety of specialized services to our customers through
our Managed Services team. Services provided to customers include dedicated
logistics personnel that manage inventory, provide on-site customer service, and
deliver other services that allow our customers to focus on their core
responsibilities.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          18
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Safety
Market
    
    Through our Safety Market we supply
safety-related products to various industries including laboratory research,
industrial manufacturing, healthcare, universities, food/agriculture,
environmental and petrochemical as well as government and municipal agencies,
fire departments and military units. Products offered to these markets include:
cleanroom and controlled-environment supplies; personal protective equipment
such as respirators, clothing, gloves, hardhats, hearing protection and eyewear;
fall protection harnesses and restraints; self-contained breathing apparatus;
specialized firefighting and military equipment and supplies; environmental
monitoring and sampling equipment; and first responder supplies and equipment
such as decontamination tents, bio-isolation systems, chemical protective suits
and emergency response trailers. We offer products mainly manufactured by third
parties as well as those manufactured by Thermo Fisher.
    
    We also provide access to a broad
offering of training, equipment servicing and on-site inventory management
support through our dedicated safety sales professionals, equipment service
employees and on-site customer support teams. Our goal is to provide a total
solution of products, training and support to our customers.
    
    BioPharma
Services
    
    Our BioPharma Services offerings
include global services for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies engaged
in clinical trials, including specialized packaging, over-encapsulation,
multi-lingual and specialized labeling and distribution for phase I through
phase IV clinical trials, analytical testing, biological-specimen
management, as well as specialty pharmaceutical logistics and clinical
supply-chain management. Thermo Fisher’s biorepository business provides
temperature-controlled repository services for pharmaceutical, biotechnology,
university, government, clinical and blood-processing customers. Our
biorepository services business stores millions of pharmacological and
biospecimen samples at commercial sites in the United States and the United
Kingdom. Additional services include inventory management, validation, business
continuity, and repository management and transportation capabilities resulting
in a complete cold chain sample management solution.
    
    Services are offered throughout the
world, with operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Switzerland and
Singapore. Expansion of our activities is under way into India, Latin America
and China. Most services are offered under the Fisher Clinical ServicesTM, Fisher
Bioservices™, Lancaster LaboratoriesTM or
Priority Solutions™ brands.
    
    On October 3, 2007, the company’s
Laboratory Products and Services segment acquired Priority Solutions
International, a leading U.S.-based third-party logistics provider to the
pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. The acquisition broadened the
segment’s clinical trials management services offerings.
    
    Sales
and Marketing
    
    We market and sell our products and
services through a direct sales force, customer-service professionals,
electronic commerce, third-party distributors and various catalogs.
    
    We have approximately 7,500 sales and
service professionals including over 1,000 highly trained technical specialists
who enable us to better meet the needs of our more technical end-users. We also
provide customers with an efficient ordering system, product standardization and
other supply-chain-management services to reduce procurement costs.
    
    New
Products and Research and Development
    
    Our business includes the development
and introduction of new products and may include entry into new business
segments. We are not currently committed to any new products that require the
investment of a material amount of our funds, nor do we have any definitive
plans to enter new businesses that would require such an
investment.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          19
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    During 2007, 2006 and 2005, we spent
$239 million, $170 million and $153 million, respectively, on research and
development, excluding a charge in 2006 of $15 million for in-process research
and development at the date of the merger with Fisher.
    
    Raw
Materials
    
    Our management team believes that we
have a readily available supply of raw materials for all of our significant
products from various sources. We do not anticipate any difficulties obtaining
the raw materials essential to our business. Raw-material and fuel prices are
subject to fluctuations due to market conditions. We employ many strategies,
including the use of alternative materials and the use of derivative
instruments, to mitigate the effect of these fluctuations on our
results.
    
    Patents,
Licenses and Trademarks
    
    Patents are important in both segments
of our business. No particular patent, or related group of patents, is so
important, however, that its loss would significantly affect our operations as a
whole. Where appropriate, we seek patent protection for inventions and
developments made by our personnel and incorporated into our products or
otherwise falling within our fields of interest. Patent rights resulting from
work sponsored by outside parties do not always accrue exclusively to the
company and may be limited by agreements or contracts.
    
    We protect some of our technology as
trade secrets and, where appropriate, we use trademarks or register trademarks
used in connection with products. We also enter into license agreements with
others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how.
    
    Seasonal
Influences
    
    Revenues in the fourth calendar quarter
are historically stronger than in the other quarters due to capital spending
patterns of industrial, pharmaceutical and government customers.
    
    Working
Capital Requirements
    
    There are no special inventory
requirements or credit terms extended to customers that would have a material
adverse effect on our working capital.
    
    Dependency
on a Single Customer
    
    There is no single customer the loss of
which would have a material adverse effect on our business. No customer
accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in any of the past three
years.
    
    Backlog
    
    Our backlog of firm orders at year-end
2007 and 2006 was as follows:
    
    
      
          
            
              (In
      millions)
            
             
            
              2007
            
             
            
              2006
            
             
          
          
             
      
             
             
             
             
             
          
          
            
              Analytical
      Technologies
            
             
            $
            805.0
             
            $
            717.6
             
          
          
            
              Laboratory
      Products and Services
            
             
             
            476.0
             
             
            365.8
             
          
          
             
      
             
             
             
             
             
             
             
          
          
             
      
             
            $
            1,281.0
             
            $
            1,083.4
             
          
      
    
    
    We believe that virtually all of our
backlog at the end of 2007 will be filled during 2008. The increase in backlog
in 2007 is principally due to increased demand.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          20
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Government
Contracts
    
    Although the company transacts business
with various government agencies, no government contract is of such magnitude
that a renegotiation of profits or termination of the contract at the election
of the government agency would have a material adverse effect on the company’s
financial results.
    
    Competition
    
    General
    
    The company encounters aggressive and
able competition in virtually all of the markets we serve. Because of the
diversity of our products and services, we face many different types of
competitors and competition. Our competitors include a broad range of
manufacturers and third-party distributors. In general, competitive climates in
the markets we serve are characterized by changing technology and customer
demands that require continuing research and development. Our success in these
markets primarily depends on the following factors:
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              technical
      performance and advances in technology that result in new products and
      improved price/performance ratios;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              product
      differentiation, availability and
reliability;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              our
      broad product offering;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              our
      reputation among customers as a quality provider of products and
      services;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              customer
      service and support;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              active
      research and application-development programs;
  and
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              relative
      prices of our products and
services.
            
          
      
    
    
    Environmental
Matters
    
    We are subject to various laws and
governmental regulations concerning environmental matters and employee safety
and health in the United States and other countries. U.S. federal
environmental legislation that affects us includes the Toxic Substances Control
Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean
Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental
Response Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA). We are also subject to
regulation by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)
concerning employee safety and health matters. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), OSHA, and other federal agencies have the authority to
promulgate regulations that have an effect on our operations.
    
    In addition to these federal
activities, various states have been delegated certain authority under the
aforementioned federal statutes as well as having authority over these matters
under state laws. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental
and employee safety and health laws and regulations, some of which are similar
to federal requirements.
    
    A number of our operations involve the
handling, manufacturing, use or sale of substances that are or could be
classified as toxic or hazardous materials within the meaning of applicable
laws. Consequently, some risk of environmental harm is inherent in our
operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar
businesses.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          21
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Our expenses for environmental
requirements are incurred generally for ongoing compliance and historical
remediation matters. Based on current information, we believe that these
compliance costs are not material. For historical remediation obligations, our
expenditures relate primarily to the cost of permitting, installing, and
operating and maintaining groundwater-treatment systems and other remedial
measures.
    
    Our Fair Lawn and Somerville, New
Jersey, facilities are the subject of administrative consent orders issued by
the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection in 1984. Our Rockford,
Illinois, facility is subject to a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)
corrective action program administered by the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency. We are required to maintain groundwater-remediation activities at these
sites. As the owner of the Fair Lawn facility, we are listed as a potentially
responsible party for remediation within an area called the Fair Lawn Wellfields
Superfund Site. This site was listed in 1983 on the National Priority List under
CERCLA. Both New Jersey sites are also the subjects of CERCLA National Resources
Damages claims.
    
    We record accruals for environmental
liabilities based on current interpretations of environmental laws and
regulations when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the
amount of such liability can be reasonably estimated. We calculate estimates
based upon several factors, including reports prepared by environmental
specialists and management’s knowledge and experience with these environmental
matters. We include in these estimates potential costs for investigation,
remediation and operation and maintenance of cleanup sites. Accrued liabilities
for environmental matters totaled $23 million at December 31, 2007 and were not
material prior to the merger with Fisher. The liability for environmental
matters associated with Fisher was recorded at the date of merger at its fair
value and as such was discounted to its net present value.
    
    These environmental liabilities do not
include third-party recoveries to which we may be entitled. We believe that our
accrual is adequate for the environmental liabilities we currently expect to
incur. As a result, we believe that our ultimate liability with respect to
environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. However, we may be subject to
additional remedial or compliance costs due to future events, such as changes in
existing laws and regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement
policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of
our operations, and the effect of changes in accounting rules, which could have
a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.
    
    Regulatory
Affairs
    
    Our operations, and some of the
products we offer, are subject to a number of complex and stringent laws and
regulations governing the production, handling, transportation and distribution
of chemicals, drugs and other similar products, including the operating and
security standards of the United States Drug Enforcement Administration, the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, the Food and Drug
Administration, and various state boards of pharmacy as well as comparable state
and foreign agencies. As Thermo Fisher’s businesses also include export and
import activities, we are subject to pertinent laws enforced by the
U.S. Departments of Commerce, State and Treasury. In addition, our
logistics activities must comply with the rules and regulations of the
Department of Transportation, the Federal Aviation Administration and similar
foreign agencies. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects
with such laws and regulations, any noncompliance could result in substantial
fines or otherwise restrict our ability to provide competitive distribution
services and thereby have an adverse effect on our financial condition. To date,
none has had a material impact on our operations.
    
    We are subject to laws and regulations
governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws and
regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by
leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. We have
agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and, as a
result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to
companies doing business with the government. We are also subject to
investigation for compliance with the regulations governing government
contracts. A failure to comply with these regulations could result in suspension
of these contracts, criminal, civil and administrative penalties or
debarment.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          22
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Number
of Employees
    
    As of December 31, 2007, we had
approximately 33,000 employees.
    
    Financial
Information About Geographic Areas
    
    Financial information about geographic
areas is summarized in Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which
begin on page F-1 of this report.
    
    Available
Information
    
    The company files annual, quarterly and
current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) under the Exchange Act. The public may read and copy
any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at
100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.
Also, the SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information that issuers, including the company, file
electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that we file
with the SEC at www.sec.gov. We also make available free of charge on or through
our own website at www.thermofisher.com our Annual Report on Form 10-K,
Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and, if applicable,
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the
Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, paper copies of these
documents may be obtained free of charge by writing to the company care of its
Investor Relations Department at our principal executive office located at 81
Wyman Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 02451.
    
    Executive
Officers of the Registrant
    
    
      
          
            
              Name
            
             
      
            
              Age
            
             
      
            
              Present
      Title (Fiscal Year First Became Executive Officer)
            
          
          
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
             
      
          
          
            
              Marijn
      E. Dekkers
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              President
      and Chief Executive Officer (2000)
            
          
          
            
              Marc
      N. Casper
            
             
      
            
              39
            
             
      
            
              Executive
      Vice President (2001)
            
          
          
            
              Guy
      Broadbent
            
             
      
            
              44
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President (2001)
            
          
          
            
              Seth
      H. Hoogasian
            
             
      
            
              53
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary (2001)
            
          
          
            
              Alan
      J. Malus
            
             
      
            
              48
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President (2006)
            
          
          
            
              Alexander
      G. Stachtiaris
            
             
      
            
              43
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President, Global Business Services (2008)
            
          
          
            
              Stephen
      G. Sheehan
            
             
      
            
              52
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President, Human Resources (2003)
            
          
          
            
              Fredric
      T. Walder
            
             
      
            
              50
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President, Commercial Excellence (2006)
            
          
          
            
              Peter
      M. Wilver
            
             
      
            
              48
            
             
      
            
              Senior
      Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (2003)
            
          
          
            
              Peter
      E. Hornstra
            
             
      
            
              48
            
             
      
            
              Vice
      President and Chief Accounting Officer
(2001)
            
          
      
    
    
    Mr. Dekkers was appointed Chief
Executive Officer in November 2002 and President in July 2000. He was Chief
Operating Officer from July 2000 to November 2002.
    
    Mr. Casper was appointed Executive Vice
President in November 2006. He was Senior Vice President from December 2003 to
November 2006. He was President, Life and Laboratory Sciences from December 2001
to March 2005. He was Vice President of Thermo from December 2001 to December
2003.
    
    Mr. Broadbent was appointed Senior Vice
President in November 2006. He was President, Laboratory Equipment from November
2004 to November 2006, and Vice President of Thermo from January 2001 to
November 2004. He was President, Spectra-Physics Division from December 2003 to
July 2004 and was President, Optical Technologies from October 2000 to December
2003.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          23
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Mr. Hoogasian was appointed Senior Vice
President in November 2006, Secretary in 2001 and General Counsel in 1992. He
was Vice President from 1996 to November 2006.
    
    Mr. Malus was appointed
Senior Vice President in November 2006. Prior to Thermo’s merger with Fisher,
Mr. Malus was group president of distribution and services for Fisher, where he
focused on growing the company’s customer channel businesses serving research,
healthcare, education and safety markets. Mr. Malus joined Fisher in 1998 and
has served in a variety of management roles.
    
    Mr. Stachtiaris was appointed
Senior Vice President, Global Business Services in February 2008. He was Senior
Vice President of Finance and Business Operations for the company’s
customer channel business from November 2006 to February 2008. Prior to Thermo’s
merger with Fisher, Mr. Stachtiaris was vice president of finance and corporate
controller for Fisher from February 2004 to November 2006. Prior to joining
Fisher, he was the senior vice president of finance for the pharmaceutical
distribution business of Cardinal Health from April 2000 to February
2004.
    
    Mr. Sheehan was appointed Senior Vice
President, Human Resources in November 2006. He was Vice President, Human
Resources from August 2001 to November 2006.
    
    Mr. Walder was appointed
Senior Vice President, Customer Excellence in May 2007. He was Senior Vice President,
Commercial Excellence from November 2006 to May 2007, President, Environmental
Instruments from April to November 2006, and President, Scientific Instruments
from December 2002 to April 2006. Mr. Walder joined Thermo in 1992 and has
served in a variety of management roles.
    
    Mr. Wilver was appointed Senior Vice
President in November 2006 and Chief Financial Officer in October 2004. He was
Vice President from October 2004 to November 2006, and Vice President, Financial
Operations from October 2000 to October 2004.
    
    Mr. Hornstra was appointed Vice
President in February 2007 and Chief Accounting Officer in January 2001. He was
Corporate Controller from January 1996 to February 2007.
    
    
      
          
            
              Item 1A.
            
            
              Risk
      Factors
            
          
      
    
    
    Set forth below are the risks that we
believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking
statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and
limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 3.
    
    We must develop new products, adapt
to rapid and significant technological change and respond to introductions of
new products in order to remain competitive. Our growth strategy includes
significant investment in and expenditures for product development. We sell our
products in several industries that are characterized by rapid and significant
technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and
enhancements and evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of
new products, services and enhancements, our products and services will likely
become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and
operating results would suffer.
    
    Development of our products requires
significant investment; our products and technologies could become uncompetitive
or obsolete. Our customers use many of our products to develop, test and
manufacture their own products. As a result, we must anticipate industry trends
and develop products in advance of the commercialization of our customers’
products. If we fail to adequately predict our customers’ needs and future
activities, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and
services that do not lead to significant revenue.
    
    Many of our existing products and those
under development are technologically innovative and require significant
planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and
manufacturing-process levels. These activities require us to make significant
investments.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          24
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Risk
Factors (continued)
    
    Products in our markets undergo rapid
and significant technological change because of quickly changing industry
standards and the introduction of new products and technologies that make
existing products and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. Our competitors
may adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customers’
requirements than we can. The products that we are currently developing, or
those we will develop in the future, may not be technologically feasible or
accepted by the marketplace, and our products or technologies could become
uncompetitive or obsolete.
    
    It may be difficult for us to
implement our strategies for improving internal growth. Some of the
markets in which we compete have been flat or declining over the past several
years. To address this issue, we are pursuing a number of strategies to improve
our internal growth, including:
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              finding
      new markets for our products;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              developing
      new applications for our
technologies;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              combining
      sales and marketing operations in appropriate markets to compete more
      effectively;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              allocating
      research and development funding to products with higher growth
      prospects;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              continuing
      key customer initiatives;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              expanding
      our service offerings;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              strengthening
      our presence in selected geographic markets;
and
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              continuing
      the development of commercial tools and infrastructure to increase and
      support cross-selling opportunities of products and services to take
      advantage of our breadth in product
offerings.
            
          
      
    
    
    We may not be able to successfully
implement these strategies, and these strategies may not result in the growth of
our business.
    
    The company may be unable to integrate
successfully the legacy businesses of Thermo Electron Corporation and Fisher
Scientific International Inc. and may be unable to realize the anticipated
benefits of the merger.
    
    The merger involved the combination of
two companies which previously operated as independent public companies. The
company is required to devote significant management attention and resources to
integrating its business practices and operations. Potential difficulties the
company may encounter in the integration process include the
following:
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              if
      we are unable to successfully combine the businesses of Thermo and Fisher
      in a manner that permits the company to achieve the cost savings and
      operating synergies anticipated to result from the merger, such
      anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or
      may take longer to realize than
expected;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              lost
      sales and customers as a result of certain customers of either of the two
      former companies deciding not to do business with the
    company;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              complexities
      associated with managing the combined
  businesses;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          25
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Risk
Factors (continued)
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              integrating
      personnel from diverse corporate cultures while maintaining focus on
      providing consistent, high quality products and customer
      service;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              potential
      unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated
      with the merger; and
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              inability
      to successfully execute a branding campaign for the combined
      company.
            
          
      
    
    
    In addition, it is possible that the
integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption or
interruption of, or the loss of momentum in, the company’s ongoing businesses or
inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which
could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and
employees or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or
could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and
financial results of the company.
    
    Our inability to protect our
intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business. In
addition, third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property,
and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a
result. We place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent and trade
secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes
because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products
through the development process and into the marketplace. Our success depends in
part on our ability to develop patentable products and obtain and enforce patent
protection for our products both in the United States and in other countries. We
own numerous U.S. and foreign patents, and we intend to file additional
applications, as appropriate, for patents covering our products. Patents may not
be issued for any pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to
us, and the claims allowed under any issued patents may not be sufficiently
broad to protect our technology. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us
may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and the rights under these
patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, competitors
may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. Intellectual
property rights may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries,
which could make it easier for competitors to capture increased market position.
We could incur substantial costs to defend ourselves in suits brought against us
or in suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others. An
unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could materially adversely affect our
business and results of operations.
    
    We also rely on trade secrets and
proprietary know-how with which we seek to protect our products, in part, by
confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees and consultants.
These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any
breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be
independently developed by our competitors.
    
    Third parties may assert claims against
us to the effect that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights.
For example, in September 2004 Applied Biosystems/MDS Scientific Instruments and
related parties brought a lawsuit against us alleging our mass spectrometer
systems infringe a patent held by the plaintiffs. We could incur substantial
costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, which
could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
results of operations. In addition, parties making these claims could secure a
judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable
relief, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell,
distribute, or market our products and services in the United States or abroad.
In the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against
us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that
relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual
property or challenge those patents. However, we may be unable to obtain these
licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the
patents may be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or
other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of our
products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          26
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Risk
Factors (continued)
    
    Demand for most of our products
depends on capital spending policies of our customers and on government funding
policies. Our customers include pharmaceutical and chemical companies,
laboratories, universities, healthcare providers, government agencies and public
and private research institutions. Many factors, including public policy
spending priorities, available resources and product and economic cycles, have a
significant effect on the capital spending policies of these entities. These
policies in turn can have a significant effect on the demand for our
products.
    
    Our results could be impacted if we
are unable to realize potential future benefits from new productivity
initiatives. We continue to pursue practical process improvement (PPI)
programs and other cost saving initiatives at our locations which are designed
to further enhance our productivity, efficiency and customer satisfaction. While
we anticipate continued benefits from these initiatives, future benefits are
expected to be fewer and smaller in size and may be more difficult to
achieve.
    
    Our business is impacted by general
economic conditions and related uncertainties affecting markets in which we
operate. Adverse economic conditions could adversely impact our business in 2008
and beyond, resulting in:
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              reduced
      demand for some of our products;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              increased
      rate of order cancellations or
delays;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              increased
      risk of excess and obsolete
inventories;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              increased
      pressure on the prices for our products and services;
  and
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              greater
      difficulty in collecting accounts
receivable.
            
          
      
    
    
    Changes in governmental regulations
may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete
in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state,
local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety
and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to
meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant change in
regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. For
example, many of our instruments are marketed to the pharmaceutical industry for
use in discovering and developing drugs. Changes in the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration’s regulation of the drug discovery and development process could
have an adverse effect on the demand for these products.
    
    If any of our security products fail
to detect explosives or radiation, we could be exposed to product liability and
related claims for which we may not have adequate insurance coverage. The
products sold by our environmental instruments business include a comprehensive
range of fixed and portable instruments used for chemical, radiation and trace
explosives detection. These products are used in airports, embassies, cargo
facilities, border crossings and other high-threat facilities for the detection
and prevention of terrorist acts. If any of these products were to malfunction,
it is possible that explosive or radioactive material could pass through the
product undetected, which could lead to product liability claims. There are also
many other factors beyond our control that could lead to liability claims, such
as the reliability and competence of the customers’ operators and the training
of such operators. Any such product liability claims brought against us could be
significant and any adverse determination may result in liabilities in excess of
our insurance coverage. Although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot
be certain that our current insurance will be sufficient to cover these claims
or that it can be maintained on acceptable terms, if at all.
    
    Our inability to successfully
identify and complete acquisitions or successfully integrate any new or previous
acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our
business strategy includes the acquisition of technologies and businesses that
complement or augment our existing products and services. Promising
acquisitions
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          27
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Risk
Factors (continued)
    
    are
difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including
competition among prospective buyers and the need for regulatory, including
antitrust, approvals. We may not be able to identify and successfully complete
transactions. Any acquisition we may complete may be made at a substantial
premium over the fair value of the net assets of the acquired company. Further,
we may not be able to integrate any acquired businesses successfully into our
existing businesses, make such businesses profitable, or realize anticipated
cost savings or synergies, if any, from these acquisitions, which could
adversely affect our business.
    
    Moreover, we have acquired many
companies and businesses. As a result of these acquisitions, we recorded
significant goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance
sheet, which amount to approximately $8.71 billion and $1.33 billion,
respectively, as of December 31, 2007. We assess the realizability of the
goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as well as whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets may be impaired.
These events or circumstances generally include operating losses or a
significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset.
Our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible
assets will depend on the future cash flows of these businesses. These cash
flows in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses. If
we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived
intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the
impairment of those assets.
    
    Our growth strategy to acquire new
businesses may not be successful and the integration of future acquisitions may
be difficult and disruptive to our ongoing operations.
    
    We have retained contingent
liabilities from businesses that we have sold. From 1997 through 2004, we
divested over 60 businesses with aggregate annual revenues in excess of $2
billion. As part of these transactions, we retained responsibility for some of
the contingent liabilities related to these businesses, such as lawsuits,
product liability and environmental claims and potential claims by buyers that
representations and warranties we made about the businesses were inaccurate. The
resolution of these contingencies has not had a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial condition; however, we can not be certain
that this favorable pattern will continue.
    
    As a multinational corporation, we
are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could adversely
affect our cash flows and results of operations. International revenues
account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and we intend to continue
expanding our presence in international markets. In 2007, our international
revenues from continuing operations, including export revenues from the United
States, accounted for approximately 35% of our total revenues. The exposure to
fluctuations in currency exchange rates takes on different forms. International
revenues are subject to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates could
adversely affect product demand and the profitability in U.S. dollars of
products and services provided by us in international markets, where payment for
our products and services is made in the local currency. As a multinational
corporation, our businesses occasionally invoice third-party customers in
currencies other than the one in which they primarily do business (the
“functional currency”). Movements in the invoiced currency relative to the
functional currency could adversely impact our cash flows and our results of
operations. In addition, reported sales made in non-U.S. currencies by our
international businesses, when translated into U.S. dollars for financial
reporting purposes, fluctuate due to exchange rate movement. Should our
international sales grow, exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates
could have a larger effect on our financial results. In 2007, currency
translation had a favorable effect on revenues of our continuing operations of
$241 million due to a weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies
in which the company sells products and services.
    
    We are subject to laws and
regulations governing government contracts, and failure to address these laws
and regulations or comply with government contracts could harm our business by
leading to a reduction in revenue associated with these customers. We
have agreements relating to the sale of our products to government entities and,
as a result, we are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to
companies doing business with the government. The laws governing government
contracts differ from the laws governing 
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          28
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Risk
Factors (continued)
    
    private
contracts and government contracts may contain pricing terms and conditions that
are not applicable to private contracts. We are also subject to investigation
for compliance with the regulations governing government contracts. A failure to
comply with these regulations could result in suspension of these contracts,
criminal, civil and administrative penalties or debarment.
    
    Because we compete directly with
certain of our largest customers and product suppliers, our results of
operations could be adversely affected in the short term if these customers or
suppliers abruptly discontinue or significantly modify their relationship with
us.
    
    Our largest customer in the laboratory
consumables business and our largest customer in the diagnostics business are
also significant competitors. Our business may be harmed in the short term if
our competitive relationship in the marketplace with these customers results in
a discontinuation of their purchases from us. In addition, we manufacture
products that compete directly with products that we source from third-party
suppliers. We also source competitive products from multiple suppliers. Our
business could be adversely affected in the short term if any of our large
third-party suppliers abruptly discontinues selling products to us.
    
    Because we rely heavily on
third-party package-delivery services, a significant disruption in these
services or significant increases in prices may disrupt our ability to ship
products, increase our costs and lower our profitability.
    
    We ship a significant portion of our
products to our customers through independent package delivery companies, such
as UPS and Federal Express in the U.S. and DHL in Europe. We also maintain a
small fleet of vehicles dedicated to the delivery of our products and ship our
products through other carriers, including national and regional trucking firms,
overnight carrier services and the U.S. Postal Service. If UPS or another
third-party package-delivery provider experiences a major work stoppage,
preventing our products from being delivered in a timely fashion or causing us
to incur additional shipping costs we could not pass on to our customers, our
costs could increase and our relationships with certain of our customers could
be adversely affected. In addition, if UPS or our other third-party
package-delivery providers increase prices, and we are not able to find
comparable alternatives or make adjustments in our delivery network, our
profitability could be adversely affected.
    
    We are subject to regulation by various
federal, state and foreign agencies that require us to comply with a wide
variety of regulations, including those regarding the manufacture of products,
the shipping of our products and environmental matters.
    
    Some of our operations are subject to
regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and similar international
agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from
design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and
distribution. If we fail to comply with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration’s
regulations or those of similar international agencies, we may have to recall
products and cease their manufacture and distribution, which would increase our
costs and reduce our revenues.
    
    We are subject to federal, state, local
and international laws and regulations that govern the handling, transportation,
manufacture, use or sale of substances that are or could be classified as toxic
or hazardous substances. Some risk of environmental damage is inherent in our
operations and the products we manufacture, sell or distribute. This requires us
to devote significant resources to maintain compliance with applicable
environmental laws and regulations, including the establishment of reserves to
address potential environmental costs, and manage environmental
risks.
    
    We rely heavily on manufacturing
operations to produce the products we sell, and our business could be adversely
affected by disruptions of our manufacturing operations.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          29
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Risk
Factors (continued)
    
    We rely upon our manufacturing
operations to produce many of the products we sell. Any significant disruption
of those operations for any reason, such as strikes or other labor unrest, power
interruptions, fire, earthquakes, or other events beyond our control could
adversely affect our sales and customer relationships and therefore adversely
affect our business. Although most of our raw materials are available from a
number of potential suppliers, our operations also depend upon our ability to
obtain raw materials at reasonable prices. If we are unable to obtain the
materials we need at a reasonable price, we may not be able to produce certain
of our products or we may not be able to produce certain of these products at a
marketable price, which could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations.
    
    We may be unable to adjust to rapid
changes in the healthcare industry, some of which could adversely affect our
business.
    
    The healthcare industry has undergone
significant changes in an effort to reduce costs. These changes
include:
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              development
      of large and sophisticated groups purchasing medical and surgical
      supplies;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              wider
      implementation of managed care;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              legislative
      healthcare reform;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              consolidation
      of pharmaceutical companies;
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              increased
      outsourcing of certain activities, including to low-cost offshore
      locations; and
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              •
            
            
              consolidation
      of distributors of pharmaceutical, medical and surgical
      supplies.
            
          
      
    
    
    We expect the healthcare industry to
continue to change significantly in the future. Some of these potential changes,
such as a reduction in governmental support of healthcare services or adverse
changes in legislation or regulations governing the delivery or pricing of
healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause healthcare-industry
participants to purchase fewer of our products and services or to reduce the
prices they are willing to pay for our products or services.
    
    We may incur unexpected costs from
increases in fuel and raw material prices, which could reduce our earnings and
cash flow.
    
    Our primary commodity exposures are for
fuel, petroleum-based resins, steel and serum. While we may seek to minimize the
impact of price increases through higher prices to customers and various
cost-saving measures, our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in
the event these measures are insufficient to cover our costs.
    
    Unforeseen problems with the
implementation and maintenance of our information systems at certain of our
sites could interfere with our operations. As a part of the effort to
upgrade our current information systems, we are implementing new enterprise
resource planning software and other software applications to manage certain of
our business operations. As we implement and add functionality, problems could
arise that we have not foreseen. Such problems could adversely impact our
ability to do the following in a timely manner: provide quotes, take customer
orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and
track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations and otherwise run our
business. In addition, if our new systems fail to provide accurate and increased
visibility into pricing and cost structures, it may be difficult to improve or
maximize our profit margins. As a result, our results of operations and cash
flows could be adversely affected.
    
    
      
        
          Financial Statement Index
        
        
          30
          
            
          
        
        
          Table of Contents
        
      
    
    
    Risk
Factors (continued)
    
    Our debt may adversely affect our cash
flow and may restrict our investment opportunities or limit our
activities.
    
    As of December 31, 2007, we had
approximately $2.20 billion in outstanding indebtedness. In addition, we had the
ability to incur an additional $955 million of indebtedness under our revolving
credit facility. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of
credit to meet future financing needs, which would have the effect of increasing
our total leverage.
    
    Our leverage could have negative
consequences, including increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and
industry conditions, limiting our ability to obtain additional financing and
limiting our ability to acquire new products and technologies through strategic
acquisitions.
    
    Our ability to satisfy our obligations
depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial,
competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate
sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations. If we are unable to service our
debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic
acquisitions, capital expenditures or research and development expenditures. We
may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at
all.
    
    Additionally, the agreements governing
our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain
affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other
limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make
investments, create liens, sell assets and enter into transactions with
affiliates. The covenants in our revolving credit facility include a
debt-to-EBITDA ratio. Specifically, the company has agreed that, so long as any
lender has any commitment under the facility, or any loan or other obligation is
outstanding under the facility, or any letter of credit is outstanding under the
facility, it will not permit (as the following terms are defined in the
facility) the Consolidated Leverage Ratio (the ratio of consolidated
Indebtedness to Consolidated EBITDA) as at the last day of any fiscal quarter to
be greater than 3.0 to 1.0.
    
    Our ability to comply with these
financial restrictions and covenants is dependent on our future performance,
which is subject to prevailing economic conditions and other factors, including
factors that are beyond our control such as foreign exchange rates and interest
rates. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may
result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could
permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay
that debt before its scheduled due date. Also, an acceleration of the debt under
one of our debt instruments would trigger an event
of default under other of our debt instruments.
    
    
      
          
            
              Item 1B