Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

 

You should carefully
consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this
report, including our consolidated financial statements and the notes
thereto.  

 

Catastrophe losses could materially
reduce our profitability and adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise
capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance. Our
property and casualty insurance operations expose us to claims arising out of
catastrophes. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural events, including
hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, severe winter weather and fires.
Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as a terrorist attack (including those
involving nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events) or a consequence
of war or political instability. The geographic distribution of our business
subjects us to catastrophe exposure from hurricanes in the Northeast, Florida,
Gulf Coast and Mid-Atlantic regions, as well as catastrophe exposure from
earthquakes in California and the New Madrid and Pacific Northwest regions and
other weather-related catastrophe exposure in the United Kingdom.  The incidence and severity of catastrophes
are inherently unpredictable. Over the last several years, changing climactic
conditions have added to the unpredictability and frequency of natural
disasters in certain parts of the world and created additional uncertainty as
to future trends and exposures.  It is
possible that both the frequency and severity of natural and man-made
catastrophic events will increase.  In
particular, we expect that the trend of increased severity and frequency of storms experienced
in 2005 and 2004 will continue into 2006.

 

The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total
amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity
of the event. States have from time to time passed legislation that has the
effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as
legislation prohibiting insurers from withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas.
In addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative
initiatives and court decisions which seek to expand insurance coverage for
catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies.  Also, our ability to increase pricing to the
extent necessary to offset rising costs of catastrophes, particularly in the
Personal segment, requires approval of regulatory authorities of certain
states.  

 

Catastrophe losses could materially and adversely affect our financial
results for any fiscal quarter or year and may materially reduce our
profitability or harm our financial condition, which in turn could adversely
affect our financial strength and claims-paying ratings and could impair our
ability to raise capital on acceptable terms or at all.  Also, particularly in light of the frequency
and severity of storms in the past two years, rating agencies may increase
their capital requirements, which may require us to raise capital to maintain
our ratings or adversely affect our ratings. In addition, catastrophic events could
cause us to exhaust our available reinsurance limits and could adversely impact the cost and availability of
reinsurance.  We
have limited terrorism coverage in our reinsurance program, and although the
Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 provides benefits in the event
of certain acts of terrorism, it may not be extended beyond 2007 or its
benefits may be reduced.  

 

37












 

Our business could be harmed because of our potential exposure to asbestos and
environmental claims
and related litigation. 

 

Asbestos Claims. We believe that the property and
casualty insurance industry has suffered from court decisions and other trends
that have attempted to expand insurance coverage for asbestos claims far beyond
the intent of insurers and policyholders. 
As a result, we continue to experience a significant number of asbestos
claims being tendered to us by our policyholders (which includes others seeking
coverage under a policy) including claims against our policyholders by
individuals who do not appear to be impaired by asbestos exposure.  Factors underlying these claim filings
include intensive advertising by lawyers seeking asbestos claimants, the focus
by plaintiffs on new and previously peripheral defendants and entities seeking
bankruptcy protection as a result of asbestos-related liabilities.  In addition to contributing to the overall
number of claims, bankruptcy proceedings may increase asbestos-related
losses by initially delaying the reporting of claims and later by significantly
accelerating and increasing loss payments by insurers, including us.  Bankruptcy proceedings are also causing
increased settlement demands against those policyholders who are not in
bankruptcy but that remain in the tort system. 
In addition, our asbestos-related loss and loss expense experience is
impacted by the exhaustion or unavailability due to insolvency of other
insurance sources potentially available to policyholders along with the
insolvency or bankruptcy of other defendants. 
We are currently involved in coverage litigation concerning a number of
policyholders who have filed for bankruptcy, including, among others, ACandS, Inc.,
who in some instances have asserted that all or a portion of their
asbestos-related claims are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage as
described generally in the next paragraph. Also see “Part I — Item 3 — Legal
Proceedings”. These trends are expected to continue in the near term.  As a result of the factors described above,
there is a high degree of uncertainty with respect to future exposure from
asbestos claims.  

 

In some
instances, policyholders continue to assert that their claims for
asbestos-related insurance are not subject to aggregate limits on coverage and
that each individual bodily injury claim should be treated as a separate
occurrence under the policy.  It is
difficult to predict whether these policyholders will be successful on both
issues or whether we will be successful in asserting additional defenses.  To the extent both issues are resolved in
policyholders’ favor and other additional Company defenses are not successful,
our coverage obligations under the policies at issue would be materially
increased and bounded only by the applicable per-occurrence limits and the
number of asbestos bodily injury claims against the policyholders.  Accordingly, it is difficult to predict the
ultimate cost of the claims for coverage not subject to aggregate limits.

 

Many coverage
disputes with policyholders are only resolved through settlement
agreements.  Because many policyholders
make exaggerated demands, it is difficult to predict the outcome of settlement
negotiations.  Settlements involving
bankrupt policyholders may include extensive releases which are favorable to us
but which could result in settlements for larger amounts than originally
anticipated. Also, courts may not approve proposed settlements,
which would result in additional litigation and potentially less beneficial outcomes
for us.  As in the past, we will continue
to pursue settlement opportunities.

 

In addition,
proceedings have been launched directly against insurers, including us,
challenging insurers’ conduct in respect of asbestos claims, and claims by
individuals seeking damages arising from alleged asbestos-related bodily
injuries.  There
may be additional filings of other direct actions
against insurers, including us, in the future.  It is difficult to predict the outcome of
these proceedings, including whether the plaintiffs will be able to sustain
these actions against insurers based on novel legal theories of liability.  

 

Environmental Claims. We continue to receive claims from
policyholders who allege that they are liable for injury or damage arising out of
their alleged disposition of toxic substances. Mostly, these claims are due to
various legislative as well as regulatory efforts aimed at environmental
remediation. For instance, the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), enacted in 1980 and later modified,
enables private parties as well as federal and state governments to take action
with respect to releases and threatened releases of hazardous substances. This
federal statute permits the recovery of response costs from some liable parties
and may require liable parties to undertake their own remedial action.
Liability under CERCLA may be joint and several with other responsible parties.


 

We have been,
and continue to be, involved in litigation involving insurance coverage issues
pertaining to environmental claims. We believe that some court decisions have
interpreted the insurance coverage to be broader than the original intent of
the insurers and policyholders. These decisions often pertain to insurance
policies that were issued by us prior to the mid-1970s. These decisions
continue to be inconsistent and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
Environmental claims when submitted rarely indicate the monetary amount being
sought by the claimant from the policyholder, and we do not keep track of the
monetary amount being sought in those few claims which indicate a monetary
amount.  

 

38












 

Asbestos and Environmental Claims. It is
difficult to determine the ultimate exposure for asbestos and environmental
claims  and
related litigation.  As
a result, these  reserves are subject to revision as new information becomes
available and as claims develop.  The continuing
uncertainties include, without limitation, the risks and lack of predictability
inherent in complex litigation, any impact from
the bankruptcy protection sought by various asbestos producers and other
asbestos defendants, a further increase or decrease in asbestos and  environmental claims which cannot now be anticipated, the
role of any umbrella or excess policies we have issued, the resolution or adjudication of some disputes
pertaining to the amount of available coverage for asbestos and environmental claims in a manner inconsistent with
our previous
assessment of these claims, the number and outcome of direct actions against
us
and future developments pertaining to our ability to
recover reinsurance for asbestos and
environmental claims. In addition, our asbestos-related loss and loss expense
experience has been impacted by the exhaustion
or unavailability due to insolvency of other insurance sources potentially
available to policyholders along with the insolvency or bankruptcy of other
defendants. It is also not possible to predict changes in the legal
and legislative environment and their impact on the future development of asbestos and  environmental claims.  This
development will be affected by future court decisions and interpretations, as
well as changes in applicable legislation, including proposed legislation related
to asbestos reform. It is also difficult to predict the ultimate
outcome of large coverage disputes until settlement negotiations near
completion and significant legal questions are resolved or, failing settlement,
until the dispute is adjudicated. This is particularly the
case with policyholders in bankruptcy where negotiations often involve a large
number of claimants and other parties and require court approval to be
effective. See the “Asbestos Claims and Litigation” and “Environmental Claims
and Litigation” sections of “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.” Also see “Part I — Item 3,
Legal Proceedings.” 

 

Because of the uncertainties set forth above,
additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current reserves for asbestos and environmental claims.  In addition, our estimate of claims and claim
adjustment expenses may change.  These
additional liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot
now be reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that
could be material to our operating results and financial condition in future
periods.

 

Reinsurance may not protect us against losses. We
use reinsurance to help manage our exposure to property and casualty risks. The
availability and cost of reinsurance are subject to prevailing market
conditions, both in terms of price and available capacity, which can affect our
business volume and profitability. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to
the extent of the ceded reinsurance, we remain liable as the direct insurer on
all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not
eliminate our obligation to pay claims. Accordingly, we are subject to credit
risk with respect to our ability to recover amounts due from reinsurers. In
addition, some of our reinsurance claims may be disputed by the reinsurers, and
we may ultimately receive partial or no payment. This is a particular risk in
the case of claims that relate to insurance policies written many years ago,
including those relating to asbestos and environmental claims. Reinsurance may
not protect us against losses and may not be available to us in the future at
commercially reasonable rates or at all.

 

We are exposed to, and may face adverse
developments involving, mass tort claims such as those relating to exposure to
potentially harmful products or substances. 
In
addition to asbestos and environmental pollution, we face exposure to other
types of mass tort claims, including claims related to exposure to potentially
harmful products or substances, including lead paint, silica and welding rod
fumes.  Establishing claim and claim
adjustment expense reserves for mass tort claims is subject to uncertainties
because of many factors, including expanded theories of liability, disputes
concerning medical causation with respect to certain diseases, geographical
concentration of the lawsuits asserting the claims and the large rise in the
total number of claims without underlying epidemiological developments
suggesting an increase in disease rates. Moreover, evolving judicial
interpretations regarding the application of various tort theories and
defenses, including application of various theories of joint and several
liabilities, as well as the application of insurance coverage to these claims,
impede our ability to estimate our ultimate liability for such claims.  

 

Because of
the uncertainties set forth above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts
in excess of the current related reserves.  In addition, our estimate of
claims and claim adjustment expenses may change.  These additional
liabilities or increases in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be
reasonably estimated and could result in income statement charges that could be
material to our operating results in future periods.

 

39












 

If actual claims exceed
our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated level of loss reserves are
necessary, our financial results could be significantly and adversely affected. 
Claim and claim adjustment expense reserves (loss reserves) represent
management’s estimate of ultimate unpaid costs of losses and loss adjustment
expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred
but not yet reported. Loss reserves do not represent an exact calculation of
liability, but instead represent management estimates, generally utilizing
actuarial expertise and projection techniques, at a given accounting date.
These loss reserve estimates are expectations of what the ultimate settlement
and administration of claims will cost upon final resolution in the future,
based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known, review of
historical settlement patterns, estimates of trends in claims severity and
frequency, expected interpretations of legal theories of liability and other
factors. In establishing reserves, we also take into account estimated
recoveries from reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. 

 

The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high
degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables can
be affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims
handling procedures, economic inflation, legal trends and legislative changes,
among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims
and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate.
Loss reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line
due to differences in claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential
severity of individual claims, the determination of occurrence date for a claim
and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the policyholder event
and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied
throughout the process. We continually refine our loss reserve estimates in a
regular ongoing process as historical loss experience develops and additional
claims are reported and settled. We rigorously attempt to consider all
significant facts and circumstances known at the time loss reserves are
established. Due to the inherent uncertainty underlying loss reserve estimates
including but not limited to the future settlement environment, final
resolution of the estimated liability will be different from that anticipated
at the reporting date. Therefore, actual paid losses in the future may yield a
materially different amount than currently reserved—favorable or unfavorable. 

 

There are also risks which impact the
estimation of ultimate costs for catastrophes. 
For example, the estimation of reserves related to hurricanes can be
affected by the inability by us and our insureds to access portions of the
impacted areas, the complexity of factors contributing to the losses, the legal
and regulatory uncertainties and the nature of the information available to
establish the reserves.  Complex factors
include, but are not limited to: determining whether damage was caused by
flooding versus wind; evaluating general liability and pollution exposures;
estimating additional living expenses; the impact
of demand surge; infrastructure disruption; fraud; the
effect of mold damage and business
interruption costs; and reinsurance collectibility.  The timing of a catastrophe’s occurrence,
such as at or near the end of a reporting period, can also affect the
information available to us in estimating reserves for that reporting
period.  The estimates related to
catastrophes are adjusted as actual claims emerge.  

 

Because of the uncertainties set forth
above, additional liabilities may arise for amounts in excess of the current
related reserves.  In addition, our estimate of claims and claim
adjustment expenses may change.  These additional liabilities or increases
in estimates, or a range of either, cannot now be reasonably estimated and
could result in income statement charges that could be material to our
operating results in future periods.

 

A portion of our loss reserves are for asbestos and
environmental claims and related litigation which aggregated $4.79 billion at
December 31, 2005. While the ongoing study of asbestos and environmental claims
and associated liabilities considers the inconsistencies of court decisions as
to coverage, plaintiffs’ expanded theories of liability and the risks inherent
in complex litigation and other
uncertainties, in the opinion of our management, it is possible that the
outcome of the continued uncertainties regarding these claims could result in
liability in future periods that differs from current reserves by an amount
that could be material to our operating results and financial condition in
future periods. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation” and “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Environmental Claims and Litigation.” 

 

For a
discussion of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves by product line,
including examples of common factors that can affect required reserves, see “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates—Claims and Claim Adjustment Expense
Reserves.”

 

40












 

The effects of emerging
claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal,
judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected and
unintended issues related to claim and coverage may emerge. These issues may
adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our
underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. Examples of
emerging claims and coverage issues include: 

 

•      increases in the number and size of claims
related to expenses for testing and remediation of mold conditions; 

 

•      increases in the
number and size of claims relating to construction defects, which often present
complex coverage and damage valuation questions;

 

•     adverse changes in loss cost trends,
including inflationary pressures in medical costs and auto and home repair
costs;

 

•      judicial
expansion of policy coverage and the impact of new theories of liability; and

 

•      a growing trend
of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers, including us, in
purported class action litigation relating to claim-handling and other
practices.

 

The effects
of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely
hard to predict and could harm our business and adversely affect our results of
operations.

 

The insurance industry is the subject of a number of investigations by
state and federal authorities in the United States.  We cannot predict the outcome of these
investigations or the impact on our business or financial results. As part of ongoing, industry-wide
investigations, we and our affiliates have received subpoenas and written
requests for information from government agencies and authorities, including
from the Attorneys General of numerous states, various states’ insurance and
business regulators and the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The areas of inquiry addressed to us include
our relationship with brokers and agents, our involvement with “non-traditional”
insurance and reinsurance products, branding requirements for salvage
automobiles and the reporting of workers’ compensation premiums.  We and our affiliates may receive additional
subpoenas and requests for information with respect to these or other areas
from government agencies or authorities. 
We are cooperating with these subpoenas and requests for
information.  For further information,
see “Part I — Item 3 — Legal Proceedings”.

 

It would be
premature to reach any conclusions as to the likely outcome of these matters or
the impact on our business or financial results.  Potential
outcomes could include enforcement proceedings or settlements resulting in
fines, penalties and/or changes in business practices that could adversely
affect our results of operations. In addition, these investigations may result in
changes in laws and regulations affecting the industry in general which could,
in turn, also adversely affect our results of operations.

 

Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation may reduce
our profitability and limit our growth. We are extensively regulated and supervised in the
jurisdictions in which we conduct business, including
licensing and supervision by government regulatory agencies in such
jurisdictions.  This regulation is
generally designed to protect the interests of policyholders, and not
necessarily the interests of insurers, their shareholders and other
investors.  This regulation also relates
to authorization for lines of business, capital and surplus requirements,
investment limitations, underwriting limitations, transactions with affiliates,
dividend limitations, changes in control, premium rates and a variety of other
financial and nonfinancial components of an insurer’s business. 

 

In recent years, the state insurance
regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state
legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state
authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies.
Further, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state
insurance regulators continually reexamine existing laws and regulations, specifically
focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of
existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations. In addition,
Congress and some federal agencies from time to time investigate the current
condition of insurance regulation in the United States to determine whether to
impose federal regulation or to allow an optional federal incorporation,
similar to banks. We cannot predict with certainty the effect any proposed or
future legislation or NAIC initiatives may have on the conduct of our business.
Insurance laws or regulations that are adopted or amended may be more
restrictive than current requirements or may result in higher costs.

 

41












 

Although the United States federal
government does not directly regulate the insurance business, changes in
federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including
changes in financial services regulation and federal taxation, can
significantly harm the insurance industry, including us. 

 

Assessments and other surcharges for guaranty funds, second-injury funds,
catastrophe funds and other mandatory pooling arrangements may reduce our
profitability.
Virtually all states require insurers licensed to do business in their state to
bear a portion of the loss suffered by some insureds as the result of impaired
or insolvent insurance companies. These assessments have leveled off in the
recent year and in certain states, have begun to decrease.  These assessments may, however, increase in
the future if additional insolvencies occur. 
Many states also have laws that established second-injury funds to
provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition
or injury which are funded by either assessments based on paid losses or
premium surcharge mechanisms. In addition, as a condition to the ability to
conduct business in various states, our insurance subsidiaries must participate
in mandatory property and casualty shared market mechanisms or pooling arrangements,
which provide various types of insurance coverage to individuals or other
entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage from private
insurers. The effect of these assessments and mandatory shared-market
mechanisms or changes in them could reduce our profitability in any given
period or limit our ability to grow our business. 

 

A downgrade in our claims-paying and financial strength ratings could
significantly reduce our business volumes, adversely impact our ability to
access the capital markets and increase our borrowing costs. Claims-paying and financial strength
ratings have become increasingly important to an insurer’s competitive
position.  Rating agencies review their
ratings periodically, and our current ratings may not be maintained in the
future.  A downgrade in one or more of
our ratings could negatively impact our business volumes, because demand for
certain of our  products in certain markets may be
reduced or our ratings could fall below minimum levels required to maintain
existing business.  Additionally, we may
find it more difficult to access the capital markets and higher borrowing costs
may be incurred.  If our capital position
were to deteriorate or one or more rating agencies were to substantially
increase their capital requirements, we may need to raise equity capital in the
future in order to maintain our ratings or limit the extent of a downgrade. For
example, the frequency or severity of weather-related catastrophes in the last
two years may lead rating agencies to substantially  increase their
capital requirements. The ratings are not in any way a
measure of protection offered to investors in our securities and should not be
relied upon with respect to making an investment in our securities.  For further discussion about our ratings,
see, “Item 1 Business – Ratings”.

 

Our investment portfolio may suffer reduced returns or losses which could
reduce our profitability. Investment returns are an important part of our overall
profitability. Accordingly, fluctuations in the fixed
income or equity markets could impair our profitability, financial condition or
cash flows. 

 

Fluctuations
in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed income
and short-term investments, which comprised approximately 93% of the market
value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2005.  In addition, defaults by third parties,
primarily from investments in liquid corporate and municipal bonds, who fail to
pay or perform on their obligations could reduce our net investment income and
net realized investment gains or result in investment losses. 

 

We invest a
portion of our assets in equity investments, which are subject to greater
volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock
market conditions and many other factors beyond our control can adversely
affect the value of our equity investments and our ability to control the
timing of the realization of net investment income. As a result of these
factors, we may not realize an adequate return on our investments, may incur
losses on sales of our investments and may be required to write down the value
of our investments, which would reduce our profitability.

 

The intense competition that we face could harm our ability to maintain
or increase our profitability and premium volume. The property and casualty insurance
industry is highly competitive and we believe that it will remain highly
competitive in the foreseeable future. We compete with both domestic and
foreign insurers, some of which have greater financial resources than we do. In
addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of
business now offer products for alternative forms of risk protection, including
large deductible programs and various forms of self-insurance that utilize
captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. Continued growth in
alternative forms of risk protection could reduce our premium volume. Following
the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001 and again following the hurricane
activity in 2004 and 2005, a number of new insurers and reinsurers were formed
to compete in the industry, and a number of existing market participants have
raised new capital which may enhance their ability to compete.  Financial institutions are now able to offer
services similar to us as a result of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which
repealed U.S. laws that separated commercial banking, investment banking
and insurance activities.

 

42












 

Our
competitive position is based on many factors, including: 

 

•      our
perceived overall financial strength,

 

•      ratings assigned by independent rating
agencies,

 

•      geographic scope of business, 

 

•      agent, broker and
client relationships,

 

•      premiums
charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered
(including the ability to design customized programs),

 

•      speed of claims payment,

 

•      reputation, experience and qualifications
of employees,

 

•      local presence and

 

•      our ability to keep pace relative to
competitors with changes in technology and information systems.

 

We may have
difficulty in continuing to compete successfully on any of these bases in the
future. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate
rates, our results of operations will be adversely affected.  See Item 1 – Business – Competition.  

 

The inability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in
sufficient amounts would harm our ability to meet our obligations and to pay
future dividends.
We are a holding company and rely in part on dividends from our insurance
subsidiaries to meet our obligations for payment of interest and principal on
outstanding debt obligations and to pay dividends to shareholders and corporate
expenses. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in
the future will depend on their statutory surplus, earnings and regulatory
restrictions.  

 

We and our
insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by some states as an insurance
holding company system. This regulation generally provides that transactions
between companies within the holding company system must be fair and equitable.
Transfers of assets among affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from
insurance subsidiaries and certain material transactions between companies
within the system may require prior notice to, or prior approval by, state
regulatory authorities. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to various
regulatory restrictions that limit the maximum amount of dividends available to
be paid to their parent without prior approval of insurance regulatory
authorities.  The ability of our
insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us also is restricted by regulations
that set standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the nature of
and limitation on investments, the nature of and limitations on dividends to
policyholders and shareholders, the nature and extent of required participation
in insurance guaranty funds and the involuntary assumption of hard-to-place or
high-risk insurance business, primarily in workers’ compensation insurance
lines.  The inability of our insurance
subsidiaries to pay dividends to us in an amount sufficient to meet our debt
service obligations and other cash requirements could harm our ability to meet
our obligations and to pay future dividends.

 

Loss or significant restriction of the use of credit scoring in the
pricing and underwriting of personal lines products could reduce our future
profitability. In
Personal Lines, we use credit scoring as a factor in pricing decisions where
allowed by state law. Some consumer groups and regulators have questioned
whether the use of credit scoring unfairly discriminates against people with
low incomes, minority groups and the elderly and are calling for the
prohibition or restriction on the use of credit scoring in underwriting and
pricing. Laws or regulations that significantly curtail the use of credit
scoring, if enacted in a large number of states, could reduce
our future profitability.

 

Disruptions to our relationships with our distributors,
independent agents and brokers could adversely affect us.  We market our insurance products primarily
through independent agents and brokers. 
An important part of our business is written through fewer than a dozen
such intermediaries.  Loss of all or a
substantial portion of the business provided through such agents and brokers
could have an adverse effect on our future business volume and profitability.

 

43












 

If we experience
difficulties with outsourcing relationships, our ability to conduct our
business might be negatively impacted.  We outsource certain technology functions
to third parties and may do so increasingly in the future. If we do not
effectively develop and implement our outsourcing strategy, third party
providers do not perform as anticipated or we experience technological or other
problems with a transition, we may not realize productivity improvements or
cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs
and a loss of business.  In addition, our ability to receive services from third
party providers outside of the United States might be impacted by cultural
differences, political instability, unanticipated regulatory requirements or
policies inside or outside of the United States.  As a result, our ability to conduct our
business might be negatively impacted.

 

Item 1B