Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and are based on our current expectations and projections about future events.  We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.







  



ii







Table of Contents



PART I

Item 1.   Business




Overview




Tractor Supply Company is the largest operator of retail farm and ranch stores in the United States and is focused on supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses.  We operate retail stores under the names Tractor Supply Company and Del’s Farm Supply and operate a website under the name TractorSupply.com.  Our stores are located in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural communities, and they offer the following comprehensive selection of merchandise:








·  


Equine, pet and small animal products, including items necessary for their health, care, growth and containment;








·  


Hardware, truck, towing and tool products;








·  


Seasonal products, including lawn and garden items, power equipment, gifts and toys;








·  


Maintenance products for agricultural and rural use; and








·  


Work/recreational clothing and footwear.







Our Tractor Supply stores typically range in size from 15,500 to 18,500 square feet of inside selling space and additional outside selling space.  We use a standard 15,500 square foot prototype for most new purpose-built locations.  For new stores located in existing buildings, one of several layout formats is utilized.




Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Del’s Farm Supply, LLC (“Del’s”), operated 26 stores as of December 25, 2010 in Washington, Oregon, Idaho and Hawaii.  Del’s stores currently range in size from approximately 2,000 to 6,000 square feet of inside selling space plus additional outside and covered/sheltered selling space.




Tractor Supply Company has one reportable industry segment – farm and ranch retail sales, both at our retail locations and online.




At December 25, 2010, we operated 1,001 retail farm and ranch stores in 44 states.




Seasonality and Weather




Our business is highly seasonal.  Historically, our sales and profits have been the highest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters due to the sale of seasonal products.  Unseasonable weather, excessive precipitation, drought, and early or late frosts may also affect our sales. We believe, however, that the impact of extreme weather conditions is somewhat mitigated by the geographic dispersion of our stores.




We experience our highest inventory and accounts payable balances during the first fiscal quarter for purchases of seasonal products in anticipation of the spring selling season and again during the third fiscal quarter in anticipation of the winter selling season.




Business Strategy




We believe our sales and earnings growth is a result of executing our business strategy, which includes the following key components:








  


Market Niche








  


We have identified a specialized market niche:  supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle (which we refer to as the “Out Here” lifestyle), as well as tradesmen and small businesses.  By focusing our product mix on these core customers, we believe we are differentiated from general merchandise, home center and other specialty retailers.







Customer Service

We are committed to providing our customers a high level of in-store service through our motivated, well-trained store team members. We believe the ability of our store team members to provide friendly, responsive and seasoned advice helps to promote strong customer loyalty and repeat shopping. As such, we seek to provide our store team members with decision-making authority, product knowledge and training to enable them to meet our customers’ needs.




We endeavor to staff our stores with courteous, highly motivated team members and devote considerable resources to training store team members, often in cooperation with our vendors. Our training programs include (i) a full management training program which covers all aspects of our operations, (ii) product knowledge modules produced in conjunction with key vendors, (iii) frequent management skills training classes, (iv) semi-annual store manager meetings with vendor product presentations, (v) vendor sponsored in-store training programs and (vi) ongoing product information updates from our management headquarters, the Store Support Center.  We seek to hire and train store team members with farming and ranching backgrounds, with particular emphasis on general maintenance, equine and welding.




Our online shopping site is TractorSupply.com.  The availability of certain of our products online provides our customers the ability to purchase products and have them shipped to one of our retail stores, their homes or offices.  We believe this capability further enhances customer service and extends our market to areas where our retail stores are not currently located.




We offer proprietary, private label credit cards for individuals and business customers.  In addition, we accept cash, checks, debit cards, Visa, MasterCard, American Express and Discover credit cards and gift cards.




Store Environment

Our stores are designed and managed to make shopping an enjoyable experience and to maximize sales and operating efficiencies.  Stores utilize several layouts, designed to provide an open environment, optimal product placement and visual display locations. In addition, these layouts allow for departmental space to be easily reallocated and visual displays to be easily changed for seasonal products and promotions. Display and product placement information is sent to stores weekly to ensure quality and uniformity among the stores.  Informative signs are located throughout each store to assist customers with purchasing decisions and merchandise location.  These signs provide customers with a comparison of product qualities, clear pricing and useful information regarding product benefits and suggestions for 
appropriate accessories. The general uniformity of our store layouts and visual displays afford our customers a feeling of familiarity and enhances the shopping experience. To further enhance the shopping experience, all of our store team members wear highly visible red vests, aprons or smocks and nametags, and our customer service and checkout counters are conveniently located.



  



1







Table of Contents



 

Merchandising

We offer a differentiated assortment of products for our customers.  Our broad product assortment is tailored to meet the regional and geographic needs of our markets, as well as the physical store size.  Our full line of product offerings is supported by a strong in-stock inventory position with an average of 15,500 to 19,000 unique products per store.  No one product accounted for more than 10% of our sales during 2010.




Our stores carry a wide selection of high quality, nationally recognized, name brand merchandise. We also market a growing list of products under our “private-label programs,” i.e. products manufactured for us by a number of vendors. The trademarks in the private label brand names are owned by us. Our private label brands include:




· Producers Pride and Dumor (livestock feed)

· Retriever, Paws ‘n Claws, and 4health (pet foods)

· Huskee (outdoor power equipment)

· C.E. Schmidt (apparel and footwear)

· Countyline (livestock, farm and ranch equipment)

· Royal Wing (bird feeding supplies)

· Traveller (truck/automotive products)

· Masterhand and JobSmart (tools and tool chests)

· Groundwork (lawn and garden supplies)

· Bit & Bridle (apparel)

· Red Shed (gifts and collectibles)




We believe that the availability of high quality private label products at compelling prices provides superior value for our customers, a strategic advantage for us, and positions us as a destination store.




The following chart indicates the average percentages of sales represented by each of our major product categories during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008.







  
 

Percent of Sales

 


Product Category

 

2010

 
 

2009 (a)

 
 

2008 (a)

 


Livestock and Pet

 
 
39
%
 
 
39
%
 
 
37
%


Hardware, Tools and Truck

 
 
23
 
 
 
23
 
 
 
24
 


Seasonal, Gift and Toy Products

 
 
22
 
 
 
22
 
 
 
23
 


Clothing and Footwear

 
 
10
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
9
 


Agriculture

 
 
6
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
7
 

  
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%
 
 
100
%


(a)Reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

 



 

Purchasing

We offer a differentiated assortment of products that are sourced through domestic and international vendors for those seeking to enjoy the “Out Here” lifestyle.  Our business is not dependent upon any one vendor or particular group of vendors.  We purchase our products from a core group of approximately 700 vendors, with no one vendor representing more than 10% of our purchases during fiscal 2010.  Approximately 250 vendors accounted for approximately 90% of our purchases during fiscal 2010.  We have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for our products, and we believe that adequate sources of supply exist at substantially similar costs for nearly all of our produc
ts.  We have no material long-term contractual commitments with any of our vendors.




We maintain a dedicated inventory management team to focus exclusively on all forecasting and replenishment functions.  This centralized direction permits our buying teams to focus more strategic attention toward vendor line reviews, assortment planning and testing of new products and programs.  Through the combined efforts of these teams, we have improved our overall inventory productivity and in-stock position.




Over 98% of our purchase orders are transmitted through an electronic data interchange ("EDI") system, and approximately 95% of merchandise vendor invoices are transmitted through EDI. We are expanding the percentage of vendors who electronically transmit invoices and increasing the amount of sales history transmitted.




Distribution

We currently operate a distribution network for supplying our stores with merchandise, and in fiscal 2010 our stores received approximately 67% of our merchandise through this network.  Our six distribution centers are located in Indiana, Georgia, Maryland, Texas, Nebraska, and Washington, representing total distribution capacity of 2.9 million square feet.  In 2011 we have begun construction on our seventh distribution center, a new 834,000 square foot facility in Kentucky to be operational during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.




We manage our inbound and outbound transportation activity in-house through the use of a web-based transportation management system.  We utilize several common carriers for store deliveries.  We manage our transportation costs through carrier negotiations, the monitoring of transportation routes, and the scheduling of deliveries.




Marketing

We utilize an "everyday value prices" strategy to consistently offer our products at competitive prices complemented by promotions primarily implemented during peak selling seasons.  We regularly monitor prices at competing stores and adjust our prices as appropriate.




To generate store traffic and position ourselves as a destination store, we promote broad selections of merchandise with newspaper circulars, customer targeted direct mail and internet offerings.  Vendors frequently support these specific programs by offering temporary cost reductions, honoring coupons and funding gift card rebate programs.






  



2







Table of Contents



 

Due to the relatively small size of our stores, increased traffic in the store ensures increased exposure to our products. Our vendors are committed to helping us promote our brand and position ourselves as a destination store.  Our vendors provide assistance with product presentation and rack design, brochures, point-of-purchase materials for customers’ education and product education for our team members.  We also receive funding through contributions and incentives on purchases to promote new stores and earn rebates from vendors on product purchases based on volume. 


 

Competition

We operate in a competitive retail industry. The principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. We compete with general merchandise retailers, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers, as well as independently owned retail farm and ranch stores, numerous privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives.  Some of these competitors are units of national or regional chains and may have substantially greater resources and financial capacities than we do.  However, we believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from these entities by focusing on our specialized market niche for customers living the rural lifestyle.




Management and Team Members

As of December 25, 2010, we employed approximately 7,900 full-time and approximately 6,800 part-time team members. We also employ additional part-time team members during peak periods.  We are not party to any collective bargaining agreements.




Our store operations are organized into nine regions, including Del’s.  Each region is led by a regional manager and the region is further organized into districts, which are led by a district manager or area manager.  Our regional managers, district managers, area managers, store managers and other distribution and support personnel have contributed significantly to our performance.  We have internal advisory boards, one comprised of store managers and the other comprised of district managers.  These groups bring a grassroots perspective to operational initiatives and generate chain-wide endorsement of proposed “best-practice” solutions.




We are committed to a continuous improvement program called Tractor Value System (“TVS”).  TVS is a business management system that emphasizes, through team member engagement, a focus on continuous improvement.  Utilizing the TVS system, we improve processes by embracing change of current practices to reduce cost, shorten lead times, and drive innovation.  We have implemented numerous continuous improvement project teams (comprised of team members from all areas of our operations) to evaluate key operations and implement process changes that will improve efficiency, reduce costs and strengthen processes. Our management encourages the participation of all team members in decision-making, regularly solicits input and suggestions from our team members and incorporates suggestions into our improv
ement activities.




All of our team members participate in one of various incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon team and/or Company performance. We also provide our team members the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement savings plan (we contribute to the 401(k) savings plan solely through a cash match). Additionally, we share in the cost of health insurance provided to our team members, and team members receive a discount on merchandise purchased at our stores.




We encourage a “promote from within” environment when internal resources permit.  We also provide internal leadership development programs designed to mentor our high potential team members for continued progress and believe we have satisfactory relationships with our team members. Our district managers, area managers, and store managers have an average length of service of approximately five years.  Management believes internal promotions, coupled with the hiring of individuals with previous retail experience, will provide the management structure necessary to support our planned store growth.




Management Information and Control Systems

We have invested considerable resources in our management information and control systems to ensure superior customer service, manage the purchase and distribution of our merchandise and improve our operating efficiencies. Our management information and control systems include a point-of-sale system, a supply chain management and replenishment system, a radio frequency and voice picking system in the distribution centers, a vendor purchase order control system and a merchandise presentation system. These systems are integrated through an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system.  This ERP system tracks merchandise from initial order through ultimate sale and interfaces with our financial systems.




We continue to evaluate and improve the functionality of our systems to maximize their effectiveness. Such efforts include ongoing hardware and software evaluations and upgrades to support optimal software configurations and application performance.  We plan to upgrade our information technology and implement other efficiency-driving system enhancements (including the rollout of a new warehouse management system to distribution centers, implementation of price optimization software, point-of-sale system upgrades, and store and support center hardware refreshes) in 2011.  In addition, we will continue to strengthen the security of our information systems and support the areas of store and distribution center expansion.  These efforts are directed toward constantly improving the overall business processes 
and achieving the most efficient and effective use of the systems to manage our operations while ensuring a secure and reliable environment.


Growth Strategy




Our current and long-term growth strategy is to: (1) expand geographic market presence through opening new retail stores, (2) enhance financial performance through same-store sales increases, achieved through targeted merchandising programs with an “everyday value prices” philosophy and supported by strong customer service, (3) enhance product margin through assortment management, vendor management, global sourcing, and optimization of transportation  and distribution costs, (4) leverage operating costs, especially advertising, distribution and corporate overhead, (5) expand market opportunities via internet sales, and (6) expand through selective acquisition, as such opportunities arise, to enhance penetration into new and existing markets as a complementary strategy to organic growth.




We have experienced considerable sales growth over the past five years, with a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 12.0%.  We project an increase of 80 to 85 new stores in 2011, an increase of approximately 8%.  We opened 74 new stores in 2010 and 76 new stores in 2009, an increase of approximately 8% and 9%, respectively.




We operated 1,001 retail farm and ranch stores in 44 states as of December 25, 2010.  We have developed a proven method for selecting store sites and have identified over 800 potential additional markets for new Tractor Supply stores in the United States.


 



  



3







Table of Contents



 

Executive Officers of the Registrant




Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following list is included as an unnumbered item in Part I of this Report in lieu of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 28, 2011.

 

The following is a list of the names and ages of all executive officers of the registrant, indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held by each such person and each person’s principal occupations and employment during at least the past five years:








Name


Position


Age



James F. Wright


Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


61



Gregory A. Sandfort


President and Chief Merchandising Officer


55



Stanley L. Ruta


Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer


59



Anthony F. Crudele


Executive Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


54



Kimberly D. Vella


Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer


44




__________________




James F. Wright has served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February 2009, and prior to that time served as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer from November 2007 to February 2009, and as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from October 2004 to November 2007.  Mr. Wright previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from October 2000 to October 2004.  Mr. Wright has served as a director of the Company since 2002.




Gregory A. Sandfort has served as President and Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company since February 2009, and prior to that time served as Executive Vice President-Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company since November 2007.  Mr. Sandfort previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer at Michaels Stores, Inc. from March 2006 to August 2007 and as Vice President – General Merchandise Manager at Michaels Stores, Inc. from January 2004 to February 2006.  Mr. Sandfort served as Vice Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer of Kleinert’s Inc. (d/b/a Buster Brown) from 2002 to 2003 and as a Vice President, General Merchandise Manager for Sears, Roebuck and Co. from 1998 to 2002.




Stanley L. Ruta has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since February 2009, and prior to that time served as Executive Vice President-Store Operations since January 2007, after having served as Senior Vice President-Store Operations since June 2000 and as Vice President-Store Operations of the Company since 1994.




Anthony F. Crudele has served as Executive Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since January 2007, after having served as Senior Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company since November 2005.  Mr. Crudele previously served as Chief Financial Officer at Gibson Guitar from August 2003 to September 2005, as Chief Financial Officer of Xcelerate Corp. from 2000 to January 2003, and at The Sports Authority from 1989 through 1999 (serving as Chief Financial Officer from 1996 through 1999).




Kimberly D. Vella has served as Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer since July 2010, and prior to that time served as Senior Vice President-Human Resources of the Company since January 2007, after having served as Vice President-Human Resources of the Company since October 2001.




Additional Information




We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other reports as required. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC  20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site at sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically.




We make available free of charge through our Internet website, TractorSupply.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.




Our code of ethics, which is applicable to all of our team members, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller, along with our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors, is posted on our website.




Item 1A.   Risk Factors




Our business faces many risks. Those risks which we are currently aware and we deem to be material are described below.  If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may significantly suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K.




General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance.

Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced competitors. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability.  Additionally, changes in the mix of products sold to a mix with a lower overall gross margin or other increased cost of sales, along with slower 
inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory, could adversely affect our operations and operating results.




  



4







Table of Contents



 

Purchase price volatility, including inflationary and deflationary pressures, may adversely affect our financial performance.

Although we cannot determine the full effect of inflation and deflation on our operations, we believe our sales and results of operations are affected by both.  We are subject to market risk with respect to the pricing of certain products and services, which include, among other items, steel, grain, petroleum, corn, soybean and other commodities as well as transportation services.  Therefore, we may experience both inflationary and deflationary pressure on product cost, which may impact consumer demand and, as a result, sales and gross margin.  Our strategy is to reduce or mitigate the effects of purchase price volatility principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs, economies of scale from increased volume of purchases, adjusting retail prices and selectively buying from the most competiti
ve vendors without sacrificing quality.  Due to the competitive environment, such conditions have and may continue to adversely impact our financial performance.

 

There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to increase sales at our existing stores.

We experience fluctuations in our same-store sales, which are defined as stores which have completed twelve months of sales.  Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales at our existing stores.  Various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail sales environment, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions.  These factors may cause our same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations.  Past same-store sales are not necessarily an indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that our same-store sale
s will not decrease in the future.




Even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, our key business strategy of expanding our store base, we may experience managerial or operational problems, which may prevent any expected increase in profitability or negatively impact our cash flow. To manage our planned expansion, we must ensure the continuing adequacy of our existing systems, controls and procedures, including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls and information systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion, that the new stores will be effectively integrated into our existing operations or that such stores will be profitable.




Capital requirements for growth may not be available.

The construction and opening or acquisition of new stores and the development of new production and distribution facilities, along with the remodeling and renovation of existing stores, require significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through bank borrowings and internally generated cash flow.




Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect the ability of the banks to meet their commitments.  Our access to funds under the credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments.  Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time.  In addition, tighter lending practices have made it more challenging for our real estate developers to obtain financing under reasonable loan terms and conditions.  Unfavorable lending trends could impact the timing of our store openings and materially adversely affect our ability to open new purpose-built store
s in desirable locations.




Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business.  Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged.  Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures, and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases or other discretionary uses of cash.




Failure to open new stores in the manner currently contemplated could adversely affect our financial performance.

An integral part of our business strategy includes the expansion of our base of stores by opening new stores. This expansion strategy is dependent on our ability to find suitable locations, and we face competition from many retailers for such sites.  If we are unable to implement this strategy, our ability to increase our sales, profitability, and cash flow could be impaired significantly. To the extent that we are unable to open new stores in the manner we anticipate (due to, among other reasons, site approval or unforeseen delays in construction), our sales growth may be impeded.




New stores may negatively impact our results.

There can be no assurance that our new store openings will be successful or result in greater sales and profitability for the Company. New stores build their sales volumes and refine their merchandise selection over time and, as a result, generally have lower gross margins and higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales than our more mature stores. As we continue to open new stores, there may be a negative impact on our results from a lower contribution margin of these new stores until their sales levels ramp to chain average, if at all, as well as from the impact of related pre-opening costs.




Competition in our industry may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our operations.

We operate in a very competitive market. The principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service.  We believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from general merchandise retailers, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers by focusing on our specialized market niche. However, we do face competition from these entities, as well as competition from independently-owned retail farm and ranch stores, privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives.  Some of our competitors are units of national or regional chains that have substantially greater financial and other resources.




Weather conditions may have a significant impact on our financial results.

Historically, weather conditions have had a significant impact on our operating results. Weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices.  In past years, we have experienced extreme weather conditions, including snow and ice storms, flood and wind damage, hurricanes, tornadoes and droughts in some states. Weather conditions also directly affect the demand for seasonal products, particularly during the winter heating season. Accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.




There are certain risks associated with the seasonal nature of our business.

Our working capital needs and borrowings (if necessary) generally peak in our first and third fiscal quarters because lower sales are generated while expenses are incurred and inventory is increased in preparation for the spring and winter selling seasons.  If cash on hand and borrowings under existing credit facilities are insufficient to meet the seasonal needs or if cash flow generated during the spring and winter is insufficient to repay associated borrowings on a timely basis, this seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business.




 



  



5







Table of Contents



 

There is no assurance that our merchandising initiatives and marketing emphasis will provide expected results.

We believe our past performance has been based on, and future success will depend upon, in part, the ability to develop and execute merchandising initiatives with effective marketing.  There is no assurance that we will be successful, or that new initiatives will be executed in a timely manner to satisfy our customers’ needs or expectations.  Failure to execute and promote such initiatives in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow the business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demand and preferences for merchandise.  If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to
 take significant inventory markdowns.  Shortages of key items could also have a materially adverse impact on operating results.

 

We face risks associated with vendors from whom our products are sourced.

The products we sell are sourced from a variety of domestic and international vendors.  As a general rule, we have agreements with our vendors in which the vendors agree to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and to indemnify us against certain liabilities and costs.  Our ability to recover liabilities and costs under these vendor agreements is dependent upon the financial condition and integrity of the vendors.




We rely on foreign manufacturers for various products that we sell.  In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources.  We rely on long-term relationships with our suppliers but have no long-term contracts with such suppliers.  Our future success will depend in large measure upon our ability to maintain our existing supplier relationships or to develop new ones.  This reliance increases the risk of inadequate and untimely supplies of various products due to local political, economic, social, or environmental conditions, transportation delays, restrictive actions by foreign governments, or changes in United States laws and regulations affecting imports or domestic distribution.  Our vendors may be forced to reduce their production, shu
t down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which in some cases would make it difficult for us to serve the market’s needs and could have a material adverse effect on our business.




As an importer, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, economic disruptions, delays in shipments, transportation capacity and costs, currency exchange rates and changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which we purchase products.  If any such factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical or if additional United States quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of our products in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

 

Our failure to attract and retain qualified team members could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our ability to continue expanding operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified team members.  Our ability to meet labor needs while controlling wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation.  If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or if costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be adversely affected.




We may be subject to product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business.

Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business.  We maintain general liability insurance with a deductible for each occurrence and a $36,000,000 aggregate retention applicable to all general liability and workers compensation claims.  We also maintain umbrella limits above the primary general liability and product liability cover.  In many cases, we have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of the products and their products liability insurance.  Our ability to recover under such insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers and the specific allegations of a claim.  No assurance can be given that our insurance coverage or the manufacturers’ indemni
ty will be available or sufficient in any claims brought against us.




Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in federal, state or local regulations.

Changes in the federal, state or local minimum wage or living wage requirements or changes in other wage or workplace regulations could increase our costs of doing business. In addition, changes in federal, state or local regulations governing the sale of some of our products or tax regulations could increase our costs of doing business.




Because we are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees and other costs.

We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to environmental protection, consumer product safety, building, land use and zoning requirements, workplace regulations, wage and hour, privacy and information security and employment law matters. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, or if these laws or regulations are violated by importers, manufacturers or distributers, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal fees and costs. In addition, our capital expenditures could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant with any existing or future laws or regulations.




A privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the Company’s business.

The protection of customer, employee and company data is critical to the Company.  The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements.  In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information.  Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively preclude others from obtaining improper access to this information.  Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation.</f
ont>




In addition, states and the federal government are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft.  We collect personal information from consumers in the course of doing business.  These laws will likely increase the costs of doing business and, if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these new laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could harm our business.




Legal proceedings could materially impact our results.

From time to time, we are party to legal proceedings including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property, and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business.  Our results could be materially impacted by the decisions and expenses related to pending or future proceedings.






  



6







Table of Contents



 

If we experience difficulties with our management information systems, our financial performance may be adversely affected.

We depend on management information systems for many aspects of our business.  We could be materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand systems, particularly in light of the contemplated continued store growth.  Many of our information systems contain confidential customer, Company or employee data.  If we fail to adequately restrict access to this information, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

 

Effective tax rate changes and results of examinations by taxing authorities could materially impact our results.

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix being lower than historical results in states where we have lower statutory rates and higher than historical results in states where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other state and local taxing authorities. A portion of our sales are to tax-exempt customers. The business activities of our customers and the intended use of the unique products sold by us create a challenging and complex compliance environment.  These circumstances create risk that we could be challenged as to the propriety of our sales tax compliance. 
Our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities.




Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business and results.

The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to li
tigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock.




Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition.

Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, asset impairment, inventories, lease obligations, self-insurance, tax matters and litigation, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates or judgments.  Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition.

 

Item 1B