Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Forward-looking statements are based on
currently available information and are based on our current expectations and
projections about future events. We undertake no obligation to release publicly
any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or
circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of
unanticipated events.

                                       ii




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
- -------  --------

OVERVIEW

Tractor Supply Company is the largest operator of retail farm and ranch stores
in the United States and is focused on supplying the lifestyle needs of
recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle, as
well as tradesmen and small businesses. Our stores are located in towns outlying
major metropolitan markets and in rural communities and offer the following
comprehensive selection of merchandise:

        o       Equine, pet and animal products, including items necessary for
                their health, care, growth and containment
        o       Maintenance products for agricultural and rural use
        o       Hardware and tool products
        o       Seasonal products, including lawn and garden power equipment
        o       Truck, trailer and towing products, and
        o       Work/recreational clothing and footwear for the entire family.

Our Tractor Supply stores typically range in size from 15,500 square feet to
18,500 square feet of inside selling space and additional outside selling space.
We are developing stores using one of five standard prototypes as well as
existing building structures. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Del's Farm Supply,
LLC ("Del's"), operates 18 stores, primarily in the Pacific Northwest, that
offer a wide selection of products (primarily in the equine, pet and animal
category) tailored to those who enjoy the rural lifestyle. Del's stores
currently range in size from approximately 1,500 to 7,000 square feet of inside
selling space with additional outside selling space.

Tractor Supply Company has one reportable industry segment - the operation of
farm and ranch retail stores.

At December 30, 2006, we operated 676 retail farm and ranch stores in 37 states
and one Canadian province.

SEASONALITY AND WEATHER

Our business is highly seasonal. Historically, our sales and profits have been
the highest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters of each year due to the
sale of seasonal products. Unseasonable weather, excessive rain, drought, and
early or late frosts may also affect our sales. We believe, however, that the
impact of severe weather conditions is somewhat mitigated by the geographic
dispersion of our stores.

We experience our highest inventory and accounts payable levels during the first
fiscal quarter each year for purchases of seasonal products in anticipation of
the spring selling season and again during the third fiscal quarter in
anticipation of the winter selling season.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

We believe our sales and earnings growth is a result of focused execution of our
business strategy, which includes the following key components:

        MARKET NICHE
        We have identified a specialized market niche: supplying the lifestyle
        needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural
        lifestyle (which we refer to as the "Out Here" lifestyle), as well as
        tradesmen and small businesses. By focusing our product mix on these
        core customers, we believe we are differentiated from general
        merchandise, home center and other specialty retailers.

        CUSTOMER SERVICE
        We are committed to providing our customers a high level of in-store
        service through our motivated, well-trained store employees. We believe
        the ability of our store employees to provide friendly, responsive and
        seasoned advice helps to promote strong customer loyalty and repeat
        shopping.

                                       1




        As such, we seek to provide our store employees with decision-making
        authority, product knowledge and training to enable them to meet our
        customers' needs.

        We endeavor to staff our stores with courteous, highly motivated
        employees and devote considerable resources to training store employees,
        often in cooperation with our vendors. Our training programs include (i)
        a full management training program which covers all aspects of our
        operations, (ii) product knowledge modules produced in conjunction with
        key vendors, (iii) frequent management skills training classes, (iv)
        semi-annual store managers meetings with vendor product presentations,
        (v) vendor sponsored in-store training programs and (vi) ongoing product
        information updates from our management headquarters, the Store Support
        Center. We seek to hire and train store employees with farming and
        ranching backgrounds, with particular emphasis on general maintenance,
        equine and welding.

        We offer proprietary, private label credit cards for individual retail
        and business customers. In addition, we accept cash, checks, debit
        cards, Visa, MasterCard and Discover credit cards and gift cards.

        STORE ENVIRONMENT
        Our stores are designed and managed to make shopping an enjoyable
        experience and to maximize sales and operating efficiencies. Stores
        utilize several layouts, designed to provide an open environment,
        optimal product placement and visual display locations. In addition,
        these layouts allow for departmental space to be easily reallocated and
        visual displays to be easily changed for seasonal products and
        promotions. Display and product placement information is sent to stores
        monthly to ensure quality and uniformity among the stores. Informative
        signs are located throughout each store to assist customers with
        purchasing decisions and merchandise location by comparison of "good,
        better, best" qualities, clear pricing and useful information regarding
        product benefits and suggestions for appropriate accessories. The
        general uniformity of our store layouts and visual displays afford our
        customers a feeling of familiarity and enhances the shopping experience.
        To further enhance the shopping experience, all of our store employees
        wear highly visible red vests, aprons or smocks and nametags, and our
        customer service and checkout counters are conveniently located.

        MERCHANDISING
        We offer a differentiated assortment of products for our target
        customers. Our broad product assortment is tailored to meet the regional
        and geographic needs of our markets, as well as the physical store size.
        Our full line of product offerings is supported by a strong in-stock
        inventory position with an average of 13,500 to 15,000 unique products
        per store. No one product accounted for more than 10% of our sales
        during 2006.

        Our stores carry a wide selection of high quality, nationally
        recognized, name brand merchandise. We also market a growing list of
        products under our "private-label programs," i.e. products manufactured
        by a number of vendors at our direction and specifically for our sole
        benefit. The trademarks in the private label brand names are owned by us
        with the exception of a very limited number of brands over which we have
        sole control but have not yet opted to own. Our private label brands
        include:

        o       HUSKEE (outdoor power equipment)
        o       TRAVELLER (truck/automotive products)
        o       RETRIEVER and PAWS `N CLAWS (pet foods)
        o       DUMOR and PRODUCERS PRIDE (livestock feed)
        o       C.E. SCHMIDT (apparel and footwear)
        o       GROUNDWORKS (lawn and garden supplies)
        o       ROYAL WING (bird feeding supplies)
        o       MILEPOST (Equine Products)
        o       RED SHED (gifts and collectibles)
        o       MASTERHAND (tools and tool chests)

                                       2




        Additionally, we control brands which we market. These control brands
        include BIT & BRIDLE (clothing), MORGAN CREEK ("lifestyle clothing") and
        FARM HAND (air compressors). We believe that the availability of top
        quality private label products at great prices provides superior value
        for our customers, a strategic advantage for us, and positions us as a
        "destination" store.

        The following chart indicates the average percentages of sales
        represented by each of our major product categories during fiscal 2006,
        2005 and 2004.

                                                      Percent Of Sales
                                                   ----------------------
                Product Category                   2006     2005     2004
                ----------------                   ----     ----     ----
      Equine, pet and animal .................      33%      31%      32%
      Seasonal products ......................      23       24       23
      Hardware and tools .....................      16       18       18
      Truck/trailer/tow/lube .................      12       12       12
      Clothing and footwear ..................       9        9        8
      Maintenance products for agriculture and
        rural use ............................       7        6        7
                                                   ---      ---      ---
                                                   100%     100%     100%
                                                   ===      ===      ===

        PURCHASING AND DISTRIBUTION
        We offer a differentiated assortment of products for those seeking to
        enjoy the "Out Here" lifestyle. Our business is not dependent upon any
        one vendor or particular group of vendors. We purchase our products from
        a core group of approximately 1,000 vendors, with no one vendor
        representing more than 10% of our purchases during fiscal 2006.
        Approximately 170 vendors accounted for approximately 80% of our
        purchases during fiscal 2006. We have not experienced any significant
        difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for
        our products and we believe that adequate sources of supply exist at
        substantially similar costs for substantially all of our products. We
        have no material long-term contractual commitments with any of our
        vendors.

        We maintain a dedicated supply chain management team to focus
        exclusively on all replenishment and forecasting functions. This
        centralized direction permits our buying teams to focus more strategic
        attention toward vendor line reviews, assortment planning and testing of
        new products and programs. Through the combined efforts of these teams,
        we expect to improve overall inventory productivity and in-stock
        position.

        Over 97% of our purchase orders are transmitted through an electronic
        data interchange ("EDI") system, and approximately 88% of merchandise
        vendor invoices are transmitted through EDI. We are expanding the
        percentage of vendors who electronically transmit invoices and
        increasing the amount of sales history transmitted.

        We own and operate a 775,000 square foot distribution center in
        Pendleton, Indiana, a 362,000 square foot distribution center in Waco,
        Texas, a 482,000 square foot distribution center in Hagerstown,
        Maryland, and a 425,000 square foot facility in Waverly, Nebraska, and
        lease a 410,000 square foot distribution center in Braselton, Georgia
        and a 71,000 square foot Del's facility in Lakewood, Washington. We
        believe our overall distribution capacity will support our growth up to
        an estimated 950 stores. In fiscal 2006, we received approximately 82%
        of our merchandise through these distribution facilities, with the
        balance delivered directly to our stores by our vendors.

        We manage our inbound and outbound transportation activity in-house
        through the use of a web-based transportation management system. We
        outsource the management of our dedicated fleets to two third-party
        logistics providers and utilize several common carriers as required. The
        third-party logistics providers are responsible for providing drivers
        and tractors dedicated to transporting merchandise for us. We endeavor
        to control our transportation costs through the monitoring of
        transportation routes, scheduling of deliveries, backhauls and optimal
        utilization of the dedicated fleet of trucks and trailers.

                                       3




        MARKETING
        We utilize an "everyday low prices" strategy to consistently offer our
        products at competitive prices complimented by promotions to enhance
        peak selling seasons. We regularly monitor prices at competing stores
        and adjust our prices as we deem appropriate. We believe that by
        avoiding a "sale"-oriented marketing strategy, we are attracting
        customers on a regular basis rather than only in response to promotional
        sales.

        To generate store traffic and position ourselves as a destination store,
        we promote broad selections of merchandise, primarily advertised at our
        regular everyday low price, with printed color circulars. We also run
        periodic special events promoted through circulars and direct mail
        advertising. We enhance our print marketing programs through the
        expanded use of national cable and local network television. Due to the
        geographic dispersion of our stores, the use of national cable
        advertising is generally more cost-effective and additionally serves to
        promote our stores prior to entering a new market.

        Due to the relatively small size of our stores, increased traffic in the
        store ensures increased exposure to most of our products. Our vendors
        are committed to helping us promote our brand and position ourselves as
        a destination store. Our vendors provide assistance with product
        presentation and rack design, brochures, point-of-purchase materials for
        customers' education and product education for our employees. We also
        receive funding through contributions and incentives on purchases to
        promote new and relocated stores and earn rebates from many vendors on
        product purchases based on volume.

        COMPETITION
        We operate in a very competitive market. The principal competitive
        factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise,
        in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation and
        customer service. We compete with general merchandise, home center
        retailers and other specialty and discount retailers, as well as
        independently owned retail farm and ranch stores, numerous
        privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives. Some of
        these competitors are units of national or regional chains and have
        substantially greater resources and financial capacities than we do.
        However, we believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from
        these entities by focusing on our specialized market niche.

        MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES
        As of December 30, 2006, we employed approximately 5,500 full-time and
        approximately 4,300 part-time employees. We also employ additional
        part-time employees during peak periods. We are not party to any
        collective bargaining agreements.

        Our district managers, store managers and other distribution and support
        personnel have contributed significantly to our performance. We have an
        internal advisory board comprised of store managers. This group brings a
        grassroots perspective to operational initiatives and generates
        chain-wide endorsement of proposed "best-practice" solutions. We have
        implemented numerous best practice teams (comprised of employees from
        all areas of our operations) to evaluate our key operations and
        recommend process changes that will both improve efficiency and
        strengthen controls. Our management encourages the participation of all
        employees in decision-making, regularly solicits input and suggestions
        from our employees and responds to the suggestions.

        All of our employees participate in one of various incentive programs,
        which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based
        upon team and/or Company performance. We also provide our employees the
        opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan and a
        401(k) retirement plan (we contribute to the 401(k) plan solely through
        a cash match). Additionally, we share in the cost of health insurance
        provided to our employees, and employees receive a discount on
        merchandise purchased at our stores.

                                       4




        We encourage a "promote from within" environment when internal resources
        permit. We also provide internal leadership development programs
        designed to mentor our high potential employees for continued progress
        and believe we have satisfactory relationships with our employees. All
        of our executive officers have over 25 years of business experience. Our
        district managers and store managers have an average length of service
        of approximately five years. Management believes internal promotions,
        coupled with the hiring of individuals with previous retail experience,
        will provide the management structure necessary to support our planned
        store growth.

        MANAGEMENT INFORMATION AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
        We have invested considerable resources in our management information
        and control systems to ensure superior customer service, manage the
        purchase and distribution of our merchandise and improve our operating
        efficiencies. Our management information and control systems include a
        point-of-sale system, a supply chain management and replenishment
        system, a radio frequency picking system in the distribution centers, a
        vendor purchase order control system and a merchandise presentation
        system. These systems are integrated and track merchandise from initial
        order through ultimate sale. All data from these systems are integrated
        with our financial systems.

        We continue to evaluate and improve the functionality of our systems to
        maximize their effectiveness. Such efforts include an ongoing evaluation
        of the optimal software configuration (including system enhancements and
        upgrades) as well as the adequacy of the underlying hardware components.
        These efforts are directed toward constantly improving the overall
        business processes and achieving the most efficient and effective use of
        the systems to manage our operations.

GROWTH STRATEGY

Our current and long-term growth strategy is to (1) expand geographic market
presence through opening new retail stores, (2) enhance financial performance
through same-store sales increases, achieved through aggressive merchandising
programs with an "everyday low prices" philosophy and supported by strong
customer service, (3) enhance product margin through assortment management,
vendor management, sourcing and optimization of transportation and distribution
costs, (4) leverage operating costs, especially occupancy, advertising and
distribution, and (5) expand through selective acquisition, as such
opportunities arise, to enhance penetration into new and existing markets as a
complimentary strategy to organic growth.

We have experienced considerable sales growth over the last five years, with a
compounded annual growth rate of approximately 22.8%. We plan to continue our
growth strategy, which anticipates an annual increase in our unit count of
approximately 13%. This growth has expanded our market presence to 676 retail
farm and ranch stores in 37 states and one Canadian province. We believe this
unit count increase, along with strategic relocations of small, older stores to
full-size formats in areas of greater retail opportunity, will contribute
substantially to our future growth. Through store relocations, we are able to
keep much of our existing loyal customer base but expand our overall reach to
new customers, thereby growing the business. We have relocated 87 stores since
2001. The acquisition of Del's enabled us to establish an initial presence in
the Pacific Northwest, primarily in Washington, Hawaii and one store in British
Columbia. We believe we have developed a proven method for selecting store sites
and have identified over 750 potential additional markets for new Tractor Supply
stores (excluding Del's) in the United States. In addition, we continue to
identify opportunities to relocate existing stores.

We expect to open approximately 85 to 90 stores in fiscal 2007, along with
approximately 12 store relocations.

The average estimated cash required to open a new leased store in fiscal 2006
was approximately $800,000 to $1,400,000, the majority of which was for initial
acquisition of inventory and capital expenditures (principally leasehold
improvements, fixtures and equipment), and approximately $85,000 of which was
for pre-opening costs. The cash required to complete a store relocation averaged
approximately $500,000 in fiscal 2006. However, relocation costs can vary
depending on whether we are responsible for any renovation or remodeling costs.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including
annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and other reports as required. The public may read and

                                       5




copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference
Room at 100 F Street, N.E., NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet
site at WWW.SEC.GOV that contains the reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information filed electronically.

We make available free of charge through our Internet website,
WWW.MYTSCSTORE.COM, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form
10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon
as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
furnished to the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of
this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such
information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.

Our code of ethics, which is applicable to all of our employees, including our
Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller, along with our
Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our Audit, Compensation,
Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees of our Board of Directors is
posted on our website.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
- --------

Our business faces many risks. These risks include those described below and may
include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we
currently deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described in
the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results
of operations may suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could
decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other
information in this Form 10-K.

GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
Higher interest rates, fuel and other energy costs, higher labor and healthcare
costs, and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the
merchandise we offer. Additionally, changes in the mix of products sold to a mix
with a lower overall gross margin or other increased cost of sales, along with
slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory, could adversely
affect our financial performance. High levels of unemployment, inflation,
changes in tax and other laws and other adverse developments in the economy may
also adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise, adversely affect
gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise
adversely affect our operations and operating results.

INFLATIONARY PRESSURES, INCLUDING RISING ENERGY PRICES, MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
Although we cannot determine the full effect of inflation on our operations, we
believe our sales and results of operations have been affected by inflation. We
are subject to market risk with respect to the pricing of certain products and
services, which include, among other items, steel, grain, petroleum, corn,
soybean and other commodities as well as transportation services. Moreover, in
the last few years, energy prices have risen dramatically, which has resulted in
increased fuel costs for our business and utility costs for our stores. We have
been successful in reducing or mitigating the effects of inflation, principally
through selective buying from the most competitive vendors and by increasing
retail prices. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in
reducing or mitigating the effect of inflation in the future.

THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO CONTINUE TO INCREASE SALES AT OUR
EXISTING STORES.
We experience fluctuations in our same-store sales, which are defined as stores
which have completed twelve months of sales, excluding relocated stores. Our
success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales at our existing
stores. Various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail
sales environment, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products,
changes in our merchandise mix, competition, current economic conditions, the
timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of
marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors may cause our
same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from
expectations. Past same-store sales are not necessarily an indication of future
results, and there can be no assurance that our same-store sales will not
decrease in the future. Any failure to meet the same-store sales expectations of
investors and security analysts in one or more future periods could adversely
affect our results of operations and result in a reduction in the market price
of our common stock.

OUR FAILURE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE GROWTH COULD IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS.
Even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, our key business
strategy of expanding our store base, we may experience managerial or
operational problems, which may prevent any significant increase in
profitability or

                                       6




negatively impact our cash flow. To manage our planned expansion, we must ensure
the continuing adequacy of our existing systems, controls and procedures,
including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls
and information systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
achieve our planned expansion, that the new stores will be effectively
integrated into our existing operations or that such stores will be profitable.

FAILURE TO OPEN NEW STORES IN THE MANNER CURRENTLY CONTEMPLATED COULD ADVERSELY
AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
An integral part of our key business strategy includes the expansion of our base
of stores by opening new stores. If we are unable to implement this strategy,
our ability to increase our sales, profitability, and cash flow could be
impaired significantly. To the extent that we are unable to open new stores in
the manner we anticipate (due to unforeseen delays in construction or site
approval), our sales growth would be impaired. Any failure to meet the growth
expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods
could reduce the market price of our stock.

COMPETITION IN OUR INDUSTRY MAY HINDER OUR ABILITY TO EXECUTE OUR BUSINESS
STRATEGY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATIONS.
We operate in a very competitive market. The principal competitive factors
include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock
consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. We
believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from general merchandise,
home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers by focusing on
our specialized market niche. However, we do face competition from these
entities, as well as competition from independently-owned retail farm and ranch
stores, several privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives.
Some of our competitors are units of national or regional chains that have
substantially greater financial and other resources.

WEATHER CONDITIONS MAY HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS.
Historically, weather conditions have had a significant impact on our operating
results. Weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply
of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices. In recent years, we have
experienced unusually severe weather conditions, including ice storms, floods
and wind damage, hurricanes and a summer dearth of water and pasture in some
states. Weather conditions also directly affect the demand for petroleum
products, particularly during the winter heating season. Accordingly, the
weather can have a material effect on our financial condition and results of
operations.

THERE ARE CERTAIN RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SEASONAL NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS.
Our working capital needs and borrowings generally peak in our first fiscal
quarter because lower sales are generated while expenses are incurred in
preparation for the spring selling season. If cash on hand and borrowings under
existing credit facilities are ever insufficient to meet the seasonal needs or
if cash flow generated during the spring and summer is insufficient to repay
associated borrowings on a timely basis, this seasonality could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH VENDORS FROM WHOM OUR PRODUCTS ARE SOURCED.
The products we sell are sourced from a variety of domestic and international
vendors. Foreign sourcing of many of the products sold is an important factor in
our financial performance. All of our vendors must comply with applicable laws,
including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting
required vendor standards of conduct. Our ability to find qualified vendors that
meet our standards, and access products in a timely and efficient manner are
significant challenges, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the
United States. These and other issues affecting our vendors, including
merchandise quality and financial instability of suppliers, could adversely
affect our financial performance.

WE FACE RISKS RELATING TO OUR RELIANCE ON FOREIGN SUPPLIERS.
We rely on foreign manufacturers for various products that we sell. In addition,
many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign
sources. We rely on long-term relationships with our suppliers but have no
long-term contracts with such suppliers. Our future success will depend in large
measure upon our ability to maintain our existing supplier relationships or to
develop new ones. This reliance increases the risk of inadequate and untimely
supplies of various products due to local political, economic, social, or
environmental conditions, transportation delays, restrictive actions by foreign
governments, or changes in United States laws and regulations affecting imports
or domestic distribution. As an importer, our business is subject to the risks
generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental
regulations, economic disruptions, delays in shipments, transportation capacity
and costs, currency exchange rates and changes in political or economic
conditions in countries from which we purchase products. If any such factors
were to render the conduct of business in particular countries

                                       7




undesirable or impractical or if additional United States quotas, duties, taxes
or other charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of our
products in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could
be materially adversely affected.

OUR FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. Our ability to continue expanding operations depends on
our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified
employees. Our ability to meet labor needs generally while controlling wage and
related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the
availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force,
unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and
other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. If we are unable to
locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or if costs of labor or related
costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be adversely
affected.

WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY AND OTHER CLAIMS IN THE ORDINARY COURSE
OF BUSINESS. Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims
in the ordinary course of business. We maintain general liability insurance with
a $250,000 deductible for each occurrence and a $6,000,000 aggregate retention.
We also maintain umbrella limits above the primary general and products
liability cover. In many cases, we have indemnification rights against the
manufacturers of the products and their products liability insurance. Our
ability to recover under such insurance or indemnification arrangements is
subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers and the
specific allegations of a claim. We cannot assure that our insurance coverage or
the manufacturers' indemnity will be available or sufficient in any claims
brought against us.

IF WE EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTIES WITH OUR MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS, OUR
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. We depend on management
information systems for many aspects of our business. We could be materially
adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we
are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand systems, particularly in
light of the contemplated continued significant increases in the number of our
stores.

THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT OUR PRODUCT INNOVATIONS AND MARKETING SUCCESSES WILL
CONTINUE. We believe our past performance has been based on, and future success
will depend upon, in part, the ability to continue to improve existing product
offerings through product innovation and to market new products. There is no
assurance that we will be successful in the introduction and marketing of any
new products or product innovations, or that innovations to existing product
offerings will be introduced in a timely manner to satisfy our customers' needs
or expectations. Failure to introduce new products successfully and in a timely
manner could harm our ability to grow the business and could have a material
adverse effect on results of our operations and financial condition.
Additionally, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a
timely manner to changing customer demand and preferences for products and
supplies used in recreational farming and ranching. If we misjudge the market,
we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take
significant inventory markdowns. Shortages of key items could also have a
materially adverse impact on operating results.

ITEM 1B