.Risk FactorsOur business faces many risks. Those risks of which we are currently aware and deem to be material are described below.  If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may significantly suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K.General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance.Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. A prolonged or further weakening of economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as continued lower employment levels, uncertainty or changes in business conditions, higher interest rates, higher tax rates, higher fuel and energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to other competitors.  A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending, shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors or shifts in discretionary spending to less profitable products sold by us, could result in lower net sales, slower inventory turnover, greater markdowns on inventory, and a reduction in profitability due to lower margins.Purchase price volatility, including inflationary and deflationary pressures, may adversely affect our financial performance.Although we cannot determine the full effect of inflation and deflation on our operations, we believe our sales and results of operations are affected by both.  We are subject to market risk with respect to the pricing of certain products and services, which include, among other items, steel, grain, petroleum, corn, cotton and other commodities as well as transportation services.  Therefore, we may experience both inflationary and deflationary pressure on product cost, which may impact consumer demand and, as a result, sales and gross margin.  Our strategy is to reduce or mitigate the effects of purchase price volatility principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs, economies of scale from increased volume of purchases, adjusting retail prices and selectively buying from the most competitive vendors without sacrificing quality.  Should our strategy to mitigate purchase price volatility not be effective, our financial performance could be adversely impacted.We may be unable to increase sales at our existing stores.We experience fluctuations in our same-store sales, defined as sales in stores which have been opened for at least twelve months.  Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales at our existing stores.  Various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail sales environment, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our merchandise assortment, competition, current economic conditions, customer satisfaction with our products, the timing of promotional events, the release of new merchandise, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions.  These factors may cause our same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations.  Past same-store sales are not necessarily an indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that our same-store sales will not decrease in the future.7IndexCapital requirements for growth may not be available.The construction and opening or acquisition of new stores and distribution facilities, along with the remodeling and renovation of existing stores, require significant amounts of capital.  In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through internally generated cash flow and bank borrowings.  Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect the ability of the banks to meet their commitments.  Our access to funds under our Senior Credit Facility, which provides for borrowings of up to $250 million, is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments.  Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time.  In addition, tighter lending practices have made it more challenging for our real estate developers to obtain financing under acceptable loan terms and conditions.  Unfavorable lending trends could impact the timing of our store openings and materially adversely affect our ability to open new stores in desirable locations.Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business.  Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged.  Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases, cash dividends or other discretionary uses of cash.Failure to open and manage new stores in the number and manner currently contemplated could adversely affect our financial performance.An integral part of our business strategy includes the expansion of our store base through new store openings. This expansion strategy is dependent on our ability to find suitable locations, and we face competition from many retailers for such sites.  If we are unable to implement this strategy, our ability to increase our sales, profitability, and cash flow could be impaired significantly. To the extent that we are unable to open new stores in the manner we anticipate (due to, among other reasons, site approval or unforeseen delays in construction), our sales growth may be impeded.As we execute this expansion strategy, we may also experience managerial or operational challenges which may prevent any expected increase in sales, profitability or cash flow.  Our ability to manage our planned expansion depends on the adequacy of our existing information systems, the efficiency and expansion of our distribution systems, the adequacy of the hiring and training process for new personnel (especially store managers), the effectiveness of our controls and procedures, and the ability to identify customer demand in different geographic areas.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion, that the new stores will be effectively integrated into our existing operations or that such stores will be profitable.Although we have a rigorous real estate site selection and approval process, there can be no assurance that our new store openings will be successful or result in incremental sales and profitability for the Company. New stores build their sales volumes and refine their merchandise selection over time and, as a result, generally have lower gross margins and higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales than our more mature stores. As we continue to open new stores, there may be a negative impact on our results from a lower contribution margin of these new stores until their sales levels ramp to chain average, if at all, as well as from the impact of related pre-opening costs.We may pursue strategic acquisitions and the failure of an acquisition to produce the anticipated results or the inability to fully integrate the acquired companies could have an adverse impact on our business.We may, from time to time, acquire businesses we believe to be complementary to our business.  The success of an acquisition is based on our ability to make accurate assumptions regarding the valuation, operations, growth potential, integration and other factors relating to the respective business.  Acquisitions may result in difficulties in assimilating acquired companies and may result in the diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues and opportunities. We may not be able to successfully integrate operations that we acquire, including their personnel, financial systems, distribution, operations and general operating procedures. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions, we could experience increased costs associated with operating inefficiencies which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Also, while we employ several different methodologies to assess potential business opportunities, the new businesses may not meet or exceed our expectations and, therefore, affect our financial performance.  8IndexCompetition in our industry may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our operations.We operate in the highly competitive retail merchandise sector with numerous competitors.  These competitors include general merchandise retailers, home center retailers, other specialty retailers, independently owned farm and ranch stores, regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives.  We compete for customers, merchandise, real estate locations, and employees.  This competitive environment subjects us to various other risks, including the inability to continue our store and sales growth and to provide attractive merchandise to our customers at competitive prices that allow us to maintain our profitability.  Our failure to compete effectively in this environment could adversely impact our financial performance.Weather conditions may have a significant impact on our financial results.Weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices.  Weather conditions directly affect the demand for seasonal products in particular, especially during the winter heating season.  In past years, weather conditions, including unseasonably warm weather in winter months, and extreme weather conditions, including snow and ice storms, flood and wind damage, hurricanes, tornadoes, extreme rain and droughts have affected our sales and results of operations both positively and negatively.  Our strategy is to reduce or mitigate the impact of weather conditions through geographic dispersion of our stores and taking advantage of our ability to effectively manage inventory allocation.  Should such a strategy not be effective, the weather is likely to have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our merchandising initiatives and marketing emphasis may not provide expected results.We believe our past performance has been based on, and future success will depend upon, in part, the ability to develop and execute merchandising initiatives with effective marketing.  There is no assurance that we will be successful, or that new initiatives will be executed in a timely manner to satisfy our customers’ needs or expectations.  Failure to execute and promote such initiatives in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow the business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demand and preferences for merchandise.  If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns.  Shortages of key items could also have a materially adverse impact on operating results.We face risks associated with vendors from whom our products are sourced.The products we sell are sourced from a variety of domestic and international vendors.  We have agreements with our vendors in which the vendors agree to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and to indemnify us against certain liabilities and costs.  Our ability to recover liabilities and costs under these vendor agreements is dependent upon the financial condition and integrity of the vendors.We rely on long-term relationships with our suppliers but have no long-term contracts with such suppliers.  Our future success will depend in large measure upon our ability to maintain our existing supplier relationships or to develop new ones.  This reliance exposes us to the risk of inadequate and untimely supplies of various products due to political, economic, social, or environmental conditions, transportation delays, or changes in laws and regulations affecting distribution.  Our vendors may be forced to reduce their production, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which could make it difficult for us to serve the market’s needs and could have a material adverse effect on our business.We rely on foreign manufacturers for various products that we sell.  In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources.  As an importer, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business internationally, such as foreign governmental regulations, economic disruptions, delays in shipments, transportation capacity and costs, currency exchange rates and changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which we purchase products.  If any such factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical or if additional United States quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of our products in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Our failure to attract and retain qualified team members could adversely affect our financial performance.Our ability to continue expanding operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified team members.  Our ability to meet labor needs while controlling wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation.  If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or if costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be adversely affected.9IndexWe may be subject to product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business.Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business.  Product liability claims from customers and product recalls for merchandise alleged to be defective or harmful could lead to the disposal or write-off of merchandise inventories, the incurrence of fines or penalties and damage to our reputation.  We maintain general liability and workers compensation insurance with self-insured retention for each policy type and a deductible for each occurrence.  We also maintain umbrella limits above the primary general liability and product liability coverage.  In many cases, we have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of the products and their products liability insurance.  Our ability to recover costs and damages under such insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers and the specific allegations of a claim.  No assurance can be given that our insurance coverage or the manufacturers’ indemnity will be available or sufficient in any claims brought against us.Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in, increased enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state, local or foreign laws and regulations.We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and governmental regulations relating to environmental protection, personal injury, intellectual property, consumer product safety, building, land use and zoning requirements, workplace regulations, wage and hour, privacy and information security and employment law matters. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, or if these laws or regulations are violated by importers, manufacturers or distributers, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal fees and costs. In addition, our capital expenditures could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant with any existing or future laws or regulations.We are also subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the anti-bribery laws of other jurisdictions.  Failure to comply with the FCPA and similar laws could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our business, customers, employees and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, employees and vendors, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could adversely affect our operating results. We receive certain personal information about our customers, employees and vendors.  In addition, our online operations at TractorSupply.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments.  While we maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to such information, it is possible that unauthorized parties (through cyberattacks, which are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, or by other means) might compromise our security measures and obtain the personal information of customers, employees and vendors that we hold or other confidential Company data.  Such an occurrence could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, employees, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties.  Moreover, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations.In addition, states and the federal government are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft.  These laws will likely increase the costs of doing business and, if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these new laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could harm our business.10IndexA significant disruption to our distribution network or to the timely receipt of inventory could adversely impact sales or increase our transportation costs, which would decrease our profits. We rely on our distribution and transportation network to provide goods to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner through deliveries to our distribution centers from vendors and then from the distribution centers or direct ship vendors to our stores by various means of transportation, including shipments by sea, air, rail and truck.  Any disruption, unanticipated expense or operational failure related to this process could affect store operations negatively.  For example, unexpected delivery delays or increases in transportation costs (including increased fuel costs or a decrease in transportation capacity for overseas shipments) could significantly decrease our ability to provide adequate product for sale, resulting in lower sales and profitability.  In addition, labor shortages or work stoppages in the transportation industry or long-term disruptions to the national and international transportation infrastructure that lead to delays or interruptions of deliveries could negatively affect our business.  Also, a fire, tornado, or other disaster at one of our distribution centers could disrupt our timely receiving, processing and shipment of merchandise to our stores which could adversely affect our business.The implementation of our supply chain initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail.We maintain a network of distribution facilities and have plans to build new facilities to support our growth objectives. Delays in opening distribution centers could adversely affect our future operations by slowing store growth, which may in turn reduce revenue growth.  In addition, distribution-related construction or expansion projects entail risks which could cause delays and cost overruns, such as: shortages of materials; shortages of skilled labor or work stoppages; unforeseen construction, scheduling, engineering, environmental or geological problems; weather interference; fires or other casualty losses; and unanticipated cost increases.  The completion date and ultimate cost of future projects could differ significantly from initial expectations due to construction-related or other reasons.  We cannot guarantee that all projects will be completed on time or within established budgets. We continue to make significant technology investments in our supply chain.  These initiatives are designed to streamline our distribution process so that we can optimize the delivery of goods and services to our stores and distribution centers in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost.  The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of these initiatives, including those associated with managing third-party service providers and employing new web-based tools and services, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, our improved supply chain technology might not provide the anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits, or the initiatives might fail altogether.If we are unable to maintain or upgrade our management information systems and software programs or if we are unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner, our operations may be disrupted or become less efficient and our strategic business initiatives may not be successful.We depend on management information systems for many aspects of our business.  We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems so that we can continue to support our business.  We could be materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand systems, particularly in light of the contemplated continued store growth.The success of our strategic business initiatives designed to increase our sales and improve margin is dependent in varying degrees on the timely delivery and the functionality of information technology systems to support them.   Extended delays or cost overruns in securing, developing and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support the strategic business initiatives would delay and possibly even prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of those initiatives.We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to repurchase our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program. Although our Board of Directors has indicated an intention to pay future quarterly cash dividends on our common stock, any determination to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the future will be based primarily upon our financial condition, results of operations, business requirements, and our Board of Directors' continuing determination that the declaration of dividends is in the best interests of our stockholders and is in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the dividend.  Furthermore, although our Board of Directors has authorized a $1 billion share repurchase program through April 2015, we may discontinue this program at any time. 11IndexThe market price for our common stock might be volatile and could result in a decline in value. The price at which our common stock trades may be volatile and could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to our operating results, general trends and prospects for the retail industry, announcements by our competitors, analyst recommendations, our ability to meet or exceed analysts' or investors' expectations, the condition of the financial markets and other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. These fluctuations, as well as general economic and market conditions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock notwithstanding our actual operating performance. Effective tax rate changes and results of examinations by taxing authorities could materially impact our results.Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix being lower than historical results in states where we have lower statutory rates and higher than historical results in states where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other state and local taxing authorities.  Like many retailers, a portion of our sales are to tax-exempt customers. The business activities of our customers and the intended use of the unique products sold by us create a challenging and complex compliance environment.  These circumstances create risk that we could be challenged as to the propriety of our sales tax compliance. Our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities.Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business and results.The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock.12IndexItem 1B