ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

The Company's business faces many risks. These risks include those described
below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to
the Company or that the Company currently deems immaterial. If any of the events
or circumstances described in the following risk factors occurs, the Company's
business, financial condition or results of operations may suffer, and the
trading price of the Company's common stock could decline. These risk factors
should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K.

GENERAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE.
The Company has exposure to potentially higher interest rates, higher fuel and
other energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, and other economic
factors that adversely affect consumer demand for the merchandise offered by the
Company. Additionally, changes in the mix of products sold to a mix with a lower
overall gross margin or other increased cost of sales, along with slower
inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory, could adversely affect
the Company's financial performance. High levels of unemployment, inflation,
changes in tax and other laws and other adverse developments in the economy may
also adversely affect consumer demand for the Company's merchandise, adversely
affect gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or
otherwise adversely affect the Company's operations and operating results.

INFLATIONARY PRESSURES, INCLUDING RISING ENERGY PRICES, MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE
COMPANY'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
Although the Company cannot accurately determine the full effect of inflation on
its operations, it believes its sales and results of operations have been
affected by inflation. The Company is subject to market risk with respect to the
pricing of certain products and services, which include, among other items,
steel, grain, petroleum, corn, soybean and other commodities as well as
transportation services. Moreover, in the last few years, energy prices have
risen dramatically, which has resulted in increased fuel costs for the Company's
business and utility costs for the Company's stores. The Company has been
successful in reducing or mitigating the effects of inflation, principally


                                       6


through selective buying from the most competitive vendors and by increasing
retail prices. However, there is no assurance that the Company will be
successful in reducing or mitigating the effect of inflation on the Company in
the future.

THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT THE COMPANY WILL BE ABLE TO CONTINUE TO INCREASE
SALES AT ITS EXISTING STORES.
The Company experiences fluctuations in its same-store sales, which are defined
as stores which have completed twelve months of sales. The Company's success
depends, in part, upon its ability to improve sales at its existing stores.
Various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail sales
environment, the Company's ability to efficiently source and distribute
products, changes in the Company's merchandise mix, competition, current
economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional
events, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. These factors
may cause the Company's same-store sales results to differ materially from prior
periods and from expectations. Past same-store sales are not necessarily an
indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that the Company's
same-store sales will not decrease in the future. Any failure to meet the
same-store sales expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more
future periods could reduce the market price of the Company's common stock.

THE COMPANY'S FAILURE TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE GROWTH COULD IMPAIR ITS BUSINESS.
Even if the Company is able to implement, to a significant degree, its key
business strategy of expanding its store base, it may experience managerial or
operational problems, which may prevent any significant increase in
profitability or negatively impact its cash flow. To manage its planned
expansion, the Company must ensure the continuing adequacy of its existing
systems, controls and procedures, including product distribution facilities,
store management, financial controls and information systems. There can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to achieve its planned expansion, that
the new stores will be effectively integrated into the Company's existing
operations or that such stores will be profitable.

IF THE COMPANY FAILS TO OPEN NEW STORES IN THE MANNER CURRENTLY CONTEMPLATED,
THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.
A key part of the Company's key business strategy includes the expansion of its
base of stores by opening new stores. If the Company is unable to implement this
strategy, the Company's ability to increase its sales, profitability, and cash
flow could be impaired significantly. To the extent that the Company is unable
to open new stores in the manner the Company anticipates (due to unforeseen
delays in construction or site approval), the Company's sales growth would be
dependent on increases in same-store sales. Any failure to meet the growth
expectations of investors and security analysts in one or more future periods
could reduce the market price of the Company's stock.

COMPETITION IN THE COMPANY'S INDUSTRY MAY HINDER THE COMPANY'S ABILITY TO
EXECUTE ITS BUSINESS STRATEGY AND ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS OPERATIONS.
The Company operates in a highly competitive market. The principal competitive
factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock
consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. The
Company believes it has successfully differentiated itself from general
merchandise, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers by
focusing on its specialized market niche (i.e., supplying the lifestyle needs of
recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle, as
well as tradesmen and small businesses). However, the Company does face select
competition from these entities, as well as competition from independently-owned
retail farm and ranch stores, several privately-held regional farm store chains
and farm cooperatives. Some of these competitors are units of large national or
regional chains that have substantially greater financial and other resources
than the Company.

WEATHER CONDITIONS MAY HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL
RESULTS.
Historically, weather conditions have had a significant impact on the Company's
operating results. Weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases
the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices. In recent years,
the Company has experienced unusually severe weather conditions, including ice
storms, floods and wind damage, hurricanes and a summer dearth of water and
pasture in some states. Weather conditions also directly affect the demand for
petroleum products, particularly during the winter heating season. Accordingly,
the weather can have a material effect on the Company's financial condition and
results of operations.

THERE ARE CERTAIN RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SEASONAL NATURE OF THE COMPANY'S
BUSINESS.
The Company's working capital needs and borrowings generally peak in the first
fiscal quarter because lower sales are generated while expenses are incurred in
preparation for the spring selling season. If cash on hand and borrowings under
existing credit facilities are ever insufficient to meet the seasonal needs or
if cash flow generated during the


                                       7


spring and summer is insufficient to repay associated borrowings on a timely
basis, this seasonality could have a material adverse effect on our business.

THE COMPANY FACES RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH VENDORS FROM WHOM THE COMPANY'S PRODUCTS
ARE SOURCED.
The products sold by the Company are sourced from a variety of domestic and
international vendors. Foreign sourcing of many of the products sold is an
important factor in the Company's financial performance. All of the Company's
vendors must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental
laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting required vendor standards of
conduct. The ability to find qualified vendors that meet Company standards, and
access products in a timely and efficient manners, is a significant challenge,
especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. These and
other issues affecting the Company's vendors, including merchandise quality and
financial instability of suppliers, could adversely affect the Company's
financial performance. Additionally, one vendor accounted for approximately 13%
of the Company's purchases in fiscal 2005. If this vendor were unable to meet
the growing supply needs of the Company, sales could be adversely affected.

THE COMPANY FACES RISKS RELATING TO ITS RELIANCE ON FOREIGN SUPPLIERS.
The Company relies on foreign manufacturers for various products that are sold.
In addition, many of the Company's domestic suppliers purchase a portion of
their products from foreign sources. The Company relies on its long-term
relationships with its suppliers but has no long-term contracts with such
suppliers. The Company's future success will depend in large measure upon its
ability to maintain its existing supplier relationships or to develop new ones.
This reliance increases the risk of inadequate and untimely supplies of various
products due to local political, economic, social, or environmental conditions,
transportation delays, restrictive actions by foreign governments, or changes in
United States laws and regulations affecting imports or domestic distribution.
As an importer, the Company's business is subject to the risks generally
associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations,
economic disruptions, delays in shipments, transportation capacity and costs,
currency exchange rates and changes in political or economic conditions in
countries from which the Company purchases products. If any such factors were to
render the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or
impractical or if additional United States quotas, duties, taxes or other
charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of the Company's
products in the future, the Company's financial condition and results of
operations could be materially adversely affected.

THE COMPANY'S FAILURE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES COULD ADVERSELY
AFFECT THE COMPANY'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE.
The ability to continue to expand operations depends on the Company's ability to
attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified employees. The
ability to meet labor needs generally while controlling wage and related labor
costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a
sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels,
prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs
and changes in employment legislation. If the Company is unable to locate, to
attract or to retain qualified personnel, or if costs of labor or related costs
increase significantly, the Company's financial performance could be adversely
affected.

THE COMPANY MAY BE SUBJECT TO PRODUCT LIABILITY AND OTHER CLAIMS IN THE ORDINARY
COURSE OF BUSINESS.
The Company's business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in
the ordinary course of business. The Company maintains general liability
insurance with a $250,000 deductible for each occurrence and a $5,000,000
aggregate retention. The Company also maintains umbrella limits above the
primary general and products liability cover. In many cases, the Company has
indemnification rights against the manufacturers of the products and their
products liability insurance. The Company's ability to recover under such
insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the financial viability
of the insurers and manufacturers and the specific allegations of a claim. The
Company cannot assure that its insurance coverage or the manufacturers'
indemnity will be available or sufficient in any future cases brought against
the Company.

IF THE COMPANY EXPERIENCES DIFFICULTIES WITH ITS MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS,
ITS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.
The Company depends on management information systems for many aspects of its
business. The Company will be materially adversely affected if its management
information systems are disrupted or it is unable to improve, upgrade, maintain
and expand systems, particularly in light of the contemplated continued
significant increases in the number of the Company's stores.


                                       8


THERE IS NO ASSURANCE THAT THE COMPANY'S PRODUCT INNOVATIONS AND MARKETING
SUCCESSES WILL CONTINUE.
The Company believes that its past performance has been based on, and future
success will depend upon, in part, the ability to continue to improve existing
product offerings through product innovation and to market new products. There
is no assurance that the Company will be successful in the introduction and
marketing of any new products or product innovations, or that innovations to
existing product offerings will be introduced in a timely manner to satisfy
customer needs or expectations. Failure to introduce new products successfully
and in a timely manner could harm the Company's ability to grow the business and
could have a material adverse effect on results of the Company's operations and
financial condition.

The Company's success depends on its ability to anticipate and respond in a
timely manner to changing customer demand and preferences for products and
supplies used in recreational farming and ranching. If the Company misjudges the
market, the Company may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced
to take significant inventory markdowns. Shortages of key items could also have
a materially adverse impact on operating results.

ITEM 1B