Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”  Forward-looking statements are based on currently available information and are based on our current expectations and projections about future events.  We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.







  



ii







  




PART I




Item 1.                      Business




Overview




Tractor Supply Company is the largest operator of retail farm and ranch stores in the United States and is focused on supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle, as well as tradesmen and small businesses.  We operate retail stores under the names Tractor Supply Company and Del’s Farm Supply and operate a website under the name TractorSupply.com.  Our stores are located in towns outlying major metropolitan markets and in rural
communities, and they offer the following comprehensive selection of merchandise:








·  


Equine, pet and small animal products, including items necessary for their health, care, growth and containment;








·  


Hardware, truck, towing and tool products;








·  


Seasonal products, including lawn and garden items, power equipment, gifts and toys;








·  


Maintenance products for agricultural and rural use; and








·  


Work/recreational clothing and footwear.







Our Tractor Supply stores typically range in size from 15,000 to 19,000 square feet of inside selling space along with additional outside selling space.  We use a standard 15,250 square foot prototype for most new built-to-suit locations.  In some smaller markets we utilize a 12,500 square foot format with slightly less inventory and lower occupancy cost than our prototype but a similar product assortment.  For new stores located in existing buildings, one of several layout formats is utilized.




Tractor Supply Company has one reportable industry segment – farm and ranch retail sales, both at our retail locations and online.




At December 31, 2011, we operated 1,085 retail farm and ranch stores in 44 states.




Seasonality




Our business is highly seasonal.  Historically, our sales and profits have been the highest in the second and fourth fiscal quarters due to the sale of seasonal products.  We experience our highest inventory and accounts payable balances during the first fiscal quarter for purchases of seasonal products in anticipation of the spring selling season and again during the third fiscal quarter in anticipation of the cold-weather selling season.




Business Strategy




We believe our sales and earnings growth is a result of executing our business strategy, which includes the following key components:


 

Market Niche

We have identified a specialized market niche:  supplying the lifestyle needs of recreational farmers and ranchers and those who enjoy the rural lifestyle (which we refer to as the “Out Here” lifestyle), as well as tradesmen and small businesses.  By focusing our product mix on these core customers, we believe we are differentiated from general merchandise, home center and other specialty retailers.




Customer Service

We are committed to providing our customers reliable product availability and a high level of in-store service through our motivated, well-trained store team members. We believe the ability of our store team members to provide friendly, responsive and seasoned advice helps our customers find the right products to satisfy their everyday needs in addition to the specialty items needed to complete their rural lifestyle projects.  We believe this commitment to customer service promotes strong customer loyalty and repeat shopping.  As such, we provide our store team members with training, product knowledge and decision-making authority to enable them to meet our customers’ needs.


 



  



1







  


 


We endeavor to staff our stores with courteous, highly motivated team members and devote considerable resources to training store team members, often in cooperation with our vendors.  Our training programs include (i) a management training program which covers all aspects of our store operations, (ii) regular training on customer service and selling skills, (iii) product knowledge modules produced in conjunction with key vendors, (iv) frequent management skills training classes, (v) semi-annual store manager meetings with vendor product presentations, (vi) vendor sponsored in-store training programs, and (vii) ongoing product information updates from our management headquarters, the Store Support
Center.  We hire and train store team members with farming and ranching backgrounds, with particular emphasis on general maintenance, equine and welding.




We use a third party provider to measure our level of customer service.  This process allows customers to provide feedback on their shopping experience.  Based on the third party provider’s data, we consider our customer satisfaction scores to be among the best in class.  We critically evaluate the feedback we receive from our customers and initiate improvements at the individual store level based on that feedback.


 


Store Environment

Our stores are designed and managed to make shopping an enjoyable experience and to maximize sales and operating efficiencies.  Stores utilize several layouts designed to provide an open environment, optimal product placement and visual display locations. In addition, these layouts allow for departmental space to be easily reallocated and visual displays to be changed for seasonal products and promotions. Display and product placement information is sent to stores weekly to ensure quality and uniformity among the stores.  Informative signs are located throughout each store to assist customers with purchasing decisions and merchandise location.  These signs provide customers with a
comparison of product qualities, clear pricing and useful information regarding product benefits and suggestions for appropriate accessories. The general uniformity of our store layouts and visual displays afford our customers a feeling of familiarity and enhances the shopping experience. To further enhance the shopping experience, all of our store team members wear highly visible red vests, aprons or smocks with nametags, and our customer service and checkout counters are conveniently located.




Merchandising

We offer a differentiated assortment of products for those seeking to enjoy the “Out Here” lifestyle.  Our broad product assortment is tailored to meet the regional and geographic needs of our markets, as well as the physical store size.  Our full line of product offerings is supported by a strong in-stock inventory position with an average of 16,000 to 19,500 unique products per store.  No one product accounted for more than 10% of our sales during 2011.  Additionally, our store team members utilize our special order process to assist customers with related products we do not carry in our
stores.




Our stores carry a wide selection of high quality, nationally recognized, name brand merchandise. We also market a growing list of products under our “private-label programs,” i.e. products manufactured for us by a number of vendors. The trademarks in the private label brand names are owned by us. Our private label brands represented approximately 23% of our total sales in fiscal 2011 and approximately 21% of our total sales in fiscal 2010 and 2009.  Our private label brand names include:




· Producers Pride and Dumor (livestock feed)

· Retriever, Paws ‘n Claws, and 4health (pet foods)

· Countyline (livestock, farm and ranch equipment)

· C.E. Schmidt (apparel and footwear)

· Huskee (outdoor power equipment)

· Royal Wing (bird feeding supplies)

· JobSmart (tools and tool chests)

· Traveller (truck/automotive products)

· Groundwork (lawn and garden supplies)

· Red Shed (gifts and collectibles)

· Bit & Bridle and Blue Mountain (apparel)

· Redstone (heating products)




We believe that our ability to offer high quality private label products at compelling prices provides superior value for our customers, a strategic advantage for us, and positions us as a destination store.






  



2







  



The following chart indicates the percentage of sales represented by each of our major product categories during fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009:







  

Percent of Sales



Product Category:


2011

 

2010

 

2009



Livestock and Pet

40
%
 
39
%
 
39
%


Hardware, Tools and Truck

23
 
 
23
 
 
23
 


Seasonal, Gift and Toy Products

21
 
 
22
 
 
22
 


Clothing and Footwear

10
 
 
10
 
 
10
 


Agriculture

6
 
 
6
 
 
6
 


Total

100
%
 
100
%
 
100
%






Our products are sourced through both domestic and international vendors.  Our business is not dependent upon any one vendor or particular group of vendors.  We purchase our products from a core group of approximately 700 vendors, with no one vendor representing more than 10% of our purchases during fiscal 2011.  Approximately 275 vendors accounted for approximately 90% of our purchases during fiscal 2011.  We have not experienced any significant difficulty in obtaining satisfactory alternative sources of supply for our products, and we believe that adequate sources of supply exist at substantially similar costs for nearly all of our products.  We have no
material long-term contractual commitments with any of our vendors.




We maintain a dedicated inventory management team to focus exclusively on all forecasting and replenishment functions.  This centralized direction permits our buying teams to focus more strategic attention toward vendor line reviews, assortment planning and testing of new products and programs.  Through the combined efforts of these teams, we continue to improve our overall inventory productivity and in-stock position.




Distribution

We currently operate a distribution network for supplying our stores with merchandise, and in fiscal 2011 our stores received approximately 70% of our merchandise through this network, while approximately 30% of our merchandise is shipped direct to the store from our vendors.  Our seven distribution centers are located in Kentucky, Indiana, Georgia, Maryland, Texas, Nebraska, and Washington, representing total distribution capacity of 3.7 million square feet.  In 2011 we completed construction of the 834,000 square foot facility in Kentucky, which became operational during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.  We continue to improve the technology in our distribution centers, and currently two
of our seven facilities are utilizing a new warehouse management system that provides for better movement of inventory through automation.  We will continue to refine this new system, and expect that it will be implemented across the entire distribution network over the next few years.




We manage our inbound and outbound transportation activity in-house through the use of a web-based transportation management system.  We utilize several common carriers for store deliveries.  We manage our transportation costs through carrier negotiations, the monitoring of transportation routes, and the scheduling of deliveries.




Marketing

We utilize an "everyday value prices" strategy to consistently offer our products at competitive prices complemented by strategically planned promotions throughout the year.  We regularly monitor prices at competing stores and adjust our prices as appropriate.




To generate store traffic and position ourselves as a destination store, we promote broad selections of merchandise with newspaper circulars, customer targeted direct mail and email and internet offerings.  Vendors frequently support these specific programs by offering temporary cost reductions, honoring coupons and funding gift card rebate programs.  Our vendors also provide assistance with product presentation and fixture design, brochures, support for in-store events, and point-of-purchase materials for customer education and product knowledge for our team members. 






  



3







  



Multi-Channel

We do business with our customers across multiple touch points including our stores, website, email and direct mail.  Our goal is to be available when and how our customers choose to engage with our brand.  Connecting with consumers online provides the opportunity to allow customers to shop at a time and place that fits their schedule while delivering enhanced product information, research and decision tools that support product selection and informational needs in specific subject areas.  Additionally, we give our customers the ability to purchase products and have
them shipped to one of our retail stores, their homes or offices.  We believe this capability further enhances customer service and extends our market to areas where our retail stores are not currently located.



 

Competition

We operate in a competitive retail industry. The principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service. We compete with general merchandise retailers, home center retailers, specialty and discount retailers, independently owned retail farm and ranch stores, numerous privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives, as well as internet-based retailers.  However, we believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from these entities by focusing on our specialized market niche for customers living the rural lifestyle.




Management and Team Members

As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 8,700 full-time and approximately 7,700 part-time team members. We also employ additional part-time team members during peak periods.  We are not party to any collective bargaining agreements.




Our store operations are organized into nine regions.  Each region is led by a regional manager and the region is further organized into districts, which are led by a district manager or area manager.  Our regional managers, district managers, area managers, store managers and other distribution and support personnel have contributed significantly to our performance.  We have internal advisory boards, one comprised of store managers and the other comprised of district managers.  These groups bring a grassroots perspective to operational initiatives and generate chain-wide endorsement of proposed “best-practice” solutions.




All of our team members participate in one of various incentive programs, which provide the opportunity to receive additional compensation based upon team and/or Company performance. We also provide our team members the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan and a 401(k) retirement savings plan (we contribute to the 401(k) savings plan solely through a cash match). Additionally, we share in the cost of health insurance provided to our team members, and team members receive a discount on merchandise purchased at our stores.




We encourage a “promote from within” environment when internal resources permit.  We also provide internal leadership development programs designed to mentor our high potential team members for continued progress and believe we have satisfactory relationships with our team members. Our district managers, area managers, and store managers have an average length of service of approximately six years.  Management believes internal promotions, coupled with the hiring of individuals with previous retail experience, will provide the management structure necessary to support our planned store growth.




Continuous Improvement

We are committed to a continuous improvement program called Tractor Value System (“TVS”), which is our catalyst to drive continuous improvement throughout our organization.  TVS is a business management system that emphasizes, through team member engagement, a focus on continuous improvement.  Utilizing TVS, we improve processes by identifying and accepting the need for change of current practices to reduce costs, shorten lead times, and drive innovation.  We have implemented numerous continuous improvement projects (comprised of team members from all areas of our business) to evaluate key operations and implement process changes that will improve efficiency, reduce costs and
strengthen processes. Team members are empowered and expected to challenge long-held paradigms and improve processes. Our management encourages the participation of all team members in decision-making, regularly solicits input and suggestions from our team members and incorporates suggestions into our improvement activities.






  



4







  



Management Information and Control Systems

We have invested considerable resources in our management information and control systems to ensure superior customer service, manage the purchase and distribution of our merchandise and improve our operating efficiencies. Our management information and control systems include a point-of-sale system, a supply chain management and replenishment system, a warehouse management system, a radio frequency and voice-activated picking system in the distribution centers, a price optimization system, a vendor purchase order control system and a merchandise presentation system. These systems are integrated through an enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system.  This ERP system tracks merchandise from
initial order through ultimate sale and interfaces with our financial systems.




We continue to evaluate and improve the functionality of our systems to maximize their effectiveness. Such efforts include ongoing hardware and software evaluations and upgrades to support optimal software configurations and application performance.  We plan to upgrade our information technology and implement other efficiency-driving system enhancements (including the continued rollout of a new warehouse management system to distribution centers, point-of-sale system upgrades, enhanced security tools, and store and support center hardware refreshes) in 2012.  Additionally, we will be upgrading our e-commerce website which will include the integration of order management, drop shipment, fulfillment
and call center activities.  We will continue to strengthen the security of our information systems and support store and distribution center expansion.  These efforts are directed toward constantly improving business processes and achieving the most efficient and effective use of systems to manage our operations while ensuring a secure and reliable environment.  




Growth Strategy




Our current and long-term growth strategy is to:  (1) expand geographic market presence through opening new retail stores, (2) enhance financial performance through same-store sales growth achieved through targeted merchandising programs with an “everyday value prices” philosophy and supported by strong customer service, (3) enhance product margin through strategic product sourcing and regional allocation, a strong private label offering, and optimization of product pricing, transportation and distribution costs, (4) leverage operating costs, especially advertising, distribution and corporate overhead by focusing on opportunities for continuous improvement and elimination of waste in all of
our processes, (5) expand market opportunities via internet sales accomplished by improving our product content and enhancing our customers’ online experience and (6) expand through selective acquisition, as such opportunities arise, to enhance penetration into new and existing markets as a complementary strategy to organic growth.




Over the past five years we have experienced considerable sales growth, with a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 12.3%. We plan to open 90 to 95 new stores in 2012, a selling square footage increase of approximately 8.0%.  We opened 85 new stores in 2011 and 74 new stores in 2010, a square footage increase of approximately 7.8% and 7.4%, respectively.




We operated 1,085 retail farm and ranch stores in 44 states as of December 31, 2011.  Given the size of the communities that we target, we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in many existing and new markets. We have developed a proven method for selecting store sites and have identified over 1,000 additional markets for new Tractor Supply stores, inclusive of recently identified small market locations.  Approximately 55% of our stores are in freestanding buildings and 45% are located in strip shopping centers.  We lease approximately 93% of our store sites and own the remaining 7% of store sites.






  



5







  



Stewardship and Compliance with Environmental Matters




Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment.  We are committed to conducting business in an environmentally responsible manner. This commitment impacts all areas of our business, including store construction and maintenance, energy usage, supply chain, product selection and delivery of product knowledge to our customers. 

 
 

Executive Officers of the Registrant




Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the following list is included in Part I of this Report in lieu of being included in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 3, 2012.




The following is a list of the names and ages of all executive officers of the registrant, indicating all positions and offices with the registrant held by each such person and each person’s principal occupations and employment during at least the past five years:








Name


Position


Age



James F. Wright


Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer


62



Gregory A. Sandfort


President and Chief Merchandising Officer


56



Anthony F. Crudele


Executive Vice President – Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer


55



Kimberly D. Vella


Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer


45



Benjamin F. Parrish, Jr.


Senior Vice President – General Counsel and Corporate Secretary


55




__________________




James F. Wright has served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since February 2009, and prior to that time served as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer from November 2007 to February 2009, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company from October 2004 to November 2007, and as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from October 2000 to October 2004.  Mr. Wright has served as a director of the Company since 2002.




Gregory A. Sandfort has served as President and Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company since February 2009, and prior to that time served as Executive Vice President-Chief Merchandising Officer of the Company since November 2007.  Mr. Sandfort previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer at Michaels Stores, Inc. from March 2006 to August 2007 and as Executive Vice President – General Merchandise Manager at Michaels Stores, Inc. from January 2004 to February 2006.




Anthony F. Crudele has served as Executive Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since January 2007, after having served as Senior Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company since November 2005.  Mr. Crudele previously served as Chief Financial Officer at Gibson Guitar from August 2003 to September 2005, as Chief Financial Officer of Xcelerate Corp. from January 2000 to January 2003, and at The Sports Authority from 1989 through 1999 (serving as Chief Financial Officer from 1996 through 1999).




Kimberly D. Vella has served as Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer since July 2010, and prior to that time served as Senior Vice President-Human Resources of the Company since January 2007, after having served as Vice President-Human Resources of the Company since October 2001.




Benjamin F. Parrish, Jr. has served as Senior Vice President-General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company since October 2010.  Mr. Parrish previously served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MV Transportation, Inc., a transportation services company, from September 2008 until he joined the Company.  He served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Central Parking Corporation, a parking services company, from 1998 to 2008. 




Additional Information




We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other reports as required. The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC  20549.  The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site at sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and
information statements, and other information filed electronically.






  



6







  



We make available free of charge through our Internet website, TractorSupply.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report.




Our code of ethics, which is applicable to all of our team members, including our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller, along with our Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of our Audit, Compensation, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees of our Board of Directors, is posted on our website.




Item 1A.                 Risk Factors




Our business faces many risks. Those risks of which we are currently aware and deem to be material are described below.  If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations may significantly suffer, and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Form 10-K.




General economic conditions may adversely affect our financial performance.

Our results of operations may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including discretionary spending. Economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs, higher labor and healthcare costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced competitors. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely affect our growth and profitability.  Additionally, changes
in the mix of products sold to a mix with a lower overall gross margin or other increased cost of sales, along with slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory, could adversely affect our operations and operating results.




Purchase price volatility, including inflationary and deflationary pressures, may adversely affect our financial performance.

Although we cannot determine the full effect of inflation and deflation on our operations, we believe our sales and results of operations are affected by both.  We are subject to market risk with respect to the pricing of certain products and services, which include, among other items, steel, grain, petroleum, corn, cotton and other commodities as well as transportation services.  Therefore, we may experience both inflationary and deflationary pressure on product cost, which may impact consumer demand and, as a result, sales and gross margin.  Our strategy is to reduce or mitigate the effects of purchase price volatility principally by taking advantage of vendor incentive programs,
economies of scale from increased volume of purchases, adjusting retail prices and selectively buying from the most competitive vendors without sacrificing quality.  Due to the competitive environment, such conditions could adversely impact our financial performance.




We may be unable to increase sales at our existing stores.

We experience fluctuations in our same-store sales, which are defined as stores which have completed twelve months of sales.  Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales at our existing stores.  Various factors affect same-store sales, including the general retail sales environment, our ability to efficiently source and distribute products, changes in our merchandise mix, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions.  These factors may cause our same-store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations.  Past
same-store sales are not necessarily an indication of future results, and there can be no assurance that our same-store sales will not decrease in the future.




Our failure to effectively manage growth could impair our business.

Even if we are able to implement, to a significant degree, our key business strategy of expanding our store base, we may experience managerial or operational problems, which may prevent any expected increase in profitability or negatively impact our cash flow. To manage our planned expansion, we must ensure the continuing adequacy of our existing systems, controls and procedures, including product distribution facilities, store management, financial controls and information systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve our planned expansion, that the new stores will be effectively integrated into our existing operations or that such stores will be profitable.






  



7







  



Capital requirements for growth may not be available.

The construction and opening or acquisition of new stores and distribution facilities, along with the remodeling and renovation of existing stores, require significant amounts of capital. In the past, our growth has been funded primarily through bank borrowings and internally generated cash flow.  Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect the ability of the banks to meet their commitments.  Our access to funds under the credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments.  Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments to us if they experience shortages of capital and
liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time.  In addition, tighter lending practices have made it more challenging for our real estate developers to obtain financing under reasonable loan terms and conditions.  Unfavorable lending trends could impact the timing of our store openings and materially adversely affect our ability to open new built-to-suit stores in desirable locations.




Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives, or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business.  Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged.  Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases, cash dividends or other discretionary uses of cash.




Failure to open new stores in the manner and number currently contemplated could adversely affect our financial performance.

An integral part of our business strategy includes the expansion of our base of stores by opening new stores. This expansion strategy is dependent on our ability to find suitable locations, and we face competition from many retailers for such sites.  If we are unable to implement this strategy, our ability to increase our sales, profitability, and cash flow could be impaired significantly. To the extent that we are unable to open new stores in the manner we anticipate (due to, among other reasons, site approval or unforeseen delays in construction), our sales growth may be impeded. 




There can be no assurance that our new store openings will be successful or result in greater sales and profitability for the Company. New stores build their sales volumes and refine their merchandise selection over time and, as a result, generally have lower gross margins and higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales than our more mature stores. As we continue to open new stores, there may be a negative impact on our results from a lower contribution margin of these new stores until their sales levels ramp to chain average, if at all, as well as from the impact of related pre-opening costs.




Competition in our industry may hinder our ability to execute our business strategy and adversely affect our operations.

We operate in a very competitive market. The principal competitive factors include location of stores, price and quality of merchandise, in-stock consistency, merchandise assortment and presentation, and customer service.  We believe we have successfully differentiated ourselves from general merchandise retailers, home center retailers and other specialty and discount retailers by focusing on our specialized market niche. However, we do face competition from these entities, as well as competition from independently-owned retail farm and ranch stores, privately-held regional farm store chains and farm cooperatives.




Weather conditions may have a significant impact on our financial results.

Historically, weather conditions have had a significant impact on our operating results. Weather conditions affect the demand for, and in some cases the supply of, products, which in turn has an impact on prices.  In past years, we have experienced extreme weather conditions, including snow and ice storms, flood and wind damage, hurricanes, tornadoes and droughts in some states. Weather conditions also directly affect the demand for seasonal products, particularly during the winter heating season. Accordingly, the weather can have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations.




Our merchandising initiatives and marketing emphasis may not provide expected results.

We believe our past performance has been based on, and future success will depend upon, in part, the ability to develop and execute merchandising initiatives with effective marketing.  There is no assurance that we will be successful, or that new initiatives will be executed in a timely manner to satisfy our customers’ needs or expectations.  Failure to execute and promote such initiatives in a timely manner could harm our ability to grow the business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.  Additionally, our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to changing customer demand and
preferences for merchandise.  If we misjudge the market, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns.  Shortages of key items could also have a materially adverse impact on operating results.




We face risks associated with vendors from whom our products are sourced.

The products we sell are sourced from a variety of domestic and international vendors.  As a general rule, we have agreements with our vendors in which the vendors agree to comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and to indemnify us against certain liabilities and costs.  Our ability to recover liabilities and costs under these vendor agreements is dependent upon the financial condition and integrity of the vendors.






  



8







  



We rely on foreign manufacturers for various products that we sell.  In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a portion of their products from foreign sources.  We rely on long-term relationships with our suppliers but have no long-term contracts with such suppliers.  Our future success will depend in large measure upon our ability to maintain our existing supplier relationships or to develop new ones.  This reliance increases the risk of inadequate and untimely supplies of various products due to local political, economic, social, or environmental conditions, transportation delays, restrictive actions by foreign governments, or changes in United States laws and
regulations affecting imports or domestic distribution.  Our vendors may be forced to reduce their production, shut down their operations or file for bankruptcy protection, which could make it difficult for us to serve the market’s needs and could have a material adverse effect on our business.




As an importer, our business is subject to the risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as foreign governmental regulations, economic disruptions, delays in shipments, transportation capacity and costs, currency exchange rates and changes in political or economic conditions in countries from which we purchase products.  If any such factors were to render the conduct of business in particular countries undesirable or impractical or if additional United States quotas, duties, taxes or other charges or restrictions were imposed upon the importation of our products in the future, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.




We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and the anti-bribery laws of other jurisdictions.  Failure to comply with the FCPA could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.




Our failure to attract and retain qualified team members could adversely affect our financial performance.

Our ability to continue expanding operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified team members.  Our ability to meet labor needs while controlling wage and related labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation.  If we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or if costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be adversely affected.




We may be subject to product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business.

Our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business.  We maintain general liability and workers compensation insurance with self-insured retention for each policy type and a deductible for each occurrence.  We also maintain umbrella limits above the primary general liability and product liability coverage.  In many cases, we have indemnification rights against the manufacturers of the products and their products liability insurance.  Our ability to recover under such insurance or indemnification arrangements is subject to the financial viability of the insurers and manufacturers and the specific allegations of a claim.  No assurance can be
given that our insurance coverage or the manufacturers’ indemnity will be available or sufficient in any claims brought against us.




Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in, increased enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state or local laws and regulations.

We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to environmental protection, personal injury, intellectual property, consumer product safety, building, land use and zoning requirements, workplace regulations, wage and hour, privacy and information security and employment law matters. If we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, or if these laws or regulations are violated by importers, manufacturers or distributers, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal fees and costs. In addition, our capital expenditures could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found
to be noncompliant with any existing or future laws or regulations.




A privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the Company’s business.

The protection of customer, employee and Company data is critical to the Company.  The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements.  In connection with credit card sales, we transmit confidential credit card information.  Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of this customer information, and our security measures and those of our technology vendors may not effectively preclude others from obtaining improper access to this information.  Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability
and could seriously disrupt our operations and any resulting negative publicity could significantly harm our reputation.






  



9







  



In addition, states and the federal government are increasingly enacting laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft.  We collect personal information from consumers in the course of doing business.  These laws will likely increase the costs of doing business and, if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these new laws, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies, which could harm our business.




If we experience difficulties with our management information systems, our financial performance may be adversely affected.

We depend on management information systems for many aspects of our business.  We could be materially adversely affected if our management information systems are disrupted or if we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain and expand systems, particularly in light of the contemplated continued store growth.




If we are unable to secure or develop and implement sufficiently robust new technologies to deliver business process solutions within the appropriate time frame, cost and functionality, our strategic business initiatives that are dependent upon these technologies may not be successful.

The success of our strategic business initiatives designed to increase our sales and improve margin is dependent in varying degrees on the timely delivery and the functionality of information technology systems to support them.   Extended delays or cost overruns in securing, developing and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support the strategic business initiatives would delay and possibly even prevent us from realizing the projected benefits of those initiatives.




The implementation of our supply chain and technology initiatives could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail.

We have made, and we plan to continue to make, significant investments in our supply chain and technology. These initiatives are designed to streamline our distribution process so that we can optimize the delivery of goods and services to our stores and distribution centers in a timely manner and at a reasonable cost. The cost and potential problems and interruptions associated with the implementation of these initiatives, including those associated with managing third-party service providers and employing new web-based tools and services, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term. In addition, our improved supply chain and new or upgraded technology might not provide the
anticipated benefits, it might take longer than expected to realize the anticipated benefits, or the initiatives might fail altogether.




Effective tax rate changes and results of examinations by taxing authorities could materially impact our results.

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix being lower than historical results in states where we have lower statutory rates and higher than historical results in states where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the measurement of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other state and local taxing authorities.  Like many retailers, a portion of our sales are to tax-exempt customers. The business activities of our customers and the intended use of the unique products sold by us create a challenging
and complex compliance environment.  These circumstances create risk that we could be challenged as to the propriety of our sales tax compliance. Our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities.




Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business and results.

The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit
our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock.






  



10







  



Item 1B