Item 1A. “Risk Factors.”

 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

 

These risks, which should be considered carefully with the information provided elsewhere in this report, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

 

Fluctuations in commodity prices and in the availability of raw materials, especially feed grains, live cattle, live swine and energy, could negatively impact our earnings. 

Our results of operations and financial condition are dependent upon the cost and supply of raw materials such as feed grains, live cattle, live swine and ingredients, as well as the selling prices for our products, many of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand over which we have limited or no control. Corn and soybean meal are major production costs in the poultry industry, representing roughly 41% of the cost of growing a chicken in fiscal 2007. As a result, fluctuations in prices for these feed ingredients, which include competing demand for corn and soybean meal for use in the manufacture of renewable energy, can significantly affect our earnings. Production of feed ingredients is affected by, among other things, weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for grains and other feed ingredients, as well as agricultural
policies of domestic and foreign governments. 

 

We do not have facilities of our own to raise cattle in the United States; however, our beef facility in Canada has a feed yard that supplies approximately 20% of its live cattle needs. At times in the United States, we raise a small number of cattle under contract at feed yards owned by third parties; however, most of the cattle we process are purchased from independent producers. We have cattle buyers located throughout cattle producing areas who visit feed yards and buy live cattle on the open spot market. We also enter into various risk-sharing and procurement arrangements with producers who help secure a supply of livestock for daily start-up operations at our facilities. The majority of our live swine supply is obtained through various procurement arrangements with independent producers. We also employ buyers who purchase hogs on a daily basis, generally a few days before the animals are required for
processing. In addition, we raise live swine and sell feeder pigs to independent producers for feeding to processing weight and have contract growers feed a minimal amount of company-owned live swine for our own processing needs. Any decrease in the supply of cattle or swine on the spot market could increase the price of these raw materials and further increase per head cost of production due to lower capacity utilization, which could adversely affect our financial results. 

 

7















TYSON FOODS, INC.




Market demand and the prices we receive for our products may fluctuate due to competition from global and domestic food processors. 

We face competition from other global, national and regional food producers and processors. The factors on which we compete include: 

 

-price;

-product safety and quality;

-brand identification;

-breadth and depth of the product offering;

-availability of our products;

-customer service; and

-credit terms.

 

Demand for our products also is affected by competitors’ promotional spending, the effectiveness of our advertising and marketing programs and the availability or price of competing proteins. 

 

We attempt to obtain prices for our products that reflect, in part, the price we must pay for the raw materials that go into our products. If we are not able to obtain higher prices for our products when the price we pay for raw materials increases, we may be unable to maintain positive margins.

 

Outbreaks of livestock diseases can significantly affect our ability to conduct our operations and demand for our products. 

Demand for our products can be affected significantly by outbreaks of livestock diseases, which can have a significant impact on our financial results. Efforts are taken to control disease risks by adherence to good production practices and extensive precautionary measures designed to ensure the health of livestock. However, outbreaks of disease and other events, which may be beyond our control, either in our own livestock or cattle and hogs owned by independent producers who sell livestock to us, could significantly affect demand for our products, consumer perceptions of certain protein products, the availability of livestock for purchase by us and our ability to conduct our operations. Moreover, the outbreak of livestock diseases, particularly in our Chicken segment, could have a significant effect on the livestock we own by requiring us to, among other things, destroy any affected livestock. Furthermore, an
outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our fresh chicken, beef or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers. This could also result in negative publicity that may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our financial results. 

 

H5N1. There has been substantial publicity regarding a highly pathogenic strain of avian influenza, known as H5N1. H5N1 has been affecting Asia since 2002 and has been found in other parts of the world as recently as 2006. It is widely believed H5N1 is spread by migratory birds, such as ducks and geese. There also have been some cases where H5N1 is believed to have passed from birds to humans, as humans came into contact with live birds infected with the disease. Public concerns about H5N1 led, for a period of time, to a reduction in demand and price for our poultry products outside of the United States. Although H5N1 has not been identified in North America, there have been outbreaks of other low pathogenic strains of avian influenza in North America, including in the United States in 2002 and 2004 and in Mexico for the past several years that, from time to time, have impacted our
operations. These low pathogenic outbreaks have not generated the same level of concern or received the same level of publicity or been accompanied by the same reduction in demand for poultry products as associated with the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain. Accordingly, even if the H5N1 strain does not spread to North America, there can be no assurance it will not significantly adversely affect demand for North American produced poultry internationally and/or domestically. If it were to spread to North America, it could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operations and/or demand for our products. In each case, it could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. 

 

BSE. In December 2003, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) announced a single case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) had been diagnosed in a Washington State dairy cow. The origin of the animal was subsequently traced to a farm in Canada. Shortly after the announcement, several countries (including Japan and South Korea) closed their borders to the importation of edible beef products from the United States. Responding to the loss of export markets, live cattle prices in the United States declined by approximately 18% during the following week. Also in 2003, the Canadian government announced the first confirmed case of BSE in Canada which led the USDA to close the United States’ border to the import of live Canadian cattle. This reduced the supply of live cattle available for processing at our domestic facilities and contributed to lower facility capacity
utilization. The confirmed case in Canada also led several countries to close their borders to the import of edible beef products from Canada, which affected the international sales of our Lakeside, Alberta, facility. In June 2005, the USDA announced a second confirmed case of BSE in the United States and in March 2006 announced the third confirmed case, furthering uncertainty as to whether or when certain closed markets may reopen and whether or when existing open markets may close. A number of these countries subsequently reopened their borders to domestic and Canadian beef; however, some of the countries, including Japan and South Korea, have restrictive conditions that limit the types of product that can be imported. 

 

8















TYSON FOODS, INC.




We are subject to risks associated with our international operations, which could negatively affect our sales to customers in foreign countries, as well as our operations and assets in such countries.

In fiscal 2007, we exported our products to more than 80 countries, including Canada, Central America, China, the European Union, Japan, Mexico, Russia, South Korea and Taiwan. Our export sales for fiscal 2007 totaled $2.7 billion. In addition, we had approximately $211 million of long-lived assets located in foreign countries, primarily Canada and Mexico, at the end of fiscal 2007. Approximately 5% of income before income taxes for fiscal 2007 was from foreign operations.

 

As a result, we are subject to various risks and uncertainties relating to international sales and operations, including: 

 





    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other trade protection measures imposed by foreign countries regarding the import of poultry, beef and pork products, in addition to various import or export licensing requirements imposed by various foreign countries;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            closing of borders by foreign countries to the import of poultry, beef and pork products due to animal disease or other perceived health or safety issues;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the European euro, the British pound sterling, the Brazilian real and the Chinese yuan;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            political and economic conditions;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            difficulties and costs associated with complying with, and enforcing remedies under, a wide variety of complex domestic and international laws, treaties and regulations, including, without limitation, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            different regulatory structures and unexpected changes in regulatory environments;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            tax rates that may exceed those in the United States and earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements and incremental taxes upon repatriation;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws; and  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            distribution costs, disruptions in shipping or reduced availability of freight transportation.  



 

Occurrence of any of these events in the markets where we operate or in other developing markets could jeopardize or limit our ability to transact business in those markets and could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. 

 

We depend on the availability of, and good relations with, our employees. 

We have approximately 104,000 employees, of whom approximately 32,000 are covered by collective bargaining agreements or are members of labor unions. Our operations depend on the availability and relative costs of labor and maintaining good relations with employees and the labor unions. If we fail to maintain good relations with our employees or with the unions, we may experience labor strikes or work stoppages which could adversely affect our operating results. 

 

We depend on contract growers and independent producers to supply us with livestock. 

We contract primarily with independent contract growers to raise the live chickens processed in our poultry operations. A majority of our cattle and hogs are purchased from independent producers who sell livestock to us under marketing contracts or on the open market. If we do not attract and maintain contracts with our growers, or maintain marketing relationships with independent producers, our production operations could be negatively affected. 

 

If our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. 

Our products may be subject to contamination by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella and generic E. coli. These pathogens are found generally in the environment; therefore, there is a risk they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our products. These pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. These risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. We have little, if any, control over proper handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products may be a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of
product liability claims), increased scrutiny and penalties, including injunctive relief and plant closings, by federal and state regulatory agencies, and adverse publicity, which could exacerbate the associated negative consumer reaction. Any of these occurrences may have an adverse effect on our financial results. 

 

9















TYSON FOODS, INC.




Our operations are subject to general risks of litigation. 

We are involved on an on-going basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Trends in litigation may include class actions involving consumers, shareholders, employees or injured persons, and claims relating to commercial, labor, employment, antitrust, securities or environmental matters. Litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could significantly adversely affect our financial results. 

 

Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity position. 

At September 29, 2007, we had approximately $2.8 billion of indebtedness outstanding. We had a borrowing capacity of $1.3 billion, consisting of $748 million available under our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and $537 million under our accounts receivable securitization program at September 29, 2007. We expect our indebtedness, including borrowings under our credit agreements, may increase from time to time in the future for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions, joint ventures or other significant initiatives. Our consolidated indebtedness level could significantly affect our business because: 

 





    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            it may significantly limit or impair our ability to obtain financing in the future;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            a downgrade in our credit rating could restrict or impede our ability to access capital markets at desired rates and increase our borrowing costs;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            it may reduce our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            a portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to interest payments on our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; and  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            it may restrict our ability to pay dividends.  



 

In addition, our debt agreements require us to meet specified financial ratios and limit our ability to enter into various transactions. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and there can be no assurance we will meet those ratios. If we default on any of our indebtedness, or if we are unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our indebtedness would be due and payable immediately, and our business could be significantly adversely affected. 

 

An impairment in the carrying value of goodwill could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and net worth.

Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. In assessing the recoverability of goodwill, we make estimates and assumptions about sales, operating margins growth rates and discount rates based on our budgets, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flow and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and management’s judgment in applying these factors to the assessment of recoverability. Goodwill valuations have been calculated using an income approach based on the present value of future cash flows of each reporting unit. We could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to the annual assessment if we experience disruptions to the business, unexpected significant declines in operating results, divestiture
of a significant component of our business and market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. Impairment charges could substantially affect our reported earnings in the periods of such charges. In addition, impairment charges would negatively impact our financial ratios and could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future. As of September 29, 2007, we had $2.5 billion of goodwill, which represented approximately 24.3% of total assets.

 

Domestic and international government regulations could impose material costs. 

Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and foreign laws and regulations by authorities that oversee food safety standards and processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising and labeling of our products. Our facilities for processing chicken, beef, pork, prepared foods and milling feed and for housing live chickens and swine are subject to a variety of international, federal, state and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, including provisions relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, and to the health and safety of our employees. Our chicken, beef and pork processing facilities are participants in the United States government’s Hazardous Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) program and are subject to the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. In addition, our chicken, beef, pork and prepared foods
products are subject to inspection prior to distribution, primarily by the USDA and the United States Food and Drug Administration. Loss of or failure to obtain necessary permits and registrations could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand, introducing new 

 

10















TYSON FOODS, INC.




products, building new facilities or acquiring new businesses and could adversely affect operating results. Additionally, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. If we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. 

 

A material acquisition, joint venture or other significant initiative could affect our operations and financial condition. 

We continually evaluate potential acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives (collectively, “transactions”), and we may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, processing plants, technologies, products and services from others, which could include material transactions. A material transaction may involve a number of risks, including: 

 





    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            difficulty integrating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating transactions and integrating the businesses acquired;  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            exposure to unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities of acquired companies; and  







    
        
              
        
            - 
        
            the need to obtain additional debt or equity financing for any transaction, which, if obtained, could significantly affect our various financial ratios.  



 

We may not be able to address these problems and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units of our company. If we are unable to do this, expansion could adversely affect our financial results. 

 

Market fluctuations could negatively impact our operating results as we hedge certain transactions. 

Our business is exposed to fluctuating market conditions. We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to various market risks including changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We hold certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, that do not qualify as hedges for financial reporting purposes. These positions are marked to fair value, and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. Therefore, losses on these contracts will adversely affect our reported operating results. While these contracts reduce our exposure to changes in prices for commodity products, the use of such instruments may ultimately limit our ability to benefit from favorable commodity prices. 

 

Deterioration of economic conditions could negatively impact our business. 

Our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Any such changes could significantly adversely affect the demand for our beef, poultry and pork products, or the cost and availability of our needed raw materials, cooking ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. 

 

Changes in consumer preference could negatively impact our business. 

The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reductions for our products, and could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 

 

The loss of one or more of our largest customers could negatively impact our business. 

Our business could suffer significant set backs in revenues and operating income if our customers’ plans and/or markets should change significantly, or if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which accounted for approximately 12.9% of our revenues in fiscal 2007. Many of our agreements with our customers are generally short-term, primarily due to the nature of our products, industry practice and the fluctuation in demand and price for our products. 

 

11















TYSON FOODS, INC.




The consolidation of customers could negatively impact our business.

Our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years, and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the United States and in other major markets. These consolidations have produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, opposing price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. These customers also may use shelf space currently used for our products for their own private label products. If we fail to respond to these trends, our volume growth could slow or we may need to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our products, any of which would adversely affect our profitability.

 

Extreme factors or forces beyond our control could negatively impact our business. 

Natural disasters, fire, bioterrorism, pandemic or extreme weather, including droughts, floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, fuel shortages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption of transportation channels, among other things. Any of these factors, as well as disruptions in our information systems, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 

 

Our renewable energy ventures and other initiatives might not be as successful as we expect.

We have been exploring ways to commercialize animal fats and other by-products from our operations, as well as the poultry litter of our contract growers, to generate energy and other value-added products. As a result, in fiscal 2007 we announced a strategic alliance with ConocoPhillips and the formation of a joint venture with Syntroleum Corporation. We will continue to explore other ways to commercialize opportunities outside our core business, such as renewable energy and other technologically-advanced platforms. These initiatives might not be as financially successful as we initially announce or would expect due to factors that include, but are not limited to, possible discontinuance of tax credits, competing energy prices, failure to operate at the volumes anticipated, abilities of our joint venture partners and our limited experience in some of these new areas.

 

Members of the Tyson family can exercise significant control. 

Members of the Tyson family beneficially own, in the aggregate, 99.97% of our outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, $0.10 par value (Class B stock) and 1.27% of our outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock, $0.10 par value (Class A stock), giving them control of approximately 71% of the total voting power of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, three members of the Tyson family serve on our Board of Directors. As a result, members of the Tyson family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our stockholders, including amendments to our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also
delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other stockholders and could depress our stock price. Additionally, as a result of the Tyson family’s significant ownership of our outstanding voting stock, we have relied on the “controlled company” exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange; therefore, we have elected not to implement the rule that provides for a nominating committee to identify and recommend nominees to our Board of Directors. Pursuant to these exemptions, our compensation committee, which is made up of independent directors, does not have sole authority to determine the compensation of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer.

 

ITEM 1B