Item 1A, “Risk
    Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Caution Concerning Forward-Looking
    Statements” below. Time Warner is under no obligation to
    (and expressly disclaims any obligation to) update or alter its
    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, subsequent events or otherwise.


 



    Available
    Information and Website


 


    The Company’s annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”),
    are available free of charge on the Company’s website at
    www.timewarner.com as soon as reasonably practicable
    after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC.


 



    AOL


 


    AOL LLC (together with its subsidiaries, “AOL”)
    operates a Global Web Services business that provides online
    advertising services on the AOL Network and on third-party
    Internet sites, referred to as the “Third Party
    Network.” AOL’s Global Web Services business also
    develops and operates the AOL Network, a leading network of web
    brands and free client software and services for Internet
    consumers. In addition, through its Access Services business,
    AOL operates one of the largest Internet access subscription
    services in the U.S.


 


    During 2007, AOL continued its transformation from a primarily
    subscription-based
    dial-up
    Internet access business into a primarily advertising-supported
    web services business. Historically, AOL’s primary focus
    had been its Internet access business. In 2006, due in part to
    the growth of online advertising, AOL shifted its focus to its
    advertising business and began offering many of its services for
    free. Consequently, AOL’s focus is on growing its Global
    Web Services business, while managing costs in this business as
    well as managing its subscriber base and costs in its Access
    Services business. In addition, AOL has begun separating its
    Access Services and Global Web



    
    1



Table of Contents




    Services businesses, which should provide them with greater
    operational focus and increase the strategic options available
    for each business.


 



    Global
    Web Services


 


    AOL’s Global Web Services business is comprised of
    Platform-A and the Publishing business group, which develops and
    operates the AOL Network (defined more fully below).


 



    Platform-A


 


    In support of its transformation into a primarily
    advertising-supported web services business, AOL has formed a
    business group within AOL called
    Platform-A,
    which includes advertising sales activities, the Third Party
    Network advertising business, and advertising-serving platforms.
    Platform-A offers advertisers access to targeting and
    measurement tools that will enable AOL to optimize advertising
    inventory across the Third Party Network and the AOL Network.


 


    AOL offers advertisers a range of advertising services,
    including customized programs, premier placement of advertising,
    text and banner advertising, mobile advertising, video
    advertising, rich media advertising, sponsorship of content
    offerings for designated time periods, local and classified
    advertising, contextual and behavioral targeting opportunities,
    search engine management and lead generation services. Online
    advertising arrangements generally involve payments by
    advertisers on either a fixed-fee basis or on a
    pay-for-performance basis, where the advertiser pays based on
    the “click” or customer action resulting from the
    advertisement.


 


    Advertising services on the Third Party Network are primarily
    provided by Advertising.com, Inc. (“Advertising.com”),
    TACODA, Inc. (“TACODA”) and Quigo Technologies, Inc.
    (“Quigo”), each a wholly owned subsidiary of AOL. To
    connect advertisers with online advertising inventory,
    AOL’s
    Platform-A
    business group purchases this inventory from publishers of the
    Third Party Network websites and uses proprietary optimization
    technology to best match advertisers with available inventory.


 


    AOL has expanded its online advertising business through several
    acquisitions over the past two years. These acquisitions include
    Lightningcast, Inc., a video ad-serving company, Third Screen
    Media, Inc. (“TSM”), a mobile advertising network and
    mobile ad-serving management platform provider, ADTECH AG
    (“ADTECH”), an international online ad-serving
    company, TACODA, an online behavioral targeting advertising
    network, and Quigo, a site and content-targeting advertising
    company. In addition, on February 5, 2008, AOL announced
    that it acquired Perfiliate Limited (doing business as buy.at),
    which provides advertisers and publishers a platform for
    e-commerce
    marketing programs.


 



    Publishing


 


    AOL’s Global Web Services business also includes the
    products and programming functions associated with the AOL
    Network. The AOL Network consists of a variety of websites,
    related applications and services, including those accessed via
    the AOL and low-cost Internet access services. Specifically, the
    AOL Network includes owned and operated websites, applications
    and services such as AOL.com, international versions of
    the AOL portal,
    e-mail, AIM,
    MapQuest, Moviefone, ICQ and Truveo (a video search engine). The
    AOL Network also includes TMZ.com, a joint venture with
    Telepictures Productions, Inc. (a subsidiary of Warner Bros.
    Entertainment Inc.), as well as other
    co-branded
    websites owned by third parties for which certain criteria have
    been met, including that the Internet traffic has been assigned
    to AOL.


 


    AOL’s audience includes AOL subscribers and other Internet
    consumers, including former AOL subscribers, who visit the AOL
    Network. AOL seeks to attract and engage Internet consumers on
    the AOL Network by offering compelling and differentiated free
    programming, products and services. AOL has recently introduced,
    and plans to continue to introduce, several new or enhanced
    products and services, as well as several programming and
    product improvements aimed at attracting and engaging Internet
    consumers.


 


    A part of AOL’s strategy is to maintain and expand
    relationships with current and former AOL subscribers and to
    increase their activity, whether or not they continue to
    purchase the
    dial-up
    Internet access subscription service. Another component of this
    strategy is to permit the use of most of AOL’s services,
    including the AOL client



    
    2



Table of Contents




    software and AOL
    e-mail,
    without charge. As a result, as long as an individual has a
    means to connect to the Internet, that person is able to access
    and use most of the AOL services for free.


 


    AOL distributes its free and paid products and services through
    a variety of methods, including relationships with computer
    manufacturers, and through search engine marketing and search
    engine optimization. In an effort to reach a more fragmented
    audience, AOL is creating versions of certain of its products
    and services for consumer distribution on the Internet to
    generate activity on the AOL Network. Additionally, AOL seeks to
    provide technology to third parties that allows them to
    incorporate AOL’s content and services into their own
    websites and to enhance AOL’s products. AOL also offers
    paid services to AOL members and to Internet users generally,
    including storage and online safety and security products.


 



    International


 


    AOL is also expanding its Global Web Services business
    internationally. Platform-A conducts activities in Europe
    through AOL’s subsidiaries, Advertising.com and ADTECH. In
    2007, AOL launched new or refreshed portals in India and in
    eleven countries in Europe. In September 2007, AOL announced
    that it signed an agreement with Hewlett-Packard to offer
    co-branded, localized versions of the AOL portal, toolbar and
    search services pre-loaded on computers sold in various
    countries. By the end of 2008, AOL expects to serve over 30
    countries. Internationally, the AOL Network also includes
    applications and services such as ICQ, MapQuest, Truveo and
    Winamp, and AOL is working to create international versions of
    other products and services. AOL also conducts other activities
    internationally, including research and development and customer
    and corporate support services in India and research and
    development in China.


 


    In Europe, AOL has transitioned from a primarily
    subscription-based Internet access business to an
    advertising-supported web services business. During 2006, AOL
    sold its French and U.K. Internet access businesses to Neuf
    Cegetel S.A. and The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC, respectively.
    In February 2007, AOL completed the sale of its German Internet
    access business to Telecom Italia S.p.A. For further information
    regarding this sale, see “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Recent Developments.” In connection
    with the sales of the European Internet access businesses, AOL
    entered into separate agreements with the purchasers to provide
    ongoing web services, including content,
    e-mail and
    other online tools and services, to the AOL subscribers acquired
    by the purchasers as well as to their existing subscribers.


 



    Access
    Services


 


    Historically, AOL’s primary product offering has been an
    online subscription service that includes
    dial-up
    Internet access for a monthly fee. In 2007, this subscription
    service continued to generate the majority of AOL’s
    revenues. As of December 31, 2007, AOL had 9.3 million
    AOL brand Internet access subscribers in the U.S., which does
    not include registrations for the free AOL service. The primary
    price plans offered by AOL are $25.90 and $9.99 per month, which
    provide varying levels of Internet access service, storage,
    tools and services. In addition, AOL subsidiaries continue to
    offer the CompuServe and Netscape Internet access services.


 



    Google
    Alliance


 


    AOL also earns revenues through its relationship with Google
    Inc. (“Google”) under which Google sells certain
    advertising that appears on the AOL Network and shares the
    resulting revenues with AOL. On April 13, 2006, AOL, Google
    and Time Warner completed the issuance to Google of a 5%
    indirect equity interest in AOL in exchange for $1 billion
    in cash, having entered into agreements in March 2006 that
    expanded their strategic alliance. Under the alliance, Google
    continues to provide search services to, as well as a greater
    share of revenues generated through searches conducted on, the
    AOL Network. Google agreed, among other things, to provide AOL
    the use of a white-labeled, modified version of its search
    advertising platform to enable AOL to sell search and
    contextually-targeted text based advertising directly to certain
    advertisers on AOL-owned properties, to provide AOL with
    marketing credits for promotion of AOL’s properties on
    Google’s network and other promotional opportunities for
    AOL content, to collaborate in video search and promotion of
    AOL’s video destination, and to enable Google and AIM
    instant messaging users to communicate with each other. As part
    of the April 2006 transaction, Google also received certain
    registration rights relating to its equity interest in AOL. See



    
    3



Table of Contents




    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition — Overview”
    for additional details.


 



    Technologies


 


    AOL employs a multiple vendor strategy in designing, structuring
    and operating the network services utilized in its businesses.
    AOL enters into multi-year data technology services agreements
    to support AOL’s businesses. In connection with those
    agreements, AOL may commit to purchase certain minimum levels of
    services
    and/or pay a
    fixed cost for services. AOL expects to continue to review its
    services arrangements in order to align its capabilities with
    market conditions and to manage costs.


 


    AOL’s advertising technology systems are designed and
    managed to maintain availability and performance. AOL’s
    advertising businesses use a combination of in-house and
    third-party technologies to deliver advertisements across
    multiple networks and formats including text, banners, rich
    media, video and mobile. Technology services provided by
    DoubleClick Inc. (“DoubleClick”) are currently used by
    AOL’s advertising businesses to manage the delivery of
    display advertising across the AOL Network. AOL’s
    advertising businesses utilize delivery systems that determine
    the most effective and profitable advertisements to deliver on
    behalf of advertisers and publishers. This is achieved through
    the targeting of advertisements based on a variety of factors,
    including audience segmentation, contextual relevance, content
    matching, behavioral targeting and other related factors.
    AOL’s businesses’ technology systems also feature
    automated tools that streamline its sales operations, including
    the setup and management of advertising campaigns.


 


    AOLnet, an Internet protocol (IP) network of third-party network
    service providers, is used for the AOL Internet access service,
    certain low-cost Internet access services in North America, and
    other subscriber services, in addition to being used by outside
    parties.


 


    AOL also utilizes the AOL Transit Data Network
    (“ATDN”), the domestic and international network that
    connects AOL and CompuServe 2000 customers to the Internet. The
    ATDN also functions as the conduit between much of Time
    Warner’s content and the Internet, linking together various
    facilities throughout the world, with its greatest capacity in
    the U.S. and Europe. The ATDN Internet backbone is built
    from high-end routers and high-bandwidth circuits purchased
    primarily under long-term agreements from third-party carriers.


 


    Improving and maintaining AOLnet and the ATDN involves
    substantial costs in telecommunications equipment and services.
    In addition to making cash purchases of telecommunications
    equipment, AOL also finances some of these purchases through
    leases.


 



    Marketing


 


    To support its goals of attracting and engaging Internet
    consumers with its interactive products and services, growing
    the audience of the AOL Network, and developing and
    differentiating its family of brands, AOL markets its brands,
    products and services through an array of programs and media,
    including search engine marketing, web advertising and alternate
    media. Additionally, through multi-year bundling agreements,
    AOL’s products and services are installed on several
    different brands of personal computers.


 



    Competition


 


    In its Internet access business, AOL competes with other
    Internet access providers, especially broadband access
    providers. With respect to advertising generated on the AOL
    Network, AOL competes for the time and attention of consumers
    with a wide range of Internet companies, such as Yahoo! Inc.
    (“Yahoo!”), Google, Microsoft Corporation’s
    (“Microsoft”) MSN, social networking sites such as Fox
    Interactive Media, Inc.’s MySpace (“MySpace”) and
    Facebook, Inc. (“Facebook”), and traditional media
    companies, which are increasingly offering their own Internet
    products and services. The competition AOL’s advertising
    businesses face could intensify when Google’s acquisition
    of DoubleClick is completed and if Microsoft’s proposed
    acquisition of Yahoo! or other similar consolidations occur. The
    Internet is dynamic and rapidly evolving, and new and popular
    competitors, such as social networking sites, frequently emerge.



    
    4



Table of Contents




    AOL’s Platform-A business group competes with other
    aggregators of third-party advertising inventory and other
    companies offering competing advertising products, technology
    and services, as well as, increasingly, aggregators of such
    advertising products, technology and services. Competitors
    include such companies as WPP Group plc (24/7 Real Media),
    ValueClick, Inc., Google, Yahoo! and MSN. Competition among
    these companies is intensifying and may lead to continuing
    increases in costs to acquire advertising inventory from third
    parties and continuing decreases in prices for advertising
    inventory. In addition, competition generally may cause AOL to
    incur unanticipated costs associated with research and product
    development.


 


    Following the sales of its Internet access businesses, AOL
    Europe’s primary competitors are global enterprises such as
    Google, MSN and Yahoo!, new entrants such as Facebook, MySpace
    and other social networking sites and a large number of local
    enterprises. As AOL expands internationally, it will become
    increasingly subject to intense competition from global and
    local competitors.


 



    CABLE


 


    The Company’s cable business, Time Warner Cable Inc.
    (together with its subsidiaries, “TWC”), is the
    second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically
    advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five
    geographic areas — New York state (including New York
    City), the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California (including Los
    Angeles) and Texas. As of December 31, 2007, TWC served
    approximately 14.6 million customers who subscribed to one
    or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services,
    representing approximately 32.1 million revenue generating
    units, which reflects the total of all TWC basic video, digital
    video, high-speed data and voice subscribers. In addition to its
    video, high-speed data and voice services, TWC sells advertising
    time to a variety of national, regional and local businesses.


 


    On July 31, 2006, Time Warner NY Cable LLC (“TW
    NY”), a subsidiary of TWC, and Comcast Corporation
    (together with its subsidiaries, “Comcast”) completed
    their respective acquisitions of assets comprising in the
    aggregate substantially all of the cable assets of Adelphia
    Communications Corporation (“Adelphia”) (the
    “Adelphia Acquisition”). Immediately prior to the
    Adelphia Acquisition, TWC and Time Warner Entertainment Company,
    L.P. (“TWE”), a subsidiary of TWC, redeemed
    Comcast’s interests in TWC and TWE, respectively. In
    addition, immediately after the Adelphia Acquisition, TW NY
    exchanged certain cable systems with Comcast. On
    February 13, 2007, Adelphia’s Chapter 11
    reorganization plan became effective and, under applicable
    securities law regulations and provisions of the
    U.S. bankruptcy code, TWC became a public company subject
    to the requirements of the Exchange Act. Under the terms of the
    reorganization plan, during 2007, substantially all of the
    shares of TWC Class A Common Stock that Adelphia received
    as part of the payment for the systems TW NY acquired in July
    2006 were distributed to Adelphia’s creditors. On
    March 1, 2007, TWC’s Class A Common Stock began
    trading on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under
    the symbol “TWC.”


 


    Time Warner owns approximately 84% of TWC’s common stock
    (including approximately 83% of the outstanding TWC Class A
    Common Stock and all outstanding shares of TWC Class B
    Common Stock), and also owns an indirect 12.43% non-voting
    equity interest in TW NY. Time Warner is initiating discussions
    with TWC’s management and its board of directors regarding
    Time Warner’s ownership of TWC.


 


    Effective January 1, 2007, TWC began consolidating the
    results of certain cable systems located in Kansas City,
    southwest Texas and New Mexico (the “Kansas City
    Pool”) upon the distribution of the assets of Texas and
    Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P. (“TKCCP”) to TWC and
    Comcast. For additional information with respect to the
    distribution of the assets of TKCCP to its partners on
    January 1, 2007, see “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Recent Developments.”


 



    Products
    and Services


 


    TWC offers video, high-speed data and voice services over its
    broadband cable systems. TWC markets its services separately and
    as “bundled” packages of multiple services and
    features. Historically, TWC has focused primarily on residential
    customers, while also selling video, high-speed data and
    commercial networking and transport services to commercial
    customers. Recently, TWC has begun selling voice services to
    small- and medium-sized businesses as part of an increased focus
    on its commercial business. TWC customers who subscribe to a
    bundle receive a discount from the price of buying the services
    separately as well as the convenience of a single



    
    5



Table of Contents




    monthly bill. Increasingly, TWC’s customers subscribe to
    more than one primary service. As of December 31, 2007, 48%
    of TWC’s customers subscribed to two or more of its primary
    services, including 16% of its customers who subscribed to all
    three primary services.


 



    Residential
    Video Services


 


    Programming Tiers.  TWC offers three main
    levels or “tiers” of video programming –
    Basic Service Tier (“BST”), Expanded Basic Service
    Tier (“CPST”) and Digital Basic Service Tier
    (“DBT”). BST generally includes broadcast television
    signals, satellite-delivered broadcast networks and
    superstations, local origination channels, and public access,
    educational and government channels. CPST enables BST
    subscribers to add national, regional and local cable news,
    entertainment and other specialty networks, such as CNN,
    A&E, ESPN, CNBC and MTV. In certain areas, BST and CPST
    also include proprietary local programming devoted to the
    communities TWC serves, including
    24-hour
    local news channels in a number of cities. Together, BST and
    CPST provide customers with approximately 70 channels. DBT
    offers subscribers up to 50 additional cable networks, including
    spin-off and successor networks to national cable services, news
    networks and niche programming services, such as Discovery Home
    and MTV2. Generally, subscribers to CPST and DBT can purchase
    thematically-linked programming tiers, including movies, sports
    and Spanish language tiers, and subscribers to any tier of video
    programming can purchase premium services, such as HBO and
    Showtime.


 


    TWC’s video subscribers pay a fixed monthly fee based on
    the video programming tier they receive. Subscribers to
    specialized tiers and premium services are charged an additional
    monthly fee, with discounts generally available for the purchase
    of packages of more than one such service. The rates TWC can
    charge for its BST service and certain video equipment,
    including set-top boxes, are subject to regulation under federal
    law. See “Regulatory Matters — Cable System
    Regulation.”


 


    Transmission Technology. TWC’s customers may receive
    video service through analog transmissions, a combination of
    digital and analog transmissions or, in systems where TWC has
    fully deployed digital simulcast, digital transmissions only.
    Customers who receive any level of video service via digital
    transmissions are referred to as “digital video
    subscribers.” As of December 31, 2007, 50% of
    TWC’s homes passed, or approximately 13.3 million
    customers, were basic video subscribers and of those,
    approximately 8.0 million (or 61%) were digital video
    subscribers.


 


    Digital video subscribers using a TWC-provided set-top box
    generally have access to an interactive program guide, Video on
    Demand (“VOD”), which is discussed below, music
    channels and seasonal sports packages. Digital video subscribers
    who receive premium services generally also receive
    “multiplex” versions of these services.


 


    On-Demand Services. On-Demand services are available
    to digital video subscribers using a set-top box provided by
    TWC. Available On-Demand services include a wide selection of
    featured movies and special events, for which separate per-use
    fees are generally charged, and free access to selected movies,
    programs and program excerpts from cable networks, music videos,
    local programming and other content. In addition, premium
    service (e.g., HBO) subscribers receiving services via a digital
    set-top box provided by TWC generally have access to the premium
    service’s On-Demand content without additional fees.


 


    Enhanced TV Services. TWC is expanding the use of
    VOD technology to introduce additional enhancements to the video
    experience. For instance, TWC has launched Start Over, which
    allows digital video subscribers using a set-top box provided by
    TWC to restart select “in progress” programs airing on
    participating cable and broadcast networks directly from the
    relevant channel, without the ability to fast-forward through
    commercials. Start Over was available to over one million
    digital video subscribers as of December 31, 2007, and TWC
    plans to continue to roll out Start Over in 2008. TWC has begun
    rolling out other Enhanced TV features such as Look Back, which
    utilizes the Start Over technology to allow viewing of
    previously aired programs, and Quick Clips, which allows
    customers to view short-form content tied to the cable or
    broadcast network then being watched. TWC is also working to
    make available Catch Up, which will allow customers to view
    previously aired programs they have missed.


 


    DVRs. Set-top boxes equipped with digital video
    recorders (“DVRs”), among other things, enable
    customers to pause
    and/or
    rewind “live” television programs and record programs
    on a hard drive built into the set-top box.



    
    6



Table of Contents




    Subscribers pay an additional monthly fee for TWC’s DVR
    service. As of December 31, 2007, 42%, or approximately
    3.4 million, of TWC’s digital video subscribers also
    subscribed to its DVR service.


 


    HD Television. In its more advanced divisions, TWC
    offers between 30 and 40 channels of high-definition
    (“HD”) television, or HDTV, and expects to add
    additional programming during 2008. In most divisions, HD
    simulcasts are provided at no additional charge, and additional
    charges apply only for HD channels that do not have standard
    definition counterparts. In addition to its linear HD channels,
    TWC also offers VOD programming in HD.


 



    Residential
    High-speed Data Services


 


    As of December 31, 2007, TWC offered residential high-speed
    data services to nearly all of its homes passed and
    approximately 7.6 million customers, or 29% of estimated
    high-speed data service-ready homes, subscribed to a residential
    high-speed data service. High-speed data subscribers connect to
    TWC’s cable systems using a cable modem, and pay a flat
    monthly fee based on the level of service received. In virtually
    all of its systems, TWC offers four tiers of its Road Runner
    high-speed data service: Turbo, Standard, Basic and Lite. The
    tiers offer different speeds at different monthly fees.


 


    TWC’s Road Runner service provides communication tools and
    personalized services, including
    e-mail,
    PC security, parental controls, news groups and online
    radio, without any additional charge. The Road Runner portal
    provides access to content and media from local, national and
    international providers and topic-specific channels, including
    games, news, sports, autos, kids, music, movie listings and
    shopping sites.


 


    High-speed data services are delivered through TWC’s hybrid
    fiber coaxial (“HFC”) network, regional fiber networks
    that are either owned or leased from third parties and through
    backbone networks that provide connectivity to the Internet and
    are operated by third parties. TWC pays fees for leased circuits
    based on the amount of capacity available to TWC and pays for
    Internet connectivity based on the amount of data traffic
    received from and sent over the provider’s backbone
    network. TWC also has entered into a number of
    “settlement-free peering” arrangements with affiliated
    and third-party networks that allow TWC to exchange traffic with
    such networks without a fee.


 


    In addition to Road Runner, most of TWC’s cable systems
    provide their high-speed data subscribers with access to the
    services of certain other on-line providers, including Earthlink.


 



    Residential
    Voice Services


 


    Digital Phone. TWC has offered its Digital Phone
    service broadly since 2004. Under TWC’s primary calling
    plan, its customers receive unlimited local, in-state and U.S.,
    Canada and Puerto Rico calling and a number of calling features
    for a fixed monthly fee. TWC also offers additional calling
    plans with a variety of calling options that are designed to
    meet customers’ particular usage patterns, including a
    local-only calling plan, an unlimited in-state calling plan and
    an international calling plan.


 


    As of December 31, 2007, approximately 2.9 million
    customers, or 12% of estimated voice service-ready homes passed,
    subscribed to Digital Phone. Since no comparable Internet
    protocol (“IP”)-based telephony service was available
    in the systems acquired in and retained after the 2006
    transactions with Adelphia and Comcast (the “Acquired
    Systems”) at the time of the closing of the transactions,
    the continued introduction of Digital Phone in the Acquired
    Systems, separately and as part of a bundle, was a high priority
    for TWC during 2007. TWC started selling Digital Phone in the
    Acquired Systems in 2007 and, as of December 31, 2007, the
    launch of Digital Phone to residential customers in the Acquired
    Systems was substantially complete.


 


    Digital Phone is delivered over the same system facilities used
    by TWC to provide video and high-speed data services. Under a
    multi-year agreement between TWC and Sprint Nextel Corporation
    (“Sprint”), Sprint assists TWC in providing Digital
    Phone service by routing voice traffic to and from destinations
    outside of TWC’s network via the public switched telephone
    network, delivering Enhanced 911 service and assisting in local
    number portability and long-distance traffic carriage. Unlike
    Internet phone providers, such as Vonage Holdings Corp.
    (“Vonage”), TWC does not utilize the public Internet
    to transport telephone calls.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    Commercial
    Services


 


    TWC has provided video and high-speed data services to
    businesses for over a decade and, in 2007, it introduced a
    commercial Digital Phone service, Business Class Phone,
    geared to small- and medium-sized businesses. The introduction
    of Business Class Phone enables TWC to offer its commercial
    customers a bundle of video, high-speed data and voice services
    and to compete against bundled services from its competitors.


 


    Video Services. TWC offers business customers a full
    range of video programming tiers marketed under the “Time
    Warner Cable Business Class” brand. Packages are designed
    to meet the demands of a business environment by offering a wide
    variety of video services that enable businesses to entertain
    customers or stay abreast of news, weather and financial
    information.


 


    High-speed Data Services. TWC offers business
    customers a variety of high-speed data services, including
    Internet access, website hosting and managed security. These
    services are offered to a broad range of businesses and are also
    marketed under the “Time Warner Cable Business Class”
    brand. Business subscribers pay a flat monthly fee, which
    differs from the fee paid by residential subscribers, based on
    the level of service received. As of December 31, 2007, TWC
    had 280,000 commercial high-speed data subscribers. In addition,
    TWC provides its high-speed data services to other cable
    operators for a fee, who in turn provide high-speed data
    services to their customers.


 


    Voice Services. In addition to TWC’s existing
    commercial video and high-speed data businesses, TWC recently
    introduced Business Class Phone, a business-grade phone
    service geared to small- and medium-sized businesses. TWC rolled
    out Business Class Phone in the majority of its systems
    during 2007 and expects to complete the roll-out of Business
    Class Phone in the remainder of its systems during 2008.


 


    Commercial Networking and Transport Services. TWC
    provides dedicated transmission capacity on its network to
    customers that desire high-bandwidth connections between
    locations. TWC also offers point-to-point circuits to wireless
    telephone providers and other carriers and wholesale customers.


 



    Advertising


 


    TWC also generates revenues by selling advertising time to a
    variety of national, regional and local businesses. As part of
    the agreements under which it acquires video programming, TWC
    generally receives an allocation of scheduled advertising time
    in such programming, generally two or three minutes per hour,
    into which its systems can insert commercials. The clustering of
    TWC’s systems expands the number of viewers that TWC
    reaches within a local designated market area, which helps its
    local advertising sales business to compete more effectively
    with broadcast and other media. In addition, TWC has a strong
    presence in the country’s two largest advertising market
    areas, New York City and Los Angeles. TWC is also exploring
    various means by which it could utilize its advanced services,
    such as VOD and interactive TV, to increase advertising revenues.


 



    Technology


 


    Cable Systems. TWC transmits its video, high-speed
    data and voice signals on an HFC network. As of
    December 31, 2007, according to TWC’s estimates,
    approximately 98% of all homes passed by TWC’s cable
    systems were served by plant that had been upgraded to provide
    at least 750 megahertz of capacity. TWC believes that its
    network architecture is sufficiently flexible and extensible to
    support its current requirements. However, in order for TWC to
    continue to innovate and deliver new services to its customers,
    as well as meet its competitive needs, TWC anticipates that it
    will need to use more efficiently the bandwidth available to its
    systems over the next few years. TWC believes that this can be
    achieved largely without costly upgrades. For example, to
    accommodate increasing numbers of HDTV channels and other
    demands for greater capacity in its network, TWC is deploying a
    technology known as switched digital video (“SDV”). By
    using SDV, only those channels that are being watched within a
    given grouping of households are transmitted to those
    households. Since it is generally the case that not all channels
    are being watched at all times by a given group of households,
    this frees up capacity that can then be made available for other
    uses.


 


    Set-top Boxes. TWC’s digital video subscribers
    must have either a digital set-top box or a “digital
    cable-ready” television or similar device equipped with a
    CableCARDtm.
    However, a “digital cable-ready” television or



    
    8



Table of Contents




    similar device equipped with a CableCARD cannot receive certain
    digital signals and signals for premium programming that are
    necessary to receive TWC’s two-way video services, such as
    VOD and the interactive program guide. In order to receive
    TWC’s two-way video services, customers generally must have
    a digital set-top box provided by TWC. TWC purchases set-top
    boxes and CableCARDs from a limited number of suppliers and
    leases these devices to subscribers at monthly rates.


 



    Video
    Programming


 


    TWC carries local broadcast stations pursuant to either the
    Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) “must
    carry” rules or a written retransmission consent agreement
    with the relevant station owner. For more information, see
    “Regulatory Matters — Cable System
    Regulation — Communications Act and FCC
    Regulation — Carriage of Broadcast Television Stations
    and Other Programming Regulation.” TWC currently has
    multi-year transmission consent agreements in place with most of
    the retransmission consent stations it carries. Cable networks
    and premium services are carried pursuant to written affiliation
    agreements, usually with a term of between three and seven
    years. TWC generally pays a fixed monthly per-subscriber fee for
    such services. Payments to the providers of some premium
    services may be based on a percentage of TWC’s gross
    receipts from subscriptions to the service. Generally, TWC
    obtains rights to carry VOD movies and
    Pay-Per-View
    events through iN Demand L.L.C., a company in which TWC holds a
    minority interest. In some instances, TWC contracts directly
    with film studios for VOD carriage rights for movies. Such VOD
    content is generally provided to TWC under revenue-sharing
    arrangements.


 



    Wireless
    Joint Venture


 


    TWC is a participant in a wireless spectrum joint venture with
    several other cable companies, which, in November 2006, was
    awarded certain advanced wireless spectrum licenses in an FCC
    auction.


 



    Competition


 


    TWC faces intense competition from a variety of alternative
    information and entertainment delivery sources, principally from
    direct-to-home satellite video providers and certain telephone
    companies, each of which offers a broad range of services
    through increasingly varied technologies that provide features
    and functions comparable to those provided by TWC. The services
    are also offered in bundles of video, high-speed data and voice
    services similar to TWC’s and, in certain cases, these
    offerings include wireless services. The availability of these
    bundled service offerings has intensified competition. In
    addition, technological advances will likely increase the number
    of alternatives available to TWC’s customers from other
    providers and intensify the competitive environment. See
    “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Cable
    Competition.”


 



    Principal
    Competitors


 


    Direct Broadcast Satellite. TWC’s video
    services face competition from direct broadcast satellite
    (“DBS”) services, such as DISH Network Corporation
    (“Dish Network”) and DirecTV Group Inc.
    (“DirecTV”). Dish Network and DirecTV offer
    satellite-delivered pre-packaged programming services that can
    be received by relatively small and inexpensive receiving
    dishes. These providers offer aggressive promotional pricing,
    exclusive programming (e.g., “NFL Sunday Ticket,”
    which is available only to DirecTV) and video services that are
    comparable in many respects to TWC’s analog and digital
    video services, including TWC’s DVR service and some of its
    interactive programming features. These providers are also
    working to increase the number of HDTV channels they offer in
    order to differentiate their service from services offered by
    cable operators. In some areas, incumbent local telephone
    companies and DBS operators have entered into co-marketing
    arrangements that allow both parties to offer synthetic bundles
    (i.e., video service provided principally by the DBS operator,
    and digital subscriber line (“DSL”), traditional phone
    service and, in some cases, wireless service provided by the
    telephone company).


 


    Local Telephone Companies. TWC’s high-speed
    data and Digital Phone services face competition from the DSL,
    wireless broadband and traditional and wireless phone offerings
    of incumbent local telephone companies, especially AT&T
    Inc. (“AT&T”) and Verizon Communications Inc.
    (“Verizon”), and also some smaller local telephone
    companies. AT&T and Verizon have undertaken fiber optic
    upgrades of their networks, and the



    
    9



Table of Contents




    technologies they are using, such as fiber-to-the-node
    (“FTTN”) and fiber-to-the-home (“FTTH”), are
    capable of carrying two-way video, high-speed data with
    substantial bandwidth and
    IP-based
    telephony services, each of which is similar to the
    corresponding services offered by TWC. In addition, these
    telephone companies can market and sell service bundles of
    video, high-speed data and voice services plus wireless services
    provided by the telephone companies’ owned or affiliated
    companies.


 


    Cable Overbuilds. TWC operates its cable systems
    under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local
    authorities. The existence of more than one cable system
    operating in the same territory is referred to as an
    “overbuild.” In some of TWC’s operating areas,
    other operators have overbuilt TWC systems
    and/or offer
    video, data and voice services in competition with TWC.


 


    Satellite Master Antenna Television
    (“SMATV”). Additional competition comes from
    private cable television systems servicing condominiums,
    apartment complexes and certain other multiple dwelling units,
    often on an exclusive basis, with local broadcast signals and
    many of the same satellite-delivered program services offered by
    franchised cable systems. Some SMATV operators now offer voice
    and high-speed data services as well.


 



    Other
    Competition and Competitive Factors


 


    In addition to competing with the video, high-speed data and
    voice services offered by DBS providers, local incumbent
    telephone companies, cable overbuilders and SMATVs, each of
    TWC’s services also faces competition from other companies
    that provide services on a stand-alone basis.


 


    Video Competition. TWC’s video services face
    competition on a stand-alone basis from a number of different
    sources, including local television broadcast stations that
    provide free over-the-air programming that can be received using
    an antenna and a television set; local television broadcasters,
    which in selected markets sell digital subscription services;
    and video programming delivered over broadband Internet
    connections. TWC’s VOD services compete with online movie
    and other services, which are delivered over broadband Internet
    connections, online order services with mail delivery and with
    video stores and home video services.


 


    “Online” Competition. TWC’s
    high-speed data services face or may face competition from a
    variety of companies that offer other forms of online services,
    including low cost
    dial-up
    services over ordinary telephone lines, and developing
    technologies, such as Internet service via power lines,
    satellite and various wireless services (e.g., Wi-Fi), including
    those of local municipalities.


 


    Digital Phone Competition. TWC’s Digital Phone
    service also competes with wireless phone providers and national
    providers of
    IP-based
    telephony products such as Vonage. The increase in the number of
    different technologies capable of carrying voice services has
    intensified the competitive environment in which TWC operates
    its Digital Phone service.


 


    Commercial Competition. TWC’s commercial video,
    high-speed data, voice and networking and transport services
    face competition from local incumbent telephone companies,
    especially AT&T and Verizon, as well as from a variety of
    other national and regional business services competitors.


 



    FILMED
    ENTERTAINMENT


 


    The Company’s Filmed Entertainment businesses produce and
    distribute theatrical motion pictures, television shows,
    animation and other programming, distribute home video product,
    and license rights to the Company’s feature films,
    television programming and characters. All of the foregoing
    businesses are principally conducted by various subsidiaries and
    affiliates of Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., known
    collectively as the Warner Bros. Entertainment Group
    (“Warner Bros.”), and New Line Cinema Corporation
    (“New Line”). The Company is exploring increased
    operational efficiencies within the Filmed Entertainment
    segment, including the potential for a closer strategic
    integration of the New Line business with Warner Bros.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Feature
    Films


 



    Warner
    Bros.


 


    Warner Bros. produces feature films both wholly on its own and
    under co-financing arrangements with others, and also
    distributes its films and completed films produced by others.
    The terms of Warner Bros.’ agreements with independent
    producers and other entities are separately negotiated and vary
    depending upon the production, the amount and type of financing
    by Warner Bros., the media and territories covered, the
    distribution term and other factors. Warner Bros.’ feature
    films are produced under both the Warner Bros. Pictures and
    Castle Rock banners, and also by Warner Independent Pictures
    (“WIP”).


 


    Warner Bros.’ strategy focuses on offering a diverse slate
    of films with a mix of genres, talent and budgets that includes
    several “event” movies per year. In response to the
    high cost of producing theatrical films, Warner Bros. has
    entered into certain film co-financing arrangements with other
    companies, decreasing its financial risk while in most cases
    retaining substantially all worldwide distribution rights.
    During 2007, Warner Bros. and WIP released a total of 28
    original motion pictures for theatrical exhibition, including
    300, Ocean’s Thirteen, Harry Potter and
    the Order of the Phoenix and I Am Legend. Of the
    total 2007 releases, eight were wholly financed by Warner Bros.
    and 20 were financed with or by others.


 


    Warner Bros. has co-financing arrangements with Village Roadshow
    Pictures and Legendary Pictures, LLC. Additionally, Warner Bros.
    has an exclusive distribution arrangement with Alcon
    Entertainment for distribution of all of Alcon’s motion
    pictures in domestic and certain international territories. In
    2006, Warner Bros. also entered into an exclusive multi-year
    distribution agreement with Dark Castle Holdings, LLC, under
    which Warner Bros. will distribute 15 Dark Castle feature films
    in the U.S. and, generally, in all international
    territories. Each of these feature films will be 100% financed
    by Dark Castle.


 


    WIP produces or acquires smaller budget and alternative films
    for domestic
    and/or
    worldwide release. WIP released five films during 2007,
    including In the Valley of Elah.


 


    Warner Bros. distributes feature films for theatrical exhibition
    to more than 125 international territories. In 2007, Warner
    Bros. released internationally 19
    English-language
    motion pictures and 28
    local-language
    films that it either produced or acquired.


 


    After their theatrical exhibition, Warner Bros. licenses its
    newly produced films, as well as films from its library, for
    distribution on broadcast, cable, satellite and pay television
    channels both domestically and internationally, and, as further
    discussed below, it also distributes its films on DVD and in
    various digital formats.


 



    New
    Line Cinema


 


    Theatrical films are also produced and distributed by New Line,
    a leading independent producer and distributor of theatrical
    motion pictures. Included in its 13 films released during 2007
    were Hairspray, Rush Hour 3 and The Golden
    Compass. Like Warner Bros., New Line releases a diverse
    slate of films with an emphasis on building and leveraging
    franchises. As part of its strategy for reducing financial risk
    and dealing with the rising cost of film production, New Line
    typically pre-sells the international rights to its releases on
    a
    territory-by-territory
    basis, while still retaining a share of each film’s
    potential profitability in those foreign territories. New Line
    also has entered into a two-year co-financing transaction
    arranged by The Royal Bank of Scotland that began in February
    2007.


 


    Picturehouse, a theatrical distribution company formed in 2005
    and jointly owned by New Line and Home Box Office, Inc., is also
    a producer and distributor of independent films. This venture
    released eight films in 2007, including La Vie En Rose
    and The Orphanage.


 



    Home
    Entertainment


 


    Warner Home Video (“WHV”), a division of Warner Bros.
    Home Entertainment Inc. (“WBHE”), distributes for home
    video use DVDs containing filmed entertainment product produced
    or otherwise acquired by the Company’s various
    content-producing subsidiaries and divisions, including Warner
    Bros. Pictures, Warner Bros. Television, New Line, Home Box
    Office and Turner Broadcasting System. Significant WHV releases
    during 2007



    
    11



Table of Contents




    included 300, Ocean’s Thirteen and Harry
    Potter and the Order of the Phoenix. WHV produces and
    distributes DVDs from new content generated by the Company as
    well as from the Company’s extensive filmed entertainment
    library of thousands of feature films, television titles and
    animated titles. WHV also distributes other companies’
    product, including DVDs for BBC, National Geographic and
    national sports leagues in the U.S., and has similar
    distribution relationships with producers outside the U.S.


 


    WHV sells and licenses its product for resale in the
    U.S. and in major international territories to retailers
    and wholesalers through its own sales force, with warehousing
    and fulfillment handled by third parties. DVD product is
    replicated by third parties, with replication for the U.S.,
    Canada, Europe and Mexico provided for under a long-term
    contract. In some countries, WHV’s product is distributed
    through licensees. WHV distributes packaged media product in the
    standard-definition DVD format and, in 2007, it distributed
    product in both of the HD DVD and Blu-ray high-definition
    formats. In January 2008, WHV announced that, commencing in the
    second quarter of 2008, it would distribute its high-definition
    products exclusively in the Blu-ray high-definition format.


 


    Warner Premiere, a division of Warner Specialty Films Inc.
    established in 2006, develops and produces filmed entertainment
    that is distributed initially though DVD sales
    (“direct-to-video”) and short-form content that is
    distributed through online and wireless platforms. Warner
    Premiere released three direct-to-video titles in 2007.


 


    Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment (“WBIE”), a
    division of WBHE, licenses and produces interactive videogames
    for a variety of platforms based on Warner Bros.’ and DC
    Comics’ properties, as well as original game properties
    produced by it and its subsidiary, Monolith Productions Inc. In
    2007, WBIE expanded its business to include games publishing,
    utilizing the global supply chain infrastructure of WHV, and
    entered into games distribution agreements with Brash
    Entertainment, LLC, TT Games Limited (“TT Games”) and
    The Codemasters Software Company Limited. In 2007, WBIE
    distributed 23 game titles in North America, including Looney
    Tunes ACME Arsenal and its companion game Duck Amuck,
    Alvin and The Chipmunks and Dirt. In 2008, WBIE
    plans to release a number of new games and expand its game
    publishing operations into international territories.


 


    In December 2007, WBHE acquired TT Games, which includes
    Traveller’s Tales, one of the world’s largest
    independent game developers, and TT Games Publishing, the
    U.K.-based game publisher of the Lego Star Wars and
    BIONICLE Heroes videogames.


 



    Television


 


    Warner Bros. Television Group (“WBTVG”) is one of the
    world’s leading suppliers of television programming,
    distributing programming in the U.S. as well as in more
    than 200 international territories and in more than
    45 languages. WBTVG both develops and produces new
    television series, made-for-television movies, reality-based
    entertainment shows and animation programs and also licenses
    programming from the Warner Bros. library for exhibition on
    media all over the world.


 


    WBTVG programming is primarily produced by Warner Bros.
    Television (“WBTV”), a division of WB Studio
    Enterprises Inc. that produces primetime dramatic and comedy
    programming for the major broadcast networks and for cable
    networks; Warner Horizon Television Inc. (“Warner
    Horizon”), which specializes in unscripted programming for
    broadcast networks as well as scripted and unscripted
    programming for cable networks; and Telepictures Productions
    Inc. (“Telepictures”), which specializes in
    reality-based and talk/variety series for the syndication and
    daytime markets. For the
    2007-08
    season, WBTV is producing, among others, Smallville and
    Gossip Girl for The CW Television Network (“The
    CW”) and Two and a Half Men, Without a Trace, Cold
    Case, The Big Bang Theory, Pushing Daisies and
    ER for other broadcast networks. WBTV also produces
    original series for cable networks, including The Closer
    and Nip/Tuck. Warner Horizon produces the primetime
    reality series The Bachelor. Telepictures produces
    first-run syndication staples such as Extra and the talk
    shows The Ellen DeGeneres Show and Tyra, as well
    as TMZ, a series based on the top entertainment website
    TMZ.com.


 


    Warner Bros. Animation Inc. (“WBAI”) is responsible
    for the creation, development and production of contemporary
    animated television programming and original made-for-DVD
    releases, including the popular Scooby Doo and Tom and
    Jerry series. WBAI also oversees the creative use of, and
    production of animated programming based on, classic animated
    characters from Warner Bros., including Looney Tunes, and
    from the Hanna-Barbera and DC Comics libraries.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Digital
    Media


 


    WBTVG’s online destination, TMZ.com, a joint venture
    with AOL, is the number-one entertainment news website in the
    U.S., according to comScore Media Metrix. In November 2007,
    WBTVG launched a second online destination, MomLogic.com,
    which also serves as the portal of an online advertising network
    targeting mothers. WBTVG plans to launch a third destination
    site featuring animated properties from the Looney Tunes,
    Hanna-Barbera and DC Comics libraries in the second quarter of
    2008. In 2007, WBTVG’s digital production venture, Studio
    2.0, which works with creative talent and advertisers to create
    original live action and animated short form programming for
    broadband and wireless devices, developed
    and/or
    produced more than two dozen new live action, short form
    programs for distribution in 2008.


 


    Many of WBTVG’s current on-air television series are
    available on demand via broadband and wireless streaming and
    downloading and cable VOD platforms under agreements entered
    into with the broadcast and cable networks exhibiting the
    series. Pursuant to those agreements, the networks have the
    right to offer each series episode on demand for a limited
    period of time after the episode airs and WBTVG retains the
    right to offer permanent downloads of current episodes during
    the same timeframe and, increasingly, WBTVG has the right to
    offer online streaming of current series episodes at the end of
    a broadcast year. Internationally, in 2007, WBTVG launched five
    Warner Bros. branded on-demand program channels: three in the
    U.K., one in France and one in Japan.


 


    Warner Bros. Digital Distribution (“WBDD”), a division
    of WBHE, enters into domestic and international licensing
    arrangements for distribution of Warner Bros.’ film and
    television programming through VOD
    and/or
    permanent download or electronic sell-through (“EST”)
    via online, cable and wireless services. WBDD has VOD and EST
    licenses with Apple Inc. for iTunes, Amazon.com, Inc. for Unbox,
    Microsoft Corporation for Xbox 360 and with Netflix, Inc. for
    movies via its subscription VOD service, as well as licenses
    with local online retailers in various international territories
    including Europe, Asia and Latin America. In 2007, WBDD
    commenced testing with Comcast and TWC in limited markets the
    release of films in VOD on the same date as their release on
    DVD. WBDD plans to expand this “day and date” release
    strategy for VOD in 2008 both domestically and internationally.
    WBDD has also worked with WHV to develop programs that make
    electronic copies of new release movies available to consumers
    who purchase DVDs, either by entering a code contained in the
    DVD packaging that allows consumers to download a file
    containing the film or by including an electronic copy of the
    film directly on the DVD that the consumer can upload. In 2007,
    electronic copies of movies were made available to purchasers of
    DVDs on four home video titles, and WBDD plans to expand this
    program in 2008.


 



    Other
    Entertainment Assets


 


    Warner Bros. Consumer Products Inc. licenses rights in both
    domestic and international markets to the names, likenesses,
    images, logos and other representations of characters and
    copyrighted material from the films and television series
    produced or distributed by Warner Bros., including the superhero
    characters of DC Comics, Hanna-Barbera characters, classic films
    and Looney Tunes.


 


    Warner Bros. and CBS Corporation (“CBS”) each
    have a 50% interest in The CW, a broadcast network launched at
    the beginning of the Fall 2006 broadcast season. For additional
    information, see “Networks,” below.


 


    Warner Bros. International Cinemas Inc. holds interests, either
    wholly owned or through joint ventures, in 88 multi-screen
    cinema complexes, with over 700 screens in Japan, Italy and
    the U.S.


 


    DC Comics, wholly owned by the Company, publishes a wide array
    of graphic novels and an average of over 80 comic book titles
    per month, featuring such popular characters as Superman,
    Batman, Wonder Woman and The Sandman. DC Comics also
    derives revenues from motion pictures, television, videogames
    and merchandise. The Company also owns E.C. Publications, Inc.,
    the publisher of MAD magazine.


 


    In September 2007, Warner Bros. entered into a long-term,
    multi-faceted strategic alliance with ALDAR Properties PJSC, an
    Abu Dhabi real estate development company, and Abu Dhabi Media
    Company, a newly established media company owned by the Abu
    Dhabi government, to develop certain entertainment related
    projects in Abu Dhabi. Some of the initial projects under the
    strategic alliance will include the creation of a theme park and
    resort hotel branded with Warner Bros. intellectual property,
    the development of jointly owned multiplex theatres,



    
    13



Table of Contents




    an agreement for the co-financing and distribution of
    interactive video games and a film co-financing and distribution
    arrangement.


 



    Competition


 


    The production and distribution of theatrical motion pictures,
    television and animation product and DVDs are highly competitive
    businesses, as each vies with the other, as well as with other
    forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including
    Internet streaming and downloading, websites providing social
    networking and user-generated content, interactive games and
    other online activities, for consumers’ attention.
    Furthermore, there is increased competition in the television
    industry evidenced by the increasing number and variety of
    broadcast networks and basic cable and pay television services
    now available. Despite this increasing variety of networks and
    services, access to primetime and syndicated television slots
    has actually tightened as networks and owned and operated
    stations increasingly source programming from content producers
    aligned with or owned by their parent companies. There is active
    competition among all production companies in these industries
    for the services of producers, directors, writers, actors and
    others and for the acquisition of literary properties. With
    respect to the distribution of television product, there is
    significant competition from independent distributors as well as
    major studios. Revenues for filmed entertainment product depend
    in part upon general economic conditions, but the competitive
    position of a producer or distributor is still greatly affected
    by the quality of, and public response to, the entertainment
    product it makes available to the marketplace.


 


    Warner Bros. also competes in its character merchandising and
    other licensing activities with other licensors of character,
    brand and celebrity names.


 



    NETWORKS


 


    The Company’s Networks business consists principally of
    domestic and international networks and pay television
    programming services. The networks owned by Turner Broadcasting
    System, Inc. (“Turner”) are collectively referred to
    herein as the “Turner Networks.” Pay television
    programming consists of the multi-channel HBO and Cinemax pay
    television programming services (collectively, the “Home
    Box Office Services”) operated by Home Box Office, Inc.
    (“Home Box Office”).


 


    The programming of the Turner Networks and the Home Box Office
    Services (collectively, the “Networks”) is distributed
    via cable, satellite and other distribution technologies.


 


    The Turner Networks generate revenues principally from the sale
    of advertising (other than Turner Classic Movies and Boomerang,
    which sell advertising only in certain European markets) and
    from the receipt of monthly subscriber fees paid by cable system
    operators, satellite distribution services, telephone companies,
    hotels and other customers (known as affiliates) that have
    contracted to receive and distribute such networks. The Home Box
    Office Services generate revenues principally from fees paid by
    affiliates for the delivery of the Home Box Office Services to
    subscribers, who are generally free to cancel their
    subscriptions at any time. Home Box Office’s agreements
    with its affiliates are typically long-term arrangements that
    provide for annual service fee increases and retail promotion
    activities and have fee arrangements that are generally related
    to the number of subscribers served by the affiliate. The Home
    Box Office Services and their affiliates engage in ongoing
    marketing and promotional activities to retain existing
    subscribers and acquire new subscribers. Home Box Office also
    derives revenues from its original films and series through the
    sale of DVDs, as well as from its licensing of original
    programming in syndication and to basic cable channels.


 


    Advertising revenues consist of consumer advertising, which is
    sold primarily on a national basis in the U.S. and on a
    pan-regional or
    local-language
    feed basis outside of the U.S. Advertising contracts
    generally have terms of one year or less. Outside of the U.S.,
    advertising is generally sold on a per-spot basis. Advertising
    revenues are generated from a wide variety of categories,
    including food and beverage, financial and business services,
    entertainment, tourism, pharmaceuticals and medical, and
    automotive. In the U.S., advertising revenues are a function of
    the size and demographics of the audience delivered, the
    “CPM,” which is the cost per thousand viewers
    delivered, and the number of units of time sold. Units sold and
    CPMs are influenced by the quantitative and qualitative
    characteristics of the audience of each network, as well as
    overall advertiser demand in the marketplace.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    Turner
    Networks


 



    Domestic
    Networks


 


    Turner’s entertainment networks include two general
    entertainment networks, TBS, which reached approximately
    97.2 million U.S. television households as reported by
    Nielsen Media Research (“U.S. television
    households”) as of December 2007; and TNT, which reached
    approximately 96.3 million U.S. television households
    as of December 2007; as well as Cartoon Network (including
    Adult Swim, its overnight block of contemporary animation
    aimed at adults), which reached approximately 95.5 million
    U.S. television households as of December 2007; truTV
    (formerly Court TV), which reached approximately
    90.7 million U.S. television households as of December
    2007; Turner Classic Movies, a commercial-free network
    presenting classic films; and Boomerang, an animation network
    featuring classic cartoons. High definition feeds of both TBS
    and TNT are available. Programming for these entertainment
    networks is derived, in part, from the Company’s film,
    made-for-television and animation libraries to which Turner or
    other divisions of the Company own the copyrights, sports
    programming and licensed programming, including network movie
    premieres and original and syndicated series. Effective
    January 1, 2008, Court TV was renamed truTV as part of a
    rebranding initiative that also included expansion of the
    network’s programming to emphasize real-life stories.


 


    For its sports programming, Turner has a programming rights
    agreement with the National Basketball Association
    (“NBA”) to produce and telecast a certain number of
    regular season and playoff games on TNT through the
    2015-16
    season. In January 2008, Turner entered into a separate
    agreement with the NBA, effective for the
    2008-09
    season through the
    2015-16
    season, under which Turner and the NBA will jointly manage a
    portfolio of the NBA’s digital businesses. Turner also has
    a programming rights agreement with Major League Baseball to
    produce and telecast a certain number of regular season and
    playoff games on TBS that began with the 2007 season playoffs
    and continues through the 2013 season. In addition, Turner has
    secured rights to produce and telecast certain NASCAR Sprint Cup
    Series races from 2007 through 2014.


 


    In May 2007, the Company transferred the Atlanta Braves baseball
    franchise (the “Braves”), formerly owned by Turner, to
    Liberty Media Corporation (“Liberty”) in a transaction
    involving the exchange of shares of Time Warner common stock by
    Liberty for a subsidiary of the Company that owned assets
    including the Braves and cash. For further information regarding
    this transaction, see “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Recent Developments.”


 


    Turner’s CNN and CNN Headline News networks,
    24-hour per
    day cable television news services, reached approximately
    96.4 million U.S. television households and
    95.9 million U.S. television households, respectively,
    as of December 2007. A high definition feed of CNN also is
    available. As of December 31, 2007, CNN managed
    39 news bureaus and editorial operations, of which 10 are
    located in the U.S. and 29 are located around the world.


 



    International
    Networks


 


    Turner’s entertainment and news networks are distributed to
    multiple distribution platforms such as cable and IPTV systems,
    satellite platforms, mobile operators and broadcasters for
    delivery to households, hotels and other viewers around the
    world.


 


    The entertainment networks distribute approximately 50
    region-specific versions and
    local-language
    feeds of Cartoon Network, Boomerang, Turner Classic Movies and
    TNT in over 175 countries around the world. In collaboration
    with IPC Media’s Nuts magazine, in the U.K., Turner
    distributes Nuts TV, a live programming block for men
    complemented by a related website. In the U.K. and Ireland,
    Turner distributes Cartoonito, an all-action animation network,
    and in India and certain other South Asian territories, it
    distributes Pogo, an entertainment network for children.


 


    In October 2007, Turner completed the acquisition of seven pay
    television networks and the sales representation rights for
    eight third-party-owned networks operating principally in Latin
    America from Claxson Interactive Group, Inc. The seven pay
    television networks are entertainment networks that vary in
    content, including movies, series, fashion and music.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    CNN International, an English language news network, reached
    more than 200 countries and territories as of the end of 2007.
    CNN International is comprised of network feeds in five separate
    regions: Europe/Middle East/Africa, Asia Pacific, South Asia,
    Latin America and North America. CNN Headline News is
    distributed in Canada, the Caribbean and parts of Latin America;
    CNN en Español is a separate Spanish language news network
    distributed primarily in Latin America.


 


    In a number of regions, Turner has launched
    local-language
    versions of its channels through joint ventures with local
    partners. These include CNN+, a Spanish language
    24-hour news
    network distributed in Spain; CNN Turk, a Turkish language
    24-hour news
    network available in Turkey and the Netherlands; CNNj, an
    English-with-Japanese-translation news service in Japan; Cartoon
    Network Korea, a
    local-language
    24-hour
    channel for kids; and BOING, an Italian language
    24-hour kids
    animation network. CNN content is distributed through CNN-IBN, a
    co-branded,
    24-hour,
    English language general news and current affairs channel in
    India. Turner also has interests in a Mandarin language general
    entertainment service in China (CETV). In January 2008, Turner,
    along with a local partner, launched Cartoon Network Turkey, and
    in March 2008 plans to launch TNT Turkey, both Turkish language
    channels distributed in Turkey.


 



    Websites


 


    In addition to its networks, Turner manages various websites
    that generate revenues from commercial advertising and, in some
    cases, consumer subscription fees. CNN has multiple websites,
    including CNN.com and several localized editions that
    operate in Turner’s international markets. CNN also
    operates CNNMoney.com in collaboration with Time
    Inc.’s Money, Fortune and FSB: Fortune
    Small Business magazines. Turner operates the NASCAR
    websites NASCAR.com and NASCAR.com en
    Español, a Spanish language website launched in 2007,
    under an agreement with NASCAR through 2014, and the PGA’s
    and PGA Tour’s websites, PGA.com and
    PGATour.com, respectively, under agreements with the PGA
    and the PGA Tour through 2011. Turner also operates
    CartoonNetwork.com, a popular advertiser-supported site
    in the U.S., as well as 36 international sites affiliated with
    the regional children’s services feeds. In addition, Turner
    operates GameTap, a direct-to-consumer broadband gaming service
    offering access to over 900 classic and contemporary video
    games, Play On!, a broadband subscription service providing
    Atlantic Coast Conference basketball games and other sports,
    VeryFunnyAds.com, a website featuring comic television
    commercials from around the world, and SuperDeluxe.com, a
    website featuring original comedic content.


 



    Home Box
    Office


 


    HBO, operated by Home Box Office, is the nation’s most
    widely distributed premium pay television service. Including
    HBO’s sister service, Cinemax, the Home Box Office Services
    had approximately 40.6 million subscriptions as of
    December 31, 2007. Both HBO and Cinemax are made available
    on a number of multiplex channels and in high definition. Home
    Box Office also offers HBO On Demand and Cinemax On Demand,
    subscription products that enable digital cable subscribers who
    subscribe to the HBO and Cinemax services to view programs at a
    time of their choice.


 


    A major portion of the programming on HBO and Cinemax consists
    of recently released, uncut and uncensored theatrical motion
    pictures. Home Box Office’s practice has been to negotiate
    licensing agreements of varying duration with major motion
    picture studios and independent producers and distributors in
    order to ensure continued access to such films. These agreements
    typically grant pay television exhibition rights to recently
    released and certain older films owned by the particular studio,
    producer or distributor in exchange for negotiated fees, which
    may be a function of, among other things, the box office
    performances of the films.


 


    HBO is also defined by its award-winning original dramatic and
    comedy series, movies and mini-series such as The Sopranos,
    Entourage, Rome and Curb Your Enthusiasm, and boxing
    matches and sports news programs, as well as comedy specials,
    family programming and documentaries. In 2007, among other
    awards, HBO won 21 Primetime
    Emmys® —
    the most of any network — as well as three Sports
    Emmys®.


 


    HBO also generates revenues from the exploitation of its
    original programming through multiple distribution outlets. HBO
    Video markets a variety of HBO’s original programming on
    DVD. HBO licenses its original series,



    
    16



Table of Contents




    such as The Sopranos and Sex and the City, to
    basic cable channels and has also licensed Sex and the City
    in syndication. The Home Box Office-produced show
    Everybody Loves Raymond, which aired for nine seasons on
    broadcast television, is currently in syndication as well. Home
    Box Office content is also distributed by AT&T Mobility LLC
    (as successor to Cingular Wireless LLC) and Vodafone Group
    Services Limited on their respective domestic and international
    mobile services. In addition, through various pay television
    joint ventures, HBO-branded services are distributed in more
    than 50 countries in Latin America, Asia and Central Europe.


 



    The
    CW


 


    Launched at the beginning of the Fall 2006 broadcast season, The
    CW broadcast network is a
    50-50 joint
    venture between Warner Bros. and CBS. The CW’s schedule
    includes, among other things, a six night-13 hour primetime
    lineup with programming such as America’s Next Top
    Model, Gossip Girl, Everybody Hates Chris, Smallville and
    Supernatural, as well as a
    five-hour
    block of animated children’s programming on Saturday
    mornings. As of December 31, 2007, The CW was carried
    nationally by affiliated television stations covering 94% of
    U.S. television households. Among the affiliates of The CW
    are 14 stations owned by Tribune Broadcasting and
    9 CBS-owned stations.


 



    Competition


 


    Each of the Networks competes with other television programming
    services for marketing and distribution by cable, satellite and
    other distribution systems. Each of the Networks also competes
    for viewers’ attention and audience share with all other
    forms of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast
    networks, local over-the-air television stations, other pay and
    basic cable television services, motion pictures, home video,
    pay-per-view
    and
    video-on-demand
    services, online activities, including Internet streaming and
    downloading, and other forms of news, information and
    entertainment. In addition, the Networks face competition for
    programming from those same commercial television networks,
    independent stations, and pay and basic cable television
    services, some of which have exclusive contracts with motion
    picture studios and independent motion picture distributors.
    Each of the Turner Networks and Turner’s websites compete
    for advertising with numerous direct competitors and other media.


 


    The Networks’ production divisions compete with other
    producers and distributors of programming for air time on
    broadcast, cable and DBS networks, independent commercial
    television stations and pay and basic cable television services.
    The Networks’ production divisions also compete with other
    production companies for the services of producers, directors,
    writers, actors and others and for the acquisition of literary
    properties.


 



    PUBLISHING


 


    The Company’s publishing business is conducted primarily by
    Time Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, either
    directly or through its subsidiaries. Time Inc. is the largest
    magazine publisher in the U.S. based on advertising
    revenues, as measured by Publishers Information Bureau
    (“PIB”). In addition to publishing magazines, Time
    Inc. also operates a number of websites, as well as certain
    direct-marketing and direct-selling businesses.


 



    Magazines
    and Websites


 


    As of December 31, 2007, Time Inc. published over 120
    magazines worldwide, with over 20 in the U.S. and over 100
    in the U.K., Mexico and other countries. These magazines
    generally appeal to the broad consumer market and include
    People, Sports Illustrated, InStyle, Southern Living, Real
    Simple, Time, Cooking Light, Entertainment Weekly and
    What’s On TV. In addition, Time Inc. operates over
    40 websites worldwide, such as CNNMoney.com, SI.com
    and People.com, that collectively had average monthly
    unique visitors of over 23 million worldwide in 2007,
    according to Nielsen Media Research in the U.S. and
    comScore Media Metrix in the U.K. In March 2007, Time Inc. sold
    its Parenting Group and most of its Time4 Media magazine titles,
    consisting of 18 of Time Inc.’s smaller niche magazines, to
    a subsidiary of Bonnier AB, a Swedish media company.


 


    In recent years, Time Inc. has expanded its publishing business
    most significantly through developing and acquiring websites.
    Time Inc.’s largest websites publish original content as
    well as content from Time Inc.’s



    
    17



Table of Contents




    magazines. In addition, Time Inc. continues to expand through
    the development of new magazines, licensed international
    editions and product extensions, including books and television.


 



    Publishing


 


    Generally, each magazine and website published by Time Inc. in
    the U.S. has an editorial staff under the supervision of a
    managing editor and a business staff under the management of a
    president or publisher. Magazine production and distribution
    activities and Internet technology activities are generally
    centralized. Fulfillment activities for Time Inc.’s
    U.S. magazines are generally administered from a
    centralized facility in Tampa, Florida.


 


    Time Inc.’s major magazines and websites are described
    below:


 


    People is a weekly magazine that reports on celebrities
    and other newsworthy individuals. People magazine
    generated 16% of Time Inc.’s revenues in 2007. People
    has expanded its franchise to include: People en
    Español, a monthly
    Spanish-language
    magazine aimed primarily at U.S. Hispanic readers;
    People Style Watch, a monthly magazine aimed at
    U.S. style-conscious younger readers; People.com, a
    leading website for celebrity news, photos and entertainment
    coverage; and PeopleEnEspañol.com, a bilingual
    website aimed primarily at the U.S. Hispanic audience.


 


    Sports Illustrated is a weekly magazine that covers
    sports. Sports Illustrated for Kids is a monthly sports
    magazine intended primarily for pre-teenagers. Golf, a
    leading monthly golf title, is managed by the Sports Illustrated
    group. SI.com is a leading sports news website that
    provides up-to-the-minute scores and sports news
    24/7, as
    well as statistics and analysis of domestic and international
    professional sports, as well as college and high school sports.
    SI.com operates FanNation.com, a social-media,
    community site for sports fans and fantasy sports enthusiasts
    that was acquired by Time Inc. in 2007.


 


    InStyle, a monthly magazine, and InStyle.com, a
    related website, focus on celebrity, lifestyle, beauty and
    fashion. Time Inc. also publishes InStyle in the U.K. and
    Mexico through wholly owned subsidiaries.


 


    Real Simple, a monthly magazine, and
    RealSimple.com, a related website, focus on life, home,
    body and soul and provide practical solutions to make
    women’s lives easier. In addition, Real Simple’s
    weekly television series aired its second season on PBS in
    2007.


 


    Time is a weekly newsmagazine that summarizes the news
    and interprets the week’s events, both national and
    international. Time also has four weekly
    English-language
    editions that circulate outside the U.S. Time for Kids
    is a weekly current events newsmagazine for children,
    ages 5 to 13. TIME.com provides breaking news and
    analysis, giving its readers access to its
    24-hour
    global news gathering operation and its vast archive.


 


    Entertainment Weekly, a weekly magazine, and
    EW.com, a related entertainment news website, feature
    reviews and reports on movies, DVDs, video, television, music
    and books.


 


    Fortune is a bi-weekly magazine that reports on worldwide
    economic and business developments and compiles the annual
    Fortune 500 list of the largest U.S. corporations.
    Other business and financial magazines are Money, a
    monthly magazine that reports primarily on personal finance, and
    FSB: Fortune Small Business, a monthly magazine that
    covers small business and is published under an agreement with
    American Express Publishing Corporation. All of these magazines
    combine their resources on the CNNMoney.com website, a
    leading financial news and personal finance website that is a
    joint venture with CNN.


 


    IPC Media (“IPC”), a leading U.K. consumer magazine
    publisher, publishes over 75 magazines as well as numerous
    special issues and guides. IPC’s magazines include
    What’s On TV and TV Times in the television
    listings sector, Chat, Woman and Woman’s Own
    in the women’s lifestyle sector, Now in the
    celebrity sector, Woman & Home and Ideal
    Home in the home and garden sector, Country Life and
    Horse & Hound in the leisure sector, NME
    in the music sector and Nuts and Loaded in the
    men’s lifestyle sector. In addition, IPC publishes four
    magazines through three unconsolidated joint ventures with
    Groupe Marie Claire. In 2007, IPC launched
    HouseToHome.co.uk, a shelter website, and
    GoodToKnowYou.co.uk, a mass market women’s website,
    and acquired TrustedReviews.com, a leading U.K. consumer
    product review site.



    
    18



Table of Contents




    Southern Progress Corporation (“SPC”) publishes seven
    monthly magazines, including the regional lifestyle magazines
    Southern Living and Sunset, the epicurean magazine
    Cooking Light, the shelter magazine Coastal Living,
    and the women’s fitness magazine Health. In
    2007, SPC launched the MyRecipes.com and
    MyHomeIdeas.comwebsites, which feature recipe content and
    shelter content, respectively, from SPC and other Time Inc.
    brands.


 


    This Old House publishes This Old House magazine and
    ThisOldHouse.com, a related website, and produces two
    television series, This Old House and Ask This Old
    House.


 


    Essence Communications Inc. publishes Essence magazine
    and produces the annual Essence Music Festival.


 


    Grupo Editorial Expansión (“GEE”) publishes over
    15 consumer and business magazines in Mexico including
    Expansión, a business magazine; Quién, a
    celebrity and personality magazine; Obras, an
    architecture, construction and engineering magazine; Life and
    Style, a men’s lifestyle magazine; and Balance,
    a fitness, health and nutrition magazine for women. In addition,
    GEE publishes two magazines through an unconsolidated joint
    venture with Hachette Filipacchi Presse S.A. GEE also operates
    CNNExpansíon.com, a leading business site in Mexico,
    and, in 2007, acquired MetrosCúbicos.com, a leading
    website for classified real estate listings in Mexico.


 


    In addition, Time Inc. licenses over 40 editions of its
    magazines for publication outside the U.S. to publishers in
    over 15 countries.


 


    Time Inc. also has responsibility under a management contract
    for the American Express Publishing Corporation’s
    publishing operations, including its lifestyle magazines
    Travel & Leisure, Food & Wine and
    Departures.


 



    Advertising


 


    Time Inc. derives more than half of its revenues from the sale
    of advertising, primarily from its magazines and with a small
    but increasing amount of advertising revenues from its websites.
    Advertising carried in Time Inc.’s magazines and websites
    is predominantly consumer advertising, including toiletries and
    cosmetics, food, domestic and foreign automobiles, financial
    services and insurance, pharmaceuticals, retail and department
    stores, media and movies, apparel, computers and
    telecommunications and over-the-counter drugs and remedies.


 


    In 2007, Time Inc.’s U.S. magazines accounted for
    18.6% (compared to 19.7% in 2006) of the total
    U.S. advertising revenues in consumer magazines, excluding
    newspaper supplements, as measured by PIB. People,
    Sports Illustrated and Time were ranked 1, 3 and
    4, respectively, in terms of PIB-measured advertising revenues
    in 2007, and Time Inc. had seven of the top 25 leading magazines
    based on the same measure.


 



    Circulation


 


    Through the sale of magazines to consumers, circulation
    generates significant revenues for Time Inc. In addition,
    circulation is an important component in determining Time
    Inc.’s print advertising revenues because advertising page
    rates are based on circulation and audience. Most of Time
    Inc.’s U.S. magazines are sold primarily by
    subscription and delivered to subscribers through the mail.
    Subscriptions are sold primarily through direct mail and online
    solicitation, subscription sales agents, marketing agreements
    with other companies and insert cards in Time Inc. magazines and
    other publications. Most of Time Inc.’s international
    magazines are sold primarily at newsstands.


 


    Time Inc.’s Synapse Group, Inc. (“Synapse”) is a
    leading seller of domestic magazine subscriptions to Time Inc.
    magazines and magazines of other U.S. publishers. Synapse
    sells magazine subscriptions principally through marketing
    relationships with credit card issuers, consumer catalog
    companies, commercial airlines with frequent flier programs,
    retailers and Internet businesses.


 


    Newsstand sales of magazines, which are reported as a component
    of Subscription revenues, are sold through traditional
    newsstands as well as other retail outlets such as Wal-Mart,
    supermarkets and convenience and drug stores, and may or may not
    result in repeat purchases. Time/Warner Retail Sales &
    Marketing Inc. distributes and markets copies of Time Inc.
    magazines and books and certain other publishers’ magazines
    and books through third-party wholesalers primarily in the
    U.S. and Canada. Wholesalers, in turn, sell Time Inc.
    magazines to retailers.



    
    19



Table of Contents




    IPC’s Marketforce (UK) Ltd distributes and markets copies
    of all IPC magazines, some international Time Inc. editions and
    certain other publishers’ magazines outside of the
    U.S. and Canada through third-party wholesalers to retail
    outlets.


 



    Paper
    and Printing


 


    Paper constitutes a significant component of physical costs in
    the production of magazines. During 2007, Time Inc.
    purchased over 400,000 tons of paper principally from four
    independent manufacturers.


 


    Printing and binding for Time Inc. magazines are performed
    primarily by major domestic and international independent
    printing concerns in multiple locations in the U.S. and in
    other countries. Magazine printing contracts are typically
    fixed-term at fixed prices with, in some cases, adjustments
    based on inflation.


 



    Direct-Marketing,
    Direct-Selling and Books


 


    Through subsidiaries, Time Inc. conducts direct-marketing and
    direct-selling businesses as well as certain niche book
    publishing. In addition to selling magazine subscriptions,
    Synapse is a direct marketer of consumer products, including
    jewelry and other merchandise.


 


    Southern Living At Home, the direct selling division of SPC,
    specializes in home décor products that are sold in the
    U.S. through over 33,000 independent consultants at parties
    hosted in people’s homes.


 


    Time Inc.’s book publishing business consists of Oxmoor
    House and Sunset Books, which are operated by SPC, and Time Inc.
    Home Entertainment, which is operated by Time Inc., that publish
    how-to, lifestyle and special commemorative books, among other
    topics.


 


    In April 2007, Time Inc. sold its 50% interest in the Bookspan
    joint venture, an owner and operator of U.S. book clubs via
    direct mail and
    e-commerce,
    to a subsidiary of Bertelsmann AG.


 



    Postal
    Rates


 


    Postal costs represent a significant operating expense for the
    Company’s magazine publishing and direct-marketing
    activities. In 2007, Time Inc. spent over $375 million for
    services provided by the U.S. Postal Service. The
    U.S. Postal Service implemented a postal rate increase
    effective May 14, 2007 for all classes of mail except
    periodicals and effective July 15, 2007 for periodicals,
    which resulted in an annual postage cost increase of
    approximately 10% for Time Inc. These increased costs are not
    directly passed on to magazine subscribers. Time Inc. strives to
    minimize postal expense through the use of certain cost-saving
    activities with respect to address quality, mail preparation and
    delivery of products to postal facilities.


 



    Competition


 


    Time Inc. faces significant competition from several direct
    competitors and other media, including the Internet. Time
    Inc.’s magazine and website operations compete with
    numerous other magazine and website publishers and other media
    for circulation and audience and for advertising directed at the
    general public and at more focused demographic groups. The
    publishing business presents few barriers to entry and many new
    magazines and websites are launched annually. In recent years,
    competitors have launched
    and/or
    repositioned many magazines and websites, primarily in the
    celebrity, women’s service and business sectors, that
    compete directly with People, InStyle, Real Simple, Fortune
    and other Time Inc. magazines, as well as Time Inc.’s
    websites. This has resulted in increased competition, especially
    at newsstands and mass retailers and particularly for celebrity
    and entertainment magazines. Time Inc. anticipates that it will
    face continuing competition from these newer competitors, and it
    is possible that additional competitors may enter the magazine
    and website publishing businesses and further intensify
    competition. In addition, websites that charge users for access
    may shift to a free-to-user advertising model, which could have
    a negative impact on the competitive position of Time
    Inc.’s websites.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    Competition for magazine and website advertising revenues is
    primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and size of
    audience (including the circulation and readership of magazines
    and the number of unique visitors to and page views on
    websites), audience response to advertisers’ products and
    services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive
    factors in publishing include product positioning, editorial
    quality, price and customer service, which impact audience,
    circulation revenue and advertising revenue. In addition,
    competition for magazine advertising revenue has intensified in
    recent years as advertising dollars have increasingly shifted
    from traditional to online media.


 


    Time Inc.’s direct-marketing operations compete with other
    direct marketers through all media, including the Internet, for
    the consumer’s attention.


 



    INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY


 


    Time Warner is one of the world’s leading creators, owners
    and distributors of intellectual property. The Company’s
    vast intellectual property assets include copyrights in motion
    pictures, television programs, magazines, software and books;
    trademarks in names, logos and characters; patents or patent
    applications for inventions related to its products and
    services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of
    various kinds. These intellectual property assets, both in the
    U.S. and in other countries around the world, are among the
    Company’s most valuable assets. The Company derives value
    from these assets through a range of business models, including
    the theatrical release of films, the licensing of its films and
    television programming to multiple domestic and international
    television and cable networks and pay television services, and
    the sale of products such as DVDs and magazines. It also derives
    revenues related to its intellectual property through
    advertising in its magazines, networks, cable systems and online
    services and from various types of licensing activities,
    including licensing of its trademarks and characters. To protect
    these assets, the Company relies on a combination of copyright,
    trademark, unfair competition, patent and trade secret laws and
    contract provisions. The duration of the protection afforded to
    the Company’s intellectual property depends on the type of
    property in question and the laws and regulations of the
    relevant jurisdiction; in the case of licenses, it also depends
    on contractual
    and/or
    statutory provisions.


 


    The Company vigorously pursues all appropriate avenues of
    protection for its intellectual property. However, there can be
    no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be
    successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the
    Company’s intellectual property is often difficult and the
    steps taken may not in every case prevent misappropriation.
    Piracy, particularly in the digital environment, continues to
    present a threat to revenues from products and services based on
    intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit that threat
    through a combination of approaches, including offering
    legitimate market alternatives, applying technical protection
    measures, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting
    appropriate legislative initiatives, and enhancing public
    awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property. The
    Company works with various cross-industry groups and trade
    associations, as well as with strategic partners to develop and
    implement technological solutions to control digital piracy.


 


    Third parties may bring intellectual property infringement
    claims or challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s
    intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges
    could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property
    rights. In addition, domestic and international laws, statutes
    and regulations are constantly changing, and the Company’s
    assets may be either adversely or beneficially affected by such
    changes. Moreover, intellectual property protections may be
    insufficient or insufficiently enforced in certain foreign
    territories. The Company therefore generally engages in efforts
    to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around
    the world, including efforts to ensure effective and
    appropriately tailored remedies for infringement.


 



    REGULATORY
    MATTERS


 


    The Company’s cable system, cable network, original
    programming and Internet businesses are subject, in part, to
    regulation by the FCC, and the cable system business is also
    subject to regulation by most local and some state governments
    where the Company has cable systems. In addition, the
    Company’s cable business is subject to compliance with the
    terms of the Memorandum Opinion and Order issued by the FCC in
    July 2006 in connection



    
    21



Table of Contents




    with the regulatory clearance of the Adelphia/Comcast
    Transactions (the “Adelphia/Comcast Transactions
    Order”). The Company’s magazine and other direct
    marketing activities are also subject to regulation.


 


    The following is a summary of the terms of these orders as well
    as current significant federal, state and local laws and
    regulations affecting the growth and operation of these
    businesses. In addition, various legislative and regulatory
    proposals under consideration from time to time by Congress and
    various federal agencies have in the past materially affected,
    and may in the future materially affect, the Company.


 



    Cable
    System Regulation


 



    Communications
    Act and FCC Regulation


 


    The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the
    “Communications Act”) and the regulations and policies
    of the FCC affect significant aspects of TWC’s cable system
    operations, including video subscriber rates; carriage of
    broadcast television stations, as well as the way TWC sells its
    program packages to subscribers; the use of cable systems by
    franchising authorities and other third parties; cable system
    ownership; offering of voice and high-speed data services; and
    the use of utility poles and conduits.


 


    “Net Neutrality” Legislative and Regulatory
    Proposals.  In the
    2005-2006
    Congressional term, several “net neutrality” -type
    provisions were introduced as part of broader Communications Act
    reform legislation. These provisions would have limited to a
    greater or lesser extent the ability of broadband providers to
    adopt pricing models and network management policies that would
    differentiate based on different uses of the Internet. None of
    these provisions were adopted. Similar legislation has been
    introduced in the
    2007-2008
    Congressional term.


 


    In September 2005, the FCC issued a non-binding policy statement
    regarding “net neutrality” setting forth the
    FCC’s view that consumers are entitled to access and use
    the lawful Internet content and applications of their choice, to
    connect lawful devices of their choosing that do not harm the
    broadband provider’s network and to competition among
    network, application, service and content providers. Although
    the FCC has made these principles binding as to certain
    telecommunications companies in orders adopted in connection
    with mergers undertaken by those companies, to date, the FCC has
    declined to adopt any such regulations that would be applicable
    to TWC.


 


    Several parties are seeking to persuade the FCC to adopt
    “net neutrality” in a number of proceedings that are
    currently pending before the agency. These include pending FCC
    rulemakings regarding
    IP-enabled
    services and broadband Internet access services, as well as a
    petition for declaratory ruling and a petition for rulemaking,
    both of which ask the FCC to define “reasonable”
    network management practice. In addition, in March 2007, the FCC
    opened a Notice of Inquiry regarding the implementation of net
    neutrality regulations and, in January 2008, the FCC released
    Public Notices seeking comment by February 13, 2008 on the
    petitions.


 


    Subscriber Rates.  The Communications Act and
    the FCC’s rules regulate rates for basic cable service and
    equipment in communities that are not subject to “effective
    competition,” as defined by federal law. Where there is no
    effective competition, federal law authorizes franchising
    authorities to regulate the monthly rates charged by the
    operator for the minimum level of video programming service,
    referred to as basic service, which generally includes local
    broadcast channels and public access or educational and
    government channels required by the franchise. This kind of
    regulation also applies to the installation, sale and lease of
    equipment used by subscribers to receive basic service, such as
    set-top boxes and remote control units. In many localities, TWC
    is no longer subject to this rate regulation, either because the
    local franchising authority has not become certified by the FCC
    to regulate these rates or because the FCC has found that there
    is effective competition.


 


    Carriage of Broadcast Television Stations and Other
    Programming Regulation.  The Communications Act
    and the FCC’s regulations contain broadcast signal carriage
    requirements that allow local commercial television broadcast
    stations to elect once every three years to require a cable
    system to carry their stations, subject to some exceptions, or
    to negotiate with cable systems the terms by which the cable
    systems may carry their stations, commonly called
    “retransmission consent.” The most recent election by
    broadcasters became effective on January 1, 2006.



    
    22



Table of Contents




    Apart from those local commercial broadcast stations that elect
    retransmission consent, the Communications Act and the
    FCC’s regulations require a cable operator to devote up to
    one-third of its activated channel capacity for the mandatory
    carriage of local commercial television stations and certain
    low-power stations. The Communications Act and the FCC’s
    regulations give local non-commercial television stations
    mandatory carriage rights, but non-commercial stations do not
    have the option to negotiate retransmission consent for the
    carriage of their signals by cable systems. Additionally, cable
    systems must obtain retransmission consent for all
    “distant” commercial television stations (i.e., those
    television stations outside the designated market area to which
    a community is assigned) except for commercial
    satellite-delivered independent “superstations” and
    some low-power television stations.


 


    FCC regulations require TWC to carry the signals of both
    commercial and non-commercial local digital-only broadcast
    stations and the digital signals of local broadcast stations
    that return their analog spectrum to the government and convert
    to a digital broadcast format. The FCC’s rules give
    digital-only broadcast stations discretion to elect whether the
    operator will carry the station’s primary signal in a
    digital or converted analog format, and the rules also permit
    broadcasters with both analog and digital signals to tie the
    carriage of their digital signals to the carriage of their
    analog signals as a retransmission consent condition.


 


    In 2005, the FCC reaffirmed its earlier decision rejecting
    multi-casting (i.e., carriage of more than one program stream
    per broadcaster) requirements with respect to carriage of
    broadcast signals pursuant to must-carry rules. Certain parties
    filed petitions for reconsideration. To date, no action has been
    taken on these reconsideration petitions, and the Company is
    unable to predict what requirements, if any, the FCC might adopt.


 


    In September 2007, the FCC adopted an order that requires cable
    operators that offer at least some analog service (i.e., that
    are not operating “all-digital” systems) to provide to
    subscribers both analog and digital feeds of must-carry
    broadcast stations beginning February 18, 2009, regardless
    of whether both feeds are provided to the cable operator.
    Currently, this obligation is scheduled to terminate in February
    2012, subject to FCC review. Certain technical specifics of how
    post-transition carriage will be accomplished, such as signal
    format and resolution, remain unresolved by the FCC. The Company
    is unable to predict what requirements, if any, the FCC might
    adopt or the timing of such action.


 


    The Communications Act also permits franchising authorities to
    negotiate with cable operators for channels for public,
    educational and governmental access programming. It also
    requires a cable system with 36 or more activated channels to
    designate a significant portion of its channel capacity for
    commercial leased access by third parties, which limits the
    amount of capacity TWC has available for other programming. The
    FCC regulates various aspects of such third-party commercial use
    of channel capacity on TWC’s cable systems, including the
    rates and some terms and conditions of the commercial use. In
    November 2007, the FCC adopted an order revising its leased
    access rules by lowering the permitted rate charged to most
    leased access programmers, as well as adopting new procedural
    and complaint provisions. The FCC is seeking further comment on
    whether to extend the new rate methodology to program-length
    commercial and sales programming. In addition, the FCC has also
    launched a proceeding to examine its substantive and procedural
    rules for program carriage.


 


    In connection with certain changes in TWC’s programming
    line-up, the
    Communications Act and FCC regulations also require TWC to give
    various kinds of advance notice. DBS operators and other
    non-cable programming distributors are not subject to analogous
    duties.


 


    In November 2007, the FCC also adopted a requirement that cable
    operators submit to the agency information concerning the number
    of homes that their systems pass and information concerning
    their subscribers. The agency intends to use this information to
    determine whether the so-called “70/70” test has been
    met, which may give the FCC authority to promulgate certain
    additional regulations covering cable operators if it is shown
    that cable systems with 36 or more activated channels are
    available to 70% of households within the United States and that
    70% of those households subscribe to such systems.


 


    High-Speed Internet Access.  From time to time,
    industry groups, telephone companies and Internet service
    providers (“ISPs”) have sought local, state and
    federal regulations that would require cable operators to sell
    capacity on their systems to ISPs under a common carrier
    regulatory scheme. Cable operators have successfully challenged



    
    23



Table of Contents




    regulations requiring this “forced access,” although
    courts that have considered these cases have employed varying
    legal rationales in rejecting these regulations.


 


    In 2002, the FCC released an order in which it determined that
    cable-modem service constitutes an “information
    service” rather than a “cable service” or a
    “telecommunications service,” as those terms are used
    in the Communications Act, and that determination was sustained
    by the U.S. Supreme Court. According to the FCC, an
    “information service” classification may permit but
    does not require it to impose “multiple ISP”
    requirements. In 2002, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding
    to consider whether it may and should do so and whether local
    franchising authorities should be permitted to do so. As of
    February 1, 2008, this rulemaking proceeding was still
    pending. In 2005, the FCC adopted a policy statement intended to
    offer guidance on its approach to the Internet and broadband
    access. Among other things, the policy statement stated that
    consumers are entitled to competition among network, service and
    content providers, and to access the lawful content and services
    of their choice, subject to the needs of law enforcement. The
    FCC may in the future adopt specific regulations to implement
    this policy statement.


 


    Ownership Limitations.  There are various rules
    prohibiting joint ownership of cable systems and other kinds of
    communications facilities. Local telephone companies generally
    may not acquire more than a small equity interest in an existing
    cable system in the telephone company’s service area, and
    cable operators generally may not acquire more than a small
    equity interest in a local telephone company providing service
    within the cable operator’s franchise area. In addition,
    cable operators may not have more than a small interest in
    multipoint microwave distribution service facilities or SMATV
    systems in their service areas. Finally, the FCC has been
    exploring whether it should prohibit cable operators from
    holding ownership interests in satellite operators.


 


    The Communications Act also required the FCC to adopt
    “reasonable limits” on the number of subscribers a
    cable operator may reach through systems in which it holds an
    ownership interest. In September 1993, the FCC adopted a rule
    that was later amended to prohibit any cable operator from
    serving more than 30% of all cable, satellite and other
    multi-channel subscribers nationwide. The Communications Act
    also required the FCC to adopt “reasonable limits” on
    the number of channels that cable operators may fill with
    programming services in which they hold an ownership interest.
    In September 1993, the FCC imposed a limit of 40% of a cable
    operator’s first 75 activated channels. In March 2001, a
    federal appeals court struck down both limits and remanded the
    issue to the FCC for further review. The FCC initiated a
    rulemaking in 2001 to consider adopting a new horizontal
    ownership limit and announced a follow-on proceeding to consider
    the issue anew. In December 2007, the FCC adopted a rule to
    prohibit any cable operator from serving more than 30% of all
    cable, satellite and other multi-channel subscribers nationwide
    and launched a further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking
    comment on vertical ownership limits and cable attribution rules.


 


    Pole Attachment Regulation.  The Communications
    Act requires that utilities provide cable systems and
    telecommunications carriers with non-discriminatory access to
    any pole, conduit or
    right-of-way
    controlled by investor-owned utilities. The Communications Act
    also requires the FCC to regulate the rates, terms and
    conditions imposed by these utilities for cable systems’
    use of utility pole and conduit space unless state authorities
    demonstrate to the FCC that they adequately regulate pole
    attachment rates, as is the case in some states in which TWC
    operates. In the absence of state regulation, the FCC
    administers pole attachment rates on a formula basis. The
    FCC’s original rate formula governs the maximum rate
    utilities may charge for attachments to their poles and conduit
    by cable operators providing cable services. The FCC also
    adopted a second rate formula that became effective in February
    2001 and governs the maximum rate investor-owned utilities may
    charge for attachments to their poles and conduit by companies
    providing telecommunications services. The U.S. Supreme
    Court has upheld the FCC’s jurisdiction to regulate the
    rates, terms and conditions of cable operators’ pole
    attachments that are being used to provide both cable service
    and high-speed data service. The applicability of this
    determination to TWC’s voice services is still an open
    issue. In November 2007, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed
    Rulemaking that proposes to establish a single pole attachment
    rate for all companies providing broadband internet access
    service.


 


    Set-Top Box Regulation.  Certain regulatory
    requirements are also applicable to set-top boxes. Currently,
    many cable subscribers rent from their cable operator a set-top
    box that performs both signal-reception functions and
    conditional-access security functions. The lease rates cable
    operators charge for this equipment are subject to rate
    regulation to the same extent as basic cable service. In 1996,
    Congress enacted a statute seeking to allow



    
    24



Table of Contents




    subscribers to use set-top boxes obtained from third-party
    retailers. The most important of the FCC’s implementing
    regulations became effective on July 1, 2007 and requires
    cable operators to cease placing into service new set-top boxes
    that have integrated security so that subscribers can purchase
    set boxes or other navigational devices from other sources.
    Direct broadcast operators are not subject to this requirement
    and certain incumbent telephone operators that provide cable
    service have received a limited waiver from the FCC.


 


    In December 2002, cable operators and consumer-electronics
    companies entered into a standard-setting agreement relating to
    reception equipment that uses a conditional-access security
    card — a CableCARD — provided by the cable
    operator to receive one-way cable services. To implement the
    agreement, the FCC adopted regulations that (i) establish a
    voluntary labeling system for such one way devices,
    (ii) require most cable systems to support these devices,
    and (iii) adopt various content-encoding rules, including a
    ban on the use of “selectable output controls.” The
    FCC has initiated a notice of proposed rulemaking that may lead
    to regulations covering equipment sold at retail that is
    designed to receive two-way products and services.


 


    Exclusive Arrangements with Multiple Dwelling
    Units.  In November 2007, the FCC adopted an order
    declaring null and void all exclusive access arrangements
    between cable operators and multiple dwelling units and other
    centrally-managed real estate developments (“MDUs”).
    In connection with the order, the FCC also issued a Further
    Notice of Proposed Rulemaking regarding whether to expand the
    ban on exclusivity to other types of multi-channel video
    programming distributors (“MVPDs”) in addition to
    cable operators, including DBS providers, and whether additional
    types of exclusivity arrangements between MVPDs and MDUs not
    addressed in the order should be prohibited. The FCC indicated
    it would issue an order resolving these issues within six months
    from release of the final order adopting the new regulation. In
    December 2007, the National Cable and Telecommunications
    Association (the “NCTA”) filed a stay request at the
    FCC and an appeal in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    District of Columbia Circuit on the issue of whether the FCC has
    the authority to prohibit the enforcement of existing contracts
    between MDUs and cable operators.


 


    Other Regulatory Requirements of the Communications Act and
    the FCC.  The Communications Act also includes
    provisions regulating customer service, inside wiring in
    residences and other buildings, subscriber privacy, marketing
    practices, equal employment opportunity, technical standards and
    equipment compatibility, antenna structure notification,
    marking, lighting, emergency alert system requirements and the
    collection from cable operators of annual regulatory fees, which
    are calculated based on the number of subscribers served and the
    types of FCC licenses held.


 


    Compulsory Copyright Licenses for Carriage of Broadcast
    Stations and Music Performance
    Licenses.  TWC’s cable systems provide
    subscribers with, among other things, local and distant
    television broadcast stations. TWC generally does not obtain a
    license to use the copyrighted performances contained in these
    stations’ programming directly from program owners.
    Instead, TWC secures those rights pursuant to a compulsory
    license provided by federal law, which requires TWC to make
    payments to a copyright pool. The elimination or substantial
    modification of the cable compulsory license could adversely
    affect TWC’s ability to obtain suitable programming and
    could substantially increase the cost of programming that is
    available for distribution to TWC subscribers.


 


    Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order.  In the
    Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order, the FCC imposed conditions
    on TWC, which will expire in July 2012, related to regional
    sports networks (“RSNs”), as defined in the
    Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order, and the resolution of
    disputes pursuant to the FCC’s leased access regulations.
    In particular, the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order provides
    that (i) neither TWC nor its affiliates may offer an
    affiliated RSN on an exclusive basis to any MVPD; (ii) TWC
    may not unduly or improperly influence the decision of any
    affiliated RSN to sell programming to an unaffiliated MVPD or
    the prices, terms and conditions of sale of programming by an
    affiliated RSN to an unaffiliated MVPD; (iii) if an MVPD
    and an affiliated RSN cannot reach an agreement on the terms and
    conditions of carriage, the MVPD may elect commercial
    arbitration to resolve the dispute; (iv) if an unaffiliated
    RSN is denied carriage by TWC, it may elect commercial
    arbitration to resolve the dispute in accordance with federal
    and FCC rules; and (v) with respect to leased access, if an
    unaffiliated programmer is unable to reach an agreement with
    TWC, that programmer may elect commercial arbitration to resolve
    the dispute, with the arbitrator being required to resolve the
    dispute using the FCC’s existing rate formula relating to
    pricing terms. The FCC has suspended this “baseball
    style” arbitration procedure as it relates to TWC’s
    carriage of unaffiliated RSNs, although it will allow the
    arbitration of a claim brought by the Mid-Atlantic Sports



    
    25



Table of Contents




    Network because the claim was brought prior to the suspension.
    Any arbitrator’s award is subject to de novo review at the
    FCC as well as judicial review.


 



    State
    and Local Regulation


 


    Cable operators operate their systems under non-exclusive
    franchises. Franchises are awarded, and cable operators are
    regulated, by state franchising authorities, local franchising
    authorities, or both.


 


    Franchise agreements typically require payment of franchise fees
    and contain regulatory provisions addressing, among other
    things, upgrades, service quality, cable service to schools and
    other public institutions, insurance and indemnity bonds. The
    terms and conditions of cable franchises vary from jurisdiction
    to jurisdiction. The Communications Act provides protections
    against many unreasonable terms. In particular, the
    Communications Act imposes a ceiling on franchise fees of five
    percent of revenues derived from cable service. TWC generally
    passes the franchise fee on to its subscribers, listing it as a
    separate item on the bill.


 


    Franchise agreements usually have a term of ten to 15 years
    from the date of grant, although some renewals may be for
    shorter terms. Franchises usually are terminable only if the
    cable operator fails to comply with material provisions. TWC has
    not had a franchise terminated due to breach. After a franchise
    agreement expires, a local franchising authority may seek to
    impose new and more onerous requirements, including requirements
    to upgrade facilities, to increase channel capacity and to
    provide various new services. Federal law, however, provides
    significant substantive and procedural protections for cable
    operators seeking renewal of their franchises. In addition,
    although TWC occasionally reaches the expiration date of a
    franchise agreement without having a written renewal or
    extension, it generally has the right to continue to operate,
    either by agreement with the local franchising authority or by
    law, while continuing to negotiate a renewal. In the past,
    substantially all of the material franchises relating to
    TWC’s systems have been renewed by the relevant local
    franchising authority, though sometimes only after significant
    time and effort. In December 2006, the FCC adopted new
    regulations intended to limit the ability of local franchising
    authorities to delay or refuse the grant of competitive
    franchises (by, for example, imposing deadlines on franchise
    negotiations). Various localities as well as the NCTA have
    appealed the new regulations. The FCC has applied most of these
    rules to incumbent cable operators which, although immediately
    effective, in some cases may not alter existing franchises prior
    to renewal. Despite TWC’s efforts and the protections of
    federal law, it is possible that some of TWC’s franchises
    may not be renewed, and TWC may be required to make significant
    additional investments in its cable systems in response to
    requirements imposed in the course of the franchise renewal
    process.


 



    Regulation
    of Telephony


 


    It is unclear whether and to what extent regulators will subject
    services like TWC’s Digital Phone service
    (“Non-traditional Voice Services”) to the regulations
    that apply to traditional circuit-switched telephone service
    provided by incumbent telephone companies. In February 2004, the
    FCC opened a broad-based rulemaking proceeding to consider these
    and other issues. That rulemaking remains pending. The FCC has,
    however, issued a series of orders resolving discrete issues on
    a piecemeal basis. For example, over the past several years, the
    FCC has required Non-traditional Voice Service providers to
    supply E911 capabilities as a standard feature to their
    subscribers, to assist law enforcement investigations with
    wiretaps and information, to contribute to the federal universal
    service fund, to pay regulatory fees, to comply with customer
    privacy rules, to provide access to their services to persons
    with disabilities, and to provide subscribers with local number
    portability when changing telephone providers. Certain other
    issues remain unclear. In November 2004, the FCC issued an order
    stating that certain kinds of Non-traditional Voice Services are
    not subject to state certification and tariffing requirements.
    The full extent of this preemption is not clear. One state
    public utility commission, for example, has determined that
    TWC’s Digital Phone service is subject to traditional,
    circuit-switched telephone regulations. It is also unclear
    whether utility pole owners may charge cable operators offering
    Non-traditional Voice Services higher rates for pole rental than
    for traditional cable service and cable modem service.



    
    26



Table of Contents





    Network
    Regulation


 


    Under the Communications Act and its implementing regulations,
    vertically integrated cable programmers like the Turner Networks
    and the Home Box Office Services are generally prohibited from
    offering different prices, terms, or conditions to competing
    unaffiliated MVPDs unless the differential is justified by
    certain permissible factors set forth in the FCC’s program
    access regulations. The rules also place restrictions on the
    ability of vertically integrated programmers to enter into
    exclusive distribution arrangements with cable operators.


 


    In October 2007, the FCC initiated a rulemaking to examine
    questions regarding the use of bundling practices in carriage
    agreements for both broadcast and satellite cable programming.
    It is unclear what, if any, action the FCC will take in this
    matter.


 


    In January 2007, online video provider VDC Corporation
    (“VDC”) filed a program access complaint with the FCC
    against Turner, also naming TWC and Time Warner in the
    proceeding. VDC seeks both a licensing agreement for the
    carriage of various Turner networks, as well as damages not to
    exceed $25 million. This complaint raises issues of first
    impression at the FCC, including whether online providers such
    as VDC are entitled to take advantage of the program access
    rules. Turner believes VDC’s arguments are without merit,
    and has requested dismissal of the complaint. As of
    February 1, 2008, this matter was still pending before the
    FCC.


 


    Certain other federal laws also contain provisions relating to
    violent and sexually explicit programming, including provisions
    relating to the voluntary promulgation of ratings by the
    industry and requiring manufacturers to build television sets
    with the capability of blocking certain coded programming (the
    so-called “V-chip”). Cable networks with programming
    produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children 12
    and younger must also comply with commercial time limits during
    such programming.


 



    Marketing
    Regulation


 


    Time Inc.’s magazine subscription and direct marketing
    activities, as well as marketing and billing activities by AOL
    and other divisions of the Company, are subject to regulation by
    the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and each of the
    states under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting
    unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas of
    marketing activity are also subject to specific federal statutes
    and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the
    Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy), the FTC
    Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule and the FTC
    Telemarketing Sales Rule. Other statutes and rules also regulate
    conduct in areas such as privacy, data security and
    telemarketing. Time Inc. regularly receives and resolves routine
    inquiries from state Attorneys General and is subject to
    agreements with state Attorneys General addressing some of Time
    Inc.’s marketing activities. Also, Time Inc. has pending
    with the FTC a response to a Civil Investigative Demand relating
    to Time Inc.’s retail subscription sales partnership with
    Best Buy.


 


    AOL is subject to certain consent orders and assurances of
    voluntary compliance or discontinuance reached with federal and
    state regulators. In 2004, AOL entered into a Consent Decree
    with the FTC related to the company’s retention and rebate
    practices. AOL has also entered into a series of settlements
    with state Attorneys General. In 2007, AOL entered into an
    Assurance of Voluntary Compliance (“AVC”) with the
    State of Florida under which it undertook an obligation to
    maintain various safeguards that it had previously implemented
    (and to develop and implement several new disclosure,
    confirmation and call recordation processes) around certain
    registration, marketing and retention processes. In 2005, AOL
    entered into an Assurance of Discontinuance with the State of
    New York under which it agreed to implement two safeguards
    around its retention process (third-party verification, which
    AOL had been testing prior to the investigation, and a change to
    retention compensation practices). AOL from time to time also is
    subject to investigations by various state regulators regarding
    consumer protection issues related to marketing and billing
    matters.



    
    27



Table of Contents





    DESCRIPTION
    OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENTS
    RELATED TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC.


 



    Background


 


    TWC was created in connection with the March 31, 2003
    restructuring (the “TWE Restructuring”) of TWE, a
    limited partnership which formerly held a substantial portion of
    Time Warner’s filmed entertainment, networks and cable
    system assets.


 


    Among other things, as a result of the TWE Restructuring, all of
    Time Warner’s cable system assets, including those that
    were wholly owned by Time Warner and those that were held
    through TWE, became controlled by TWC. As part of the TWE
    Restructuring, Time Warner received a 79% economic interest in
    the cable systems of TWC and TWE, the non-cable system assets of
    TWE were distributed to Time Warner, and TWE, which continued to
    own cable systems, became a subsidiary of TWC. Comcast, which
    prior to the TWE Restructuring had a 27.64% stake in TWE,
    following the TWE Restructuring held 17.9% of TWC’s common
    stock and a 4.7% limited partnership interest in TWE.


 


    In connection with the closing on July 31, 2006 of the
    Adelphia Acquisition, TW NY paid for the Adelphia assets
    acquired by it with both cash and shares of TWC’s
    Class A Common Stock representing approximately 16% of
    TWC’s outstanding common stock. Immediately prior to the
    Adelphia Acquisition, through a series of other transactions,
    TWC and TWE redeemed Comcast’s interests in TWC and TWE,
    respectively. On February 13, 2007, Adelphia’s
    Chapter 11 reorganization plan became effective and, under
    applicable securities law regulations and provisions of the
    U.S. bankruptcy code, TWC became a public company subject
    to the requirements of the Exchange Act. Under the terms of the
    reorganization plan, during 2007, substantially all of the
    shares of TWC Class A Common Stock that Adelphia received
    in the Adelphia Acquisition were distributed to Adelphia’s
    creditors. On March 1, 2007, TWC’s Class A Common
    Stock began trading on the NYSE.


 


    Time Warner owns approximately 84% of TWC’s common stock
    (including approximately 83% of the outstanding TWC Class A
    Common Stock and all outstanding shares of TWC Class B
    Common Stock), and also owns an indirect 12.43% non-voting
    equity interest in TW NY.


 



    Management
    and Operation of TWC


 


    The following description summarizes certain provisions of
    agreements related to, and constituent documents of, TWC that
    affect and govern the ongoing operations of TWC. Such
    description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in
    its entirety by reference to the provisions of such agreements
    and constituent documents.


 


    Stockholders of TWC.  A subsidiary of Time
    Warner owns 746,000,000 shares of TWC Class A Common
    Stock, which has one vote per share, and 75,000,000 shares
    of TWC Class B Common Stock, which has ten votes per share,
    which together represent 90.6% of the voting power of TWC stock
    and approximately 84% of the equity of TWC. The TWC Certificate
    of Incorporation (as defined below) does not provide a mechanism
    for the conversion of TWC Class B Common Stock into TWC
    Class A Common Stock. The TWC Class A Common Stock and
    the TWC Class B Common Stock vote together as a single
    class on all matters, except with respect to the election of
    directors and certain matters described below.


 


    Board of Directors of TWC.  The TWC
    Class A Common Stock votes as a separate class with respect
    to the election of the Class A directors of TWC (the
    “Class A Directors”), and the TWC Class B
    Common Stock votes as a separate class with respect to the
    election of the Class B directors of TWC (the
    “Class B Directors”). Pursuant to the amended and
    restated certificate of incorporation of TWC (the “TWC
    Certificate of Incorporation”), which was adopted upon the
    closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Class A Directors
    must represent not less than one-sixth and not more than
    one-fifth of the directors of TWC, and the Class B
    Directors must represent not less than four-fifths of the
    directors of TWC. As a result of its holdings, Time Warner has
    the ability to cause the election of all Class A Directors
    and Class B Directors, subject to certain restrictions on
    the identity of these directors discussed below.


 


    Under the terms of the TWC Certificate of Incorporation, until
    August 1, 2009 (three years following July 31, 2006,
    the date upon which shares of TWC common stock were issued in
    connection with the Adelphia Acquisition),



    
    28



Table of Contents




    at least 50% of the board of directors of TWC must be
    independent directors as defined under the NYSE listed company
    rules.


 


    Protections of Minority Class A Common
    Stockholders.  The approval of the holders of a
    majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of TWC
    Class A Common Stock held by persons other than Time Warner
    is necessary for any merger, consolidation or business
    combination of TWC in which the holders of TWC Class A
    Common Stock do not receive per share consideration identical to
    that received by the holders of the TWC Class B Common
    Stock (other than with respect to voting power) or that would
    otherwise adversely affect the specific rights and privileges of
    the holders of the TWC Class A Common Stock relative to the
    specific rights and privileges of the holders of the TWC
    Class B Common Stock. In addition, the approval of
    (i) the holders of a majority of the voting power of the
    outstanding shares of TWC Class A Common Stock held by
    persons other than Time Warner and (ii) the majority of the
    independent directors on TWC’s board of directors is
    required to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    change or adopt a provision inconsistent with the TWC
    Certificate of Incorporation if such change would have a
    material adverse effect on the rights of the holders of the TWC
    Class A Common Stock in a manner different from the effect
    on the rights of the holders of the TWC Class B Common
    Stock;




 



     
        •    

    
    through July 31, 2011, (a) change any of the
    provisions of TWC’s amended and restated by-laws (the
    “TWC By-Laws”) concerning restrictions on transactions
    between TWC and Time Warner and its affiliates or (b) adopt
    any provision of the TWC Certificate of Incorporation or the TWC
    By-Laws inconsistent with such restrictions; and




 



     
        •    

    
    change or adopt a provision inconsistent with the provisions of
    the TWC Certificate of Incorporation that set forth:





 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    the approvals required in connection with any merger,
    consolidation or business combination of TWC;




 



     
        •    

    
    the number of independent directors required on the TWC board of
    directors;




 



     
        •    

    
    the approvals required to change the TWC By-laws; and




 



     
        •    

    
    the approvals required to change the TWC Certificate of
    Incorporation.





 



    Matters
    Affecting the Relationship between Time Warner and TWC


 


    Indebtedness Approval Right.  Pursuant to a
    shareholder agreement between TWC and Time Warner (the
    “Shareholder Agreement”), until such time as the
    indebtedness of TWC is no longer attributable to Time Warner, in
    Time Warner’s reasonable judgment, TWC, its subsidiaries
    and entities that it manages may not, without the consent of
    Time Warner, create, incur or guarantee any indebtedness (except
    for ordinary course issuances of commercial paper or borrowings
    under TWC’s current revolving credit facility up to the
    limit of that credit facility, to which Time Warner has
    consented), including preferred equity, or rental obligations if
    its ratio of indebtedness plus six times its annual rental
    expense to EBITDA (as EBITDA is defined in the Shareholder
    Agreement) plus rental expense, or “EBITDAR,” then
    exceeds or would exceed 3:1.


 


    Other Time Warner Rights.  Pursuant to the
    Shareholder Agreement, so long as Time Warner has the power to
    elect a majority of TWC’s board of directors, TWC must
    obtain Time Warner’s consent before entering into any
    agreement that binds or purports to bind Time Warner or its
    affiliates or that would subject TWC or its subsidiaries to
    significant penalties or restrictions as a result of any action
    or omission of Time Warner or its affiliates; or adopting a
    stockholder rights plan, becoming subject to section 203 of
    the Delaware General Corporation Law, adopting a “fair
    price” provision in its certificate of incorporation or
    taking any similar action.


 


    Furthermore, pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement, so long as
    Time Warner has the power to elect a majority of TWC’s
    board of directors, Time Warner may purchase debt securities
    issued by TWE only after giving notice to TWC of the approximate
    amount of debt securities it intends to purchase and the general
    time period for the purchase, which period may not be greater
    than 90 days, subject to TWC’s right to give notice to
    Time Warner that it intends to purchase such amount of TWE debt
    securities itself.



    
    29



Table of Contents




    Time Warner Standstill.  Under the Shareholder
    Agreement, so long as Time Warner has the power to elect a
    majority of TWC’s board of directors, Time Warner has
    agreed that prior to August 1, 2009 (three years following
    the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition), Time Warner will not
    make or announce a tender offer or exchange offer for TWC
    Class A Common Stock without the approval of a majority of
    the independent directors of TWC; and prior to August 1,
    2016 (10 years following the closing of the Adelphia
    Acquisition), Time Warner will not enter into any business
    combination with TWC, including a short-form merger, without the
    approval of a majority of the independent directors of TWC.
    Under the Adelphia Acquisition agreement, TWC has agreed that
    for a period of two years following the closing of the Adelphia
    Acquisition it will not enter into any short-form merger.


 


    Transactions between Time Warner and TWC.  The
    TWC By-Laws provide that Time Warner may only enter into
    transactions with TWC and its subsidiaries, including TWE, that
    are on terms that, at the time of entering into such
    transaction, are substantially as favorable to TWC or its
    subsidiaries as they would be able to receive in a comparable
    arm’s-length transaction with a third party. Any such
    transaction involving reasonably anticipated payments or other
    consideration of $50 million or greater also requires the
    prior approval of a majority of the independent directors of
    TWC. The TWC By-Laws also prohibit TWC from entering into any
    transaction having the intended effect of benefiting Time Warner
    and any of its affiliates (other than TWC and its subsidiaries)
    at the expense of TWC or any of its subsidiaries in a manner
    that would deprive TWC or any of its subsidiaries of the benefit
    it would have otherwise obtained if the transaction were to have
    been effected on arm’s-length terms. Each of these By-law
    provisions terminates in the event that Time Warner and TWC
    cease to be affiliates.


 


    Time Warner Registration Rights Agreement between TWC and
    Time Warner.  At the closing of the TWE
    Restructuring, Time Warner and TWC entered into a registration
    rights agreement (the “Registration Rights Agreement”)
    relating to Time Warner’s shares of TWC common stock.
    Subject to several exceptions, including TWC’s right to
    defer a demand registration under some circumstances, Time
    Warner may, under that agreement, require that TWC take
    commercially reasonable steps to register for public resale
    under the Securities Act all shares of common stock that Time
    Warner requests to be registered. Time Warner may demand an
    unlimited number of registrations. In addition, Time Warner has
    been granted “piggyback” registration rights subject
    to customary restrictions and TWC is permitted to piggyback on
    Time Warner’s registrations. TWC has also agreed that, in
    connection with a registration and sale by Time Warner under the
    Registration Rights Agreement, it will indemnify Time Warner and
    bear all fees, costs and expenses, except underwriting discounts
    and selling commissions.


 



    FOREIGN
    CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES


 


    Time Warner is subject to various risks, including the risk of
    fluctuation in currency exchange rates and to exchange controls.
    Time Warner cannot predict the extent to which such controls and
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect its
    operations in the future or its ability to remit dollars from
    abroad. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Market
    Risk Management — Foreign Currency Risk,”
    Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial
    statements, “Derivative Instruments,” and “Risk
    Factors” below, for additional information.


 



    FINANCIAL
    INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND
    BACKLOG


 


    Financial and other information by segment and revenues by
    geographic area for each year in the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2007 is set forth in Note 14 to the
    Company’s consolidated financial statements, “Segment
    Information.” Information with respect to the
    Company’s backlog, representing future revenue not yet
    recorded from cash contracts for the licensing of theatrical and
    television programming, at December 31, 2007 and
    December 31, 2006, is set forth in Note 15 to the
    Company’s consolidated financial statements,
    “Commitments and Contingencies —
    Commitments — Programming Licensing Backlog.”



    
    30



Table of Contents








 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY


 


    Several of the Company’s businesses operate in
    industries that are subject to rapid technological change, and
    if Time Warner does not respond appropriately to technological
    changes, its competitive position may be
    harmed.  Time Warner’s businesses operate
    in the highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing
    media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries.
    Several of its businesses are dependent to a large extent on
    their ability to acquire, develop, adopt, and exploit new and
    existing technologies to distinguish their products and services
    from those of their competitors. Technological development,
    application and exploitation can take long periods of time and
    require significant capital investments. In addition, the
    Company may be required to anticipate far in advance which of
    the potential new technologies and equipment it should adopt for
    new products and services or for future enhancements of or
    upgrades to its existing products and services. If it chooses
    technologies or equipment that do not become the prevailing
    standard or that are less effective, cost-efficient or
    attractive to its customers than those chosen by its
    competitors, or if it offers products or services that fail to
    appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or
    do not function as expected, the Company’s competitive
    position could deteriorate, and its operations, business or
    financial results could be adversely affected.


 


    The Company’s competitive position also may be adversely
    affected by various timing factors, such as delays in its new
    product or service offerings or the ability of its competitors
    to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products
    and services more quickly than the Company. Furthermore,
    advances in technology or changes in competitors’ product
    and service offerings may require the Company in the future to
    make additional research and development expenditures or to
    offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain
    products and services the Company currently offers to customers
    separately or at a premium. Also, if the costs of existing
    technologies decrease in the future, the Company may not be able
    to maintain current price levels for its products or services.
    In addition, the inability to obtain intellectual property
    rights from third parties at a reasonable price or at all could
    impair the ability of the Company to respond to technological
    advances in a timely or cost-effective manner.


 


    The combination of increased competition, more
    technologically-advanced platforms, products and services, the
    increasing number of choices available to consumers and the
    overall rate of change in the media, entertainment, interactive
    services and cable industries requires companies such as Time
    Warner to become more responsive to consumer needs and to adapt
    more quickly to market conditions than in the past. The Company
    could have difficulty managing these changes while at the same
    time maintaining its rates of growth and profitability.


 


    Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television
    programming and other content may decrease the revenues received
    from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment
    content and adversely affect its business and
    profitability.  Piracy of motion pictures,
    television programming, video content and DVDs poses significant
    challenges to several of the Company’s businesses.
    Technological advances allowing the unauthorized dissemination
    of motion pictures, television programming and other content in
    unprotected digital formats, including via the Internet,
    increase the threat of piracy. Such technological advances make
    it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality
    unauthorized copies of such content. The proliferation of
    unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s products or
    the products it licenses from third parties can have an adverse
    effect on its businesses and profitability because these
    products reduce the revenue that Time Warner potentially could
    receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its
    content. In addition, if piracy continues to increase, it could
    have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and
    profitability. Although piracy adversely affects the
    Company’s U.S. revenues, the impact on revenues from
    outside the United States is more significant, particularly in
    countries where laws protective of intellectual property rights
    are insufficient or are not strictly enforced. Time Warner has
    taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat
    piracy, both individually and together with cross-industry
    groups, trade associations and strategic partners, including the
    launch of new services for consumers at competitive price
    points, aggressive online and customs enforcement, compressed
    release windows and educational campaigns. Policing the
    unauthorized use of the Company’s intellectual property is
    difficult, however, and the steps taken by the Company will not
    prevent the infringement by
    and/or
    piracy of unauthorized third parties in every case. There can



    
    31



Table of Contents




    be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its
    rights and protect its intellectual property will be successful
    in reducing content piracy.


 


    Time Warner’s businesses may suffer if it cannot
    continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights
    on which its businesses depend.  The Company
    relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in
    the United States and similar laws in other countries, and
    licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers,
    suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain its
    intellectual property rights in technology and products and
    services used in its various operations. However, the
    Company’s intellectual property rights could be challenged
    or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be
    sufficient to permit it to take advantage of current industry
    trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which
    could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of
    certain product and service offerings or other competitive harm.
    Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect Time
    Warner’s proprietary rights, or such laws may not be
    strictly enforced. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions the
    Company may be unable to protect its intellectual property
    adequately against unauthorized copying or use, which could
    adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the
    rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which
    the Company operates, much of the business of its various
    segments relies on technologies developed or licensed by third
    parties, and Time Warner may not be able to obtain or to
    continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on
    reasonable terms, if at all. It is also possible that, in
    connection with a merger, sale or acquisition transaction, the
    Company may license its trademarks or service marks and
    associated goodwill to third parties, or the business of various
    segments could be subject to certain restrictions in connection
    with such trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill
    that were not in place prior to such a transaction.


 


    The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to
    claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have
    an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating
    results due to a disruption in its business operations, the
    incurrence of significant costs and other
    factors.  From time to time, the Company
    receives notices from others claiming that it infringes their
    intellectual property rights. Recently, the number of patent
    infringement claims resulting in lawsuits, in particular against
    the technology-related businesses at AOL and TWC, has increased.
    The number of other intellectual property infringement claims
    also could increase in the future. Increased infringement claims
    and lawsuits could require Time Warner to enter into royalty or
    licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial
    monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently
    from further use of the intellectual property in question. This
    could require Time Warner to change its business practices and
    limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if Time Warner
    believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be
    time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s
    attention and resources away from its businesses. In addition,
    agreements entered into by the Company may require it to
    indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual
    property infringement claims, which could require the Company to
    expend sums to defend against or settle such claims or,
    potentially, to pay damages. If Time Warner is required to take
    any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the
    Company’s businesses or operating results. The use of new
    technologies to distribute content on the Internet, including
    through Internet sites providing social networking and
    user-generated content, could put some of the Company’s
    businesses at an increased risk of allegations of copyright or
    trademark infringement or legal liability, as well as cause them
    to incur significant technical, legal or other costs and limit
    their ability to provide competitive content, features or tools.


 


    Time Warner faces risks relating to doing business
    internationally that could adversely affect its business and
    operating results.  Time Warner’s
    businesses operate and serve customers worldwide. There are
    certain risks inherent in doing business internationally,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    local laws and customs relating to the publication and
    distribution of content and the display and sale of advertising;




 



     
        •    

    
    import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations;




 



     
        •    

    
    difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing
    a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance and
    language and cultural differences;




 



     
        •    

    
    issues related to occupational safety and adherence to stringent
    local labor laws and regulations;




 



     
        •    

    
    longer payment cycles;






    
    32



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    political or social unrest;




 



     
        •    

    
    economic volatility;




 



     
        •    

    
    seasonal volatility in business activity;




 



     
        •    

    
    risks related to government regulation;




 



     
        •    

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations;




 



     
        •    

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences;




 



     
        •    

    
    statutory shareholder minority rights and restrictions on
    foreign direct ownership; and




 



     
        •    

    
    cost of entry.





 


    One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s
    international operations and its business and operating results.


 


    Time Warner’s businesses face additional risks
    internationally. Across the media industry, opportunities for
    revenue growth are beginning to shift toward developing nations,
    such as India, Mexico, Brazil, Central and Eastern Europe,
    Russia and China. In addition, revenues generated by certain
    media sectors, including television networks, local content
    production, online advertising and video games, are expected to
    experience robust growth in both developed and developing
    nations outside the U.S. The Company’s businesses
    currently do not have a strong presence in some of these
    fast-growing sectors. Accordingly, the Company could be at a
    competitive disadvantage in the long term if its businesses are
    not able to strengthen their positions and capitalize on
    international opportunities in high-growth economies and media
    sectors. International expansion involves significant
    investments as well as risks associated with doing business
    abroad, as described above. Furthermore, investments in some
    regions can take a long period to generate an adequate return
    and in some cases there may not be a developed or efficient
    legal system to protect foreign investment or intellectual
    property rights. In addition, if the Company expands into new
    international regions, some of its businesses will have only
    limited experience in operating and marketing their products and
    services in certain regions and could be at a disadvantage
    compared to competitors with more experience, particularly
    diversified media companies that are well established in some
    developing nations. Although the Company is seeking to expand
    its businesses in certain strategic international regions and is
    formulating strategies for the growth of diversified media
    businesses in developing nations, there can be no assurance that
    such strategies will succeed.


 


    Weakening economic conditions or other factors could
    reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or
    hinder its ability to increase such
    revenues.  Because several of the
    Company’s segments derive a substantial portion of their
    revenues from the sale of advertising, a decline or delay in
    advertising expenditures could reduce the Company’s
    revenues or hinder its ability to increase these revenues.
    Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting
    general economic conditions, such as recessions, as well as
    budgeting and buying patterns. In addition, advertising
    expenditures could be negatively affected by shifting societal
    norms, pressure from public interest groups, changes in laws and
    regulations and other social, political and regulatory
    developments. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political
    uncertainty or hostilities also could lead to a reduction in
    advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news
    coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures by
    companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the
    automotive, financial services and pharmaceutical industries,
    represent a significant portion of the Company’s
    advertising revenues, and any political, economic, social or
    technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the
    advertising spending of these sectors could adversely affect the
    Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to increase
    such revenues. Also, a continued downturn in the
    U.S. housing market could negatively impact TWC’s
    ability to attract new basic video subscribers and generate
    increased subscription revenues. In addition, because many of
    the products and services offered by the Company are largely
    discretionary items, weakening economic conditions or outlook
    could reduce the consumption of such products and services and
    reduce the Company’s revenues.


 


    The introduction and increased popularity of alternative
    technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and
    other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits
    and/or
    advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could
    adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing,
    Networks and 



    
    33



Table of Contents




    Filmed Entertainment segments.  The
    Company’s Publishing and Networks segments derive a
    substantial portion of their revenue from advertising in
    magazines and on television. Distribution of news, entertainment
    and other information via the Internet has become increasingly
    popular over the past several years, and viewing news,
    entertainment and other content on a personal computer, cellular
    phone or other electronic or portable electronic device has
    become increasingly popular as well. Accordingly, advertising
    dollars have started to shift from traditional media to online
    media. The shift in major advertisers’ expenditures from
    traditional to online media has had an adverse effect on the
    revenue growth of the Publishing and Networks segments, which
    may continue in the future. This shift could also further
    intensify competition for advertising in traditional media,
    which could exert greater pressure on these segments to increase
    revenues from online advertising. In addition, if consumers
    increasingly elect to obtain news and entertainment online
    instead of by purchasing the Publishing segment’s
    magazines, this trend could negatively impact the segment’s
    circulation revenue and also adversely affect its advertising
    revenue. The Publishing and Networks segments have taken various
    steps to diversify the means by which they distribute content
    and generate advertising revenue, including increasing
    investments in Internet properties. However, the segments’
    strategies for achieving sustained revenue growth may not be
    sufficient to offset revenue losses resulting from a continued
    shift in advertising dollars over the long term from traditional
    to online media. In addition, this trend also could have an
    indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by
    the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by
    Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming
    in syndication and to basic cable networks.


 


    The Company faces risks relating to competition for the
    leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has
    intensified in part due to advances in
    technology.  In addition to the various
    competitive factors discussed in the following paragraphs, all
    of the Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating
    to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time
    of consumers. The Company’s businesses compete with each
    other and all other sources of news, information and
    entertainment, including broadcast television, movies, live
    events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games,
    sports, print media and the Internet. Technological
    advancements, such as video on demand, new video formats and
    Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of
    media and entertainment choices available to consumers and
    intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The
    increasing number of choices available to audiences could
    negatively impact not only consumer demand for the
    Company’s products and services, but also advertisers’
    willingness to purchase advertising from the Company’s
    businesses. If the Company does not respond appropriately to
    further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices
    available to consumers, the Company’s competitive position
    could deteriorate, and its financial results could suffer.


 


    Several of the Company’s businesses rely heavily on
    network and information systems or other technology, and a
    disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as
    a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other
    malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental
    releases of information or similar events, may disrupt the
    Company’s businesses.  Because network
    and information systems and other technologies are critical to
    many of Time Warner’s operating activities, network or
    information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer
    hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other
    destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks
    and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural
    disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing
    risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on the Company
    and its customers, including degradation of service, service
    disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to
    equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large
    expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or
    information systems or to protect them from similar events in
    the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption
    of the Company’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a
    loss of customers or revenues.


 


    Furthermore, the operating activities of Time Warner’s
    various businesses could be subject to risks caused by
    misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental
    release or loss of information maintained in the Company’s
    information technology systems and networks, including customer,
    personnel and vendor data. The Company could be exposed to
    significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such
    events could damage the reputation and credibility of Time
    Warner and its businesses and have a negative impact on its
    revenues. The Company also could be required to expend
    significant capital and other resources to remedy any such
    security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness
    concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information,
    the



    
    34



Table of Contents




    potential misuse of such information and legislation that has
    been adopted or is being considered regarding the protection,
    privacy and security of personal information,
    information-related risks are increasing, particularly for
    businesses like Time Warner’s that handle a large amount of
    personal customer data.


 


    The Company’s Internet and advertising businesses are
    subject to regulation in the U.S. and internationally,
    which could cause these businesses to incur additional costs or
    liabilities or disrupt their business
    practices.  The Company’s businesses that
    generate revenues from online activities and the sale of
    advertising inventory and related services are subject to a
    variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to
    issues such as consumer protection, content regulation, user
    privacy and data protection, defamation, pricing, advertising,
    taxation, gambling, sweepstakes, promotions, billing and real
    estate. The application of these laws and regulations to these
    businesses in many instances is unclear or unsettled. Further,
    the application of laws regulating or requiring licenses for
    certain businesses of the Company’s advertisers, including
    the distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, adult content,
    tobacco or firearms, insurance and securities brokerage and
    legal services, can be unclear and is developing, especially
    with respect to the sale of these products and services on the
    Internet. Various laws and regulations are intended to protect
    the interests of children, such as the Children’s Online
    Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection
    Act, which restrict the distribution of certain materials deemed
    harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the
    ability of online services to collect user information from
    minors. The Company’s Internet and advertising businesses
    could incur substantial costs necessary to comply with these
    laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other
    liabilities if they fail to comply with them. Compliance with
    these laws and regulations also could cause these businesses to
    change or limit their business practices in a manner that is
    adverse to the businesses. In addition, if there are changes in
    laws, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, that provide
    protections that the Company’s Internet or advertising
    businesses rely on in conducting their businesses or if there
    are judicial interpretations narrowing the protections of these
    laws, it would subject these businesses to greater risk of
    liability and could increase their costs of compliance or limit
    their ability to operate certain lines of business.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S AOL BUSINESS


 


    The continuing shift in AOL’s business model from a
    primarily subscription-based business model to a primarily
    advertising-supported model involves significant
    risks.  In addition to continuing to implement
    the shift in its business model, AOL is working to separate the
    operations of its Access Services business and its Global Web
    Services business. As AOL has continued to implement the shift
    in its business model, AOL’s subscription revenues have
    been declining, and, although its advertising revenues have been
    increasing, they have not increased in an amount sufficient to
    offset the decline in its subscription revenues. Subscription
    revenues will remain an important source of operating income
    before depreciation and amortization (or OIBDA) for AOL in 2008.
    If subscribers to AOL’s Internet access service decline at
    a rate faster than anticipated, AOL’s ability to generate
    OIBDA in 2008 may be adversely affected.


 


    In addition, as subscription revenues continue to decline, AOL
    will become more dependent on continued cost reductions and
    advertising revenues in order to improve its financial
    performance. Identifying and implementing cost reductions may
    become increasingly difficult to do in an operationally
    effective manner and may lead to employee distraction or a
    decline in morale, as well as difficulty in hiring or retaining
    necessary employees. Cost reductions could also impair
    AOL’s ability to provide satisfactory customer service. As
    AOL continues to implement the shift in its business model, it
    becomes increasingly prone to the risks associated with
    operating an advertising business. Advertising revenues may be
    more unpredictable and variable than subscription revenues and
    are more likely to be adversely affected during economic
    downturns. In addition, AOL’s advertising business has
    benefited from significant growth in online advertising, and, if
    online advertising does not continue to grow, whether because of
    changing economic conditions or otherwise, AOL’s
    advertising revenues could be adversely impacted. See
    “Risks Relating to Time Warner Generally —
    Weakening economic conditions or other factors could reduce the
    Company’s advertising or other revenues or hinder its
    ability to increase such revenues,” as well as the risks
    relating to AOL’s advertising business described below.


 


    Pricing for advertising may continue to face downward
    pressure.  During 2007, advertisers
    increasingly purchased lower-priced inventory rather than
    higher-priced inventory, and increasingly demanded lower
    pricing, in addition to increasingly purchasing advertising
    inventory from third party advertising networks as described
    below.



    
    35



Table of Contents




    In order for advertising revenues to be maintained or increased
    in 2008 over 2007, AOL believes that it will be important to
    increase sales of advertising at higher prices. If advertisers
    continue to demand lower-priced inventory and continue to put
    downward pressure on pricing, AOL’s operating margins and
    its ability to generate OIBDA could be adversely affected.


 


    Costs to acquire advertising inventory could continue to
    increase.  The Platform-A business group must
    purchase inventory that can be sold to advertisers. AOL’s
    costs to acquire advertising inventory from third parties
    increased during 2007. Continuing increases in such costs during
    2008, due to competition for inventory or otherwise, could put
    downward pressure on AOL’s operating margins or impair its
    ability to generate OIBDA.


 


    AOL faces risks associated with the fragmentation of the
    Internet audience.  Consumers are fragmenting
    across the Internet, away from portals, such as AOL.com and
    Yahoo!, and migrating towards social networks and niche
    websites. This shift could require AOL to continue to acquire
    other companies, products or technologies or pay more for
    content, applications, features and tools that will attract and
    engage Internet consumers in order to increase advertising
    revenues. Furthermore, as Internet consumers continue to
    fragment, advertisers could increasingly seek to purchase
    advertising from third-party advertising networks or directly on
    niche sites, which could benefit the Platform-A business group
    but would adversely impact the advertising revenue generated on
    the AOL Network.


 


    Unless AOL increases the number of visitors to the AOL
    Network and maintains or increases their activity in areas where
    advertising revenues are generated, AOL may not be able to
    increase advertising revenues associated with the AOL
    Network.  In general, current and former
    subscribers are significantly more active on the AOL Network
    than other visitors to the AOL Network. As the number of
    AOL’s subscribers declines, AOL’s ability to maintain
    or increase advertising revenues may be adversely impacted
    unless the former subscribers are as active on the AOL Network
    after terminating their paid Internet access relationship with
    AOL as they were previously. In addition, AOL needs to increase
    the number of visitors, whether or not current or former
    subscribers, to the AOL Network and maintain or increase overall
    usage in order to continue to increase advertising revenues
    associated with the AOL Network. Furthermore, different online
    activities generate different volumes of advertising, sold at
    differing prices. It will be important that new visitors to the
    AOL Network be active on those properties that generate
    generally higher priced and higher volumes of advertising,
    leading to greater advertising revenues, and that as subscribers
    migrate to become unpaid accounts, their activity on the AOL
    Network continues in a manner similar to their activity before
    such migration.


 


    If AOL does not continue to develop and offer compelling
    and differentiated content, products and services, AOL’s
    advertising revenues could be adversely
    affected.  In order to attract Internet
    consumers and generate increased activity on the AOL Network,
    AOL believes that it must offer compelling and differentiated
    content, products and services. However, acquiring, developing
    and offering such content, products and services may require
    significant costs and time to develop, while consumer tastes may
    be difficult to predict and are subject to rapid change. If AOL
    is unable to provide content, products and services that are
    sufficiently attractive to its current and former subscribers
    and other Internet consumers, AOL may not be able to generate
    the increases in activity on the AOL Network necessary to
    generate increased paid-search and display advertising revenues.
    In addition, although AOL has access to certain content provided
    by the Company’s other businesses, it may be required to
    make substantial payments to license such content. Many of
    AOL’s content arrangements with third parties are
    non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or
    identical content. If AOL is unable to acquire or develop
    compelling content and do so at reasonable prices, or if other
    companies offer content that is similar to that provided by AOL,
    AOL may not be able to attract and increase the engagement of
    Internet consumers on the AOL Network.


 


    Continued growth in AOL’s advertising business also depends
    on the ability of the Platform-A business group to continue
    offering a competitive and distinctive range of advertising
    products and services for advertisers and publishers and its
    ability to maintain or increase prices for its advertising
    products and services. Continuing to develop and improve these
    products and services may require significant time and costs. If
    the Platform-A business group cannot continue to develop and
    improve its advertising products and services or if prices for
    its advertising products and services decrease, AOL’s
    advertising revenues could be adversely affected.


 


    If AOL cannot secure favorable arrangements to effectively
    distribute its products and services, it could hinder AOL’s
    ability to attract new Internet consumers or maintain or
    increase the engagement of Internet 



    
    36



Table of Contents




    consumers.  Distribution of AOL’s
    products and services is subject to significant competition.
    Furthermore, as the Internet audience continues to fragment and
    traffic continues to gravitate away from the Internet portals,
    distribution of AOL’s products and services via traditional
    methods may become less effective, and new distribution
    strategies may need to be developed. In an effort to reach a
    more fragmented audience, AOL is creating versions of certain of
    its products and services for consumer distribution that will
    generate activity on the AOL Network. Additionally, AOL seeks to
    develop technologies to allow AOL Network sites to interact with
    other websites and applications in order to allow and encourage
    third parties to use AOL’s content and services. However,
    even if AOL is able to secure favorable arrangements to
    distribute its products and services, this does not assure that
    AOL will be able to attract new Internet consumers and maintain
    or increase the engagement of Internet consumers on the AOL
    Network.


 


    More individuals are using devices other than personal and
    laptop computers to access and use the Internet, and if AOL
    cannot make its products and services available and attractive
    to consumers via these alternative devices, AOL’s
    advertising revenues could be adversely
    affected.  Individuals increasingly are
    accessing and using the Internet through devices other than a
    personal or laptop computer, such as personal digital assistants
    or mobile telephones, which differ from computers with respect
    to memory, functionality, resolution and screen size. In order
    for consumers to access and use AOL’s products and services
    via these alternative devices, AOL must ensure that its products
    and services are technologically compatible with such devices.
    AOL also needs to secure arrangements with device manufacturers
    and wireless carriers in order to have desktop placement on the
    alternative devices and to more effectively reach consumers. If
    AOL cannot effectively make its products and services available
    on alternative devices, fewer Internet consumers may access and
    use AOL’s products and services. Also, the Platform-A
    business group must be able to compose, package, and deliver
    compelling advertising on alternative devices, and the
    advertising revenue it generates may be negatively affected if
    it is not able to effectively do so.


 


    If AOL cannot effectively build a portfolio of alternate
    brands that are appealing to Internet consumers, AOL may have
    difficulty in increasing the engagement of Internet consumers on
    its web products and services.  AOL believes
    that the “AOL” brand is associated in the minds of
    consumers with its
    dial-up
    Internet access service, and AOL is seeking to build a portfolio
    of other brands, such as MapQuest and TMZ.com, that have
    a strong and more updated consumer association. If the AOL brand
    continues to be used to identify the AOL
    dial-up
    Internet access service as well as various web products and
    services, such as AOL.com, AOL Money & Finance and
    myAOL, this could lead to consumer confusion and exacerbate the
    challenges AOL faces in attracting Internet consumers to and
    engaging them on its web products and services.


 


    Changes in AOL’s relationship with a major customer
    of Advertising.com will put downward pressure on AOL’s
    advertising revenues in 2008.  Approximately
    17% of AOL’s growth in advertising revenues in 2007 was
    attributable to a major customer of Advertising.com. As a result
    of an amendment to the contract with this customer, beginning in
    2008, this customer is under no obligation to continue to do
    business with Advertising.com, which is expected to result in a
    substantial reduction in advertising revenues to be received
    from this customer. Accordingly, if AOL does not secure new or
    expanded relationships with other customers in amounts
    sufficient to offset any loss of revenues from the customer, it
    will not be able to maintain or increase advertising revenues.


 


    AOL faces intense competition in all aspects of its
    business.  In its Internet access business,
    AOL competes with other Internet access providers, especially
    broadband access providers, and this competition could cause the
    number of AOL subscribers to decline at a faster rate than
    experienced in the past. With respect to advertising generated
    on the AOL Network, AOL competes for the time and attention of
    consumers with a wide range of Internet companies, such as
    Yahoo!, Google, MSN, MySpace and Facebook, and traditional media
    companies, which are increasingly offering their own Internet
    products and services. The competition AOL’s advertising
    businesses face could intensify when Google’s acquisition
    of DoubleClick is completed and if Microsoft’s proposed
    acquisition of Yahoo! or other similar consolidations occur. The
    Internet is dynamic and rapidly evolving, and new and popular
    competitors, such as social networking sites, frequently emerge.
    AOL’s Platform-A business group competes with other
    aggregators of third-party advertising inventory and other
    companies offering competing advertising products, technology
    and services, as well as, increasingly, aggregators of such
    advertising products, technology and services. Competitors
    include such companies as 24/7 Real Media and ValueClick, as
    well as Google, Yahoo! and MSN. Competition among these
    companies is intensifying and may lead to continuing increases
    in traffic acquisition costs and continuing decreases in prices
    for advertising inventory. Following the



    
    37



Table of Contents




    sales of its Internet access businesses, AOL Europe’s
    primary competitors are global enterprises such as Google, MSN,
    and Yahoo!, new entrants such as Facebook, MySpace and other
    social networking sites and a large number of local enterprises.
    As AOL expands internationally, it will face intense competition
    from both global and local competitors. In addition, competition
    generally may cause AOL to incur unanticipated costs associated
    with research and product development. There can be no assurance
    that AOL will be able to compete successfully in the future with
    existing or potential competitors or that competition will not
    have an adverse effect on its business or results of operations.


 


    Acquisitions of other companies could have an adverse
    impact on AOL’s operations and result in unanticipated
    liabilities.  During 2007, AOL acquired six
    companies and expects to make additional acquisitions and
    strategic investments in the future. If AOL does not effectively
    integrate the operations and systems of the Platform-A companies
    (including ADTECH, Quigo and TACODA), it could negatively affect
    AOL’s ability to compete effectively and increase
    advertising revenues. The completion of acquisitions and
    strategic investments and the integration of acquired businesses
    involve a substantial commitment of resources. In addition, past
    or future transactions may be accompanied by a number of risks,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    the uncertainty of AOL’s returns on investment due to the
    new and developing industries (e.g., mobile advertising) in
    which some of the acquired companies operate;




 



     
        •    

    
    the adverse impact of known potential liabilities or unknown
    liabilities, such as claims of patent or other intellectual
    property infringement, associated with the companies acquired or
    in which AOL invests;




 



     
        •    

    
    the difficulty of integrating technology, administrative
    systems, personnel and operations of acquired companies into
    AOL’s services, systems and operations and unanticipated
    expenses related to such integration;




 



     
        •    

    
    potential loss of key talent at acquired companies;




 



     
        •    

    
    the potential disruption of AOL’s on-going business and
    distraction of its management;




 



     
        •    

    
    additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses AOL
    acquires or in which it invests and the failure of such
    businesses to perform as expected;




 



     
        •    

    
    the failure to successfully further develop acquired technology
    resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as
    intangible assets;




 



     
        •    

    
    the difficulty of reconciling possibly conflicting or
    overlapping contractual rights and duties; and




 



     
        •    

    
    the impairment of relationships with customers, partners and
    employees as a result of the combination of acquired operations
    and new management personnel.





 


    The failure to successfully address these risks or other
    problems encountered in connection with past or future
    acquisitions and strategic investments could cause AOL to fail
    to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions and
    incur unanticipated liabilities and could harm its business and
    operating results.


 


    New or changing federal, state or international privacy
    legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of AOL’s
    business.  A variety of federal, state and
    international laws govern the collection, use, retention,
    sharing and security of consumer data that AOL uses to operate
    its services and to deliver certain advertisements to its
    customers, as well as the technologies used to collect such
    data. Not only are existing privacy-related laws in these
    jurisdictions evolving and subject to potentially disparate
    interpretation by governmental entities, new legislative
    proposals affecting privacy are now pending at both the federal
    and state level in the U.S. Changes to the interpretation
    of existing law or the adoption of new privacy-related
    requirements could hinder the growth of AOL’s business.
    Also, a failure or perceived failure to comply with such laws or
    requirements or with AOL’s own policies and procedures
    could result in significant liabilities, including a possible
    loss of consumer or investor confidence or a loss of customers
    or advertisers.



    
    38



Table of Contents





    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S CABLE BUSINESS


 


    TWC may continue to face challenges in its systems in
    Dallas, Texas and Los Angeles,
    California.  TWC continues to face challenges
    in the Dallas, Texas and Los Angeles, California systems, most
    of which were acquired in the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions.
    During 2007, TWC undertook a significant integration effort that
    included upgrading the capacity and technical performance of
    these systems to levels that allow the delivery of advanced
    services and features. However, the historical negative
    perception of cable service in Dallas and Los Angeles, due in
    part to the service provided by predecessor cable operators,
    could hinder TWC’s efforts to attract new customers. In
    addition, the competition in Dallas and Los Angeles from Verizon
    and AT&T, is intense. As a result, the Dallas and Los
    Angeles systems could be unable to meaningfully improve their
    financial performance, which could adversely affect TWC’s
    growth, financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Increases in programming costs or an inability to obtain
    popular programming could adversely affect TWC’s
    operations, business or financial
    results.  Video programming costs represent a
    major component of TWC’s expenses and are expected to
    continue to increase, reflecting the increasing cost of
    obtaining desirable programming, particularly sports
    programming, as well as subscriber growth and the expansion of
    service offerings. It is expected that TWC’s video service
    margins will decline over the next few years as programming cost
    increases outpace growth in video revenues. Furthermore, current
    and future programming providers that supply content that is
    desirable to TWC’s subscribers may be unwilling to enter
    into distribution arrangements with TWC on acceptable terms. In
    addition, owners of non-broadcast video programming content may
    enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with TWC’s
    competitors. A failure to carry programming that is attractive
    to TWC’s subscribers could adversely impact TWC’s
    subscription and advertising revenues.


 


    TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could
    negatively affect its business and financial
    results.  TWC’s industry is and will
    continue to be highly competitive. Some of TWC’s principal
    competitors, direct broadcast satellite (or “DBS”)
    operators and incumbent local telephone companies, in
    particular, offer services that provide features and functions
    comparable to the video, high-speed data
    and/or voice
    services that TWC offers, and they are offering them in bundles
    similar to TWC’s. The telephone and DBS companies
    aggressively market their individual products as well as their
    bundles or synthetic bundles (i.e., video services provided
    principally by the DBS operator, and digital subscriber line
    service, traditional phone service and, in some cases, wireless
    service provided by the telephone company). These competitors
    try to distinguish their services from TWC’s by offering
    aggressive promotional pricing, exclusive programming, a bundle
    including their own or an affiliate’s wireless voice
    service
    and/or
    assertions of superior service or offerings.


 


    In addition to these competitors, TWC faces competition on
    individual services from a range of competitors, including, in
    video, SMATV and video delivered to consumers over the Internet;
    in high speed data, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and 3G wireless broadband
    services provided by mobile carriers such as Verizon Wireless,
    broadband over power line providers and municipal Wi-Fi
    services; and in voice, cellular telephone service providers and
    Internet phone providers, such as Vonage, and others.
    Furthermore, TWC operates its cable systems under non-exclusive
    franchises granted by state or local authorities. In some of
    TWC’s operating areas, other operators have overbuilt
    TWC’s systems and offer video, data
    and/or voice
    services in competition with TWC.


 


    Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in
    competition with respect to video, voice or high-speed data
    services could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial
    results and return on capital expenditures due to possible
    increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and
    lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in
    TWC’s growth rates, reduce its revenues, reduce the number
    of its subscribers or reduce its ability to increase penetration
    rates for services. As TWC expands and introduces new and
    enhanced products and services, it may be subject to competition
    from other providers of those products and services, such as
    telecommunications providers, Internet service providers and
    consumer electronics companies, among others. In addition,
    future advances in technology, as well as changes in the
    marketplace and in the regulatory and legislative environments,
    may result in changes to the competitive landscape. TWC cannot
    predict the extent to which competition will affect its future
    business and financial results or return on capital expenditures.


 


    Significant unanticipated increases in the use of
    bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services could increase
    TWC’s costs.  The rising popularity of
    bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services poses special risks
    for TWC’s high-speed data business. Examples of such
    services include
    peer-to-peer
    file sharing services, gaming



    
    39



Table of Contents




    services and the delivery of video via streaming technology and
    by download. If heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive services
    grows beyond TWC’s current expectations, TWC may need to
    invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand the
    bandwidth capacity of its systems or TWC’s customers may
    have a suboptimal experience when using TWC’s high-speed
    data service. In addition, in order to continue to provide
    quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued
    flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond
    to changing consumer uses and demands, to manage bandwidth usage
    efficiently and to make upgrades to TWC’s broadband
    facilities. TWC’s ability to do these things could be
    restricted by legislative efforts to impose so-called “net
    neutrality” requirements on cable operators.


 


    Availability of SDV technology may not enable TWC to
    effectively manage its existing bandwidth.  As
    of December 31, 2007, TWC had deployed switched digital
    video, or SDV, technology to over 1.4 million digital video
    subscribers, and TWC intends to further deploy this technology
    during 2008. SDV allows TWC to save bandwidth by transmitting
    particular programming services only to groups of homes or nodes
    where subscribers are viewing the programming at a particular
    time rather than broadcasting it to all subscriber homes.
    Deploying SDV requires installation of new hardware and software
    at each cable system where it is employed. In addition,
    bandwidth savings are based on the actual viewing habits of
    subscribers. As a result, TWC may experience operational
    difficulties in deploying SDV and may not realize all of the
    efficiencies it anticipates from the deployment of this
    technology. In addition, the FCC may interpret existing
    regulation or introduce new regulation to restrict cable
    operators’ ability to use SDV technology. If TWC
    experiences operational difficulties in deploying SDV, if TWC is
    unable to gain anticipated additional network capacity as a
    result of its SDV deployment plans or if TWC is prohibited by
    regulation from using SDV technology, TWC may have difficulty
    carrying the volume of HDTV channels and other
    bandwidth-intensive traffic carried by competitors and may be
    forced to make costly upgrades to its systems in order to remain
    competitive.


 


    The Internal Revenue Service and state and local tax
    authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the
    Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions or the Exchange, or
    related valuations, and any successful challenge by the Internal
    Revenue Service or state or local tax authorities could
    materially adversely affect Time Warner’s tax profile,
    significantly increase its future cash tax payments and
    significantly reduce its future earnings and cash
    flow.  The Adelphia Acquisition was designed
    to be a fully taxable asset sale, the TWC Redemption was
    designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under
    section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
    amended (the “Tax Code”), the TWE Redemption was
    designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest
    in TWE, and the Exchange was designed as an exchange of
    designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however,
    that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or state
    or local tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the
    “Tax Authorities”) will not challenge one or more of
    such characterizations or the related valuations. Such a
    successful challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially
    adversely affect Time Warner’s tax profile (including its
    ability to recognize the intended tax benefits from these
    transactions), significantly increase its future cash tax
    payments and significantly reduce its future earnings and cash
    flow. The tax consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the
    Redemptions and the Exchange are complex and, in many cases,
    subject to significant uncertainties, including, but not limited
    to, uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state
    and local income tax laws to various transactions and events
    contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation.


 


    TWC may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it increases
    the scale of its video, high-speed data and voice offerings to
    commercial customers.  TWC has sold video and
    high-speed data services to businesses for some time and in 2007
    introduced an
    IP-based
    telephony service, Business Class Phone, geared to small-
    and medium-sized businesses. In order to provide its commercial
    customers with reliable services, TWC may need to increase
    expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and
    personnel. If the services are not sufficiently reliable or TWC
    otherwise fails to meet commercial customers’ expectations,
    its commercial services business could be adversely affected. In
    addition, TWC faces competition from the existing local
    telephone companies as well as from a variety of other national
    and regional business services competitors. If TWC is unable to
    successfully attract and keep commercial customers, its growth,
    financial condition and results of operations may be adversely
    affected.


 


    TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental
    regulation, which could adversely affect its
    business.  TWC’s video and voice services
    are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and
    local levels. In addition, the federal government also has been
    exploring possible regulation of high-speed data services.
    Additional



    
    40



Table of Contents




    regulation, including regulation relating to rates, equipment,
    technologies, programming, levels and types of services, taxes
    and other charges, could have an adverse impact on TWC’s
    services. If the United States Congress (“Congress”)
    or regulators were to disallow the use of certain technologies
    TWC uses today or to mandate the implementation of other
    technologies, TWC’s services and results of operations
    could suffer. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court
    actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and
    in some cases change the rights of cable companies and other
    entities providing video, data and voice services under the
    Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that TWC has
    not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and
    administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business
    operations in areas such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    Cable Franchising.  At the federal level,
    various provisions have been introduced in connection with
    broader Communications Act reform that would streamline the
    video franchising process to facilitate entry by new
    competitors. To date, no such measures have been adopted by
    Congress. In December 2006, the FCC adopted new regulations
    intended to limit the ability of local franchising authorities
    to delay or refuse the grant of competitive franchises, which
    could facilitate entry by TWC’s competitors into areas
    where TWC operates. At the state level, several states,
    including California, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina
    and Texas, have enacted statutes intended to streamline entry by
    additional video competitors, some of which provide more
    favorable treatment to new entrants than to existing providers.
    Similar bills are pending or may be enacted in additional
    states. To the extent federal or state laws or regulations
    facilitate additional competitive entry or create more favorable
    regulatory treatment for new entrants, TWC’s operations
    could be materially and adversely affected.




 



     
        •    

    
    À la carte Video Services.  There has from
    time to time been federal legislative and regulatory interest in
    requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled
    programming services on an à la carte basis, which could
    alter the cost structure of TWC’s services. Currently, no
    such legislation is pending and there are no pending proceedings
    related to à la carte video services at the FCC, although
    the FCC is examining the question of whether programming must be
    sold to multichannel video programming distributors, or MVPDs,
    at the wholesale level on an unbundled basis.




 



     
        •    

    
    Carriage Regulations.  In September 2007, the
    FCC adopted an order that will require cable operators that
    offer at least some analog service (i.e., are not operating
    “all-digital” systems) to provide to subscribers both
    analog and digital feeds of must-carry broadcast stations
    beginning February 18, 2009. If TWC is not able to obtain a
    waiver of this requirement for its smaller systems from the FCC,
    there is a risk that TWC will be forced to invest capital to
    upgrade the systems, sell them or shut them down, or be required
    to drop more popular programming services in order to carry the
    dual feeds. Currently, this obligation is scheduled to terminate
    in February 2012, subject to FCC review. In addition, in
    November 2007, the FCC revised its leased access rules by
    further lowering the permitted rate charged to most leased
    access programmers, as well as adopting new procedural and
    complaint provisions, and the FCC is seeking further comment on
    whether to extend the new rate methodology to program-length
    commercial and sales programming. To the extent the FCC extends
    the new rate methodology to other programming, TWC’s
    revenues could be adversely affected. The FCC also has launched
    a proceeding to examine its substantive and procedural rules for
    program carriage. TWC is unable to predict whether any such
    proceedings will lead to any material changes in existing
    regulations. Any change in the existing carriage regulations
    could restrict TWC’s ability to select programming that is
    attractive to its subscribers.




 



     
        •    

    
    Voice Communications.  Traditional providers of
    voice services generally are subject to significant regulations.
    It is unclear to what extent those regulations (or other
    regulations) apply to providers of nontraditional voice
    services, including TWC’s. In orders over the past several
    years, the FCC subjected nontraditional voice service providers
    to a number of obligations applicable to traditional voice
    service. To the extent that the FCC (or Congress) imposes
    additional burdens, TWC’s operations could be adversely
    affected.





 


    “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could
    limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business
    profitably, to manage its broadband facilities efficiently and
    to make upgrades to those facilities sufficient to respond to
    growing bandwidth usage by its high-speed data
    customers.  Several disparate groups have
    adopted the term “net neutrality” in connection with
    their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules
    that



    
    41



Table of Contents




    could limit the ability of broadband providers to apply
    differential pricing or network management policies to different
    uses of the Internet. Proponents of such regulation also seek to
    prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising
    bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers.
    The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s high-speed data
    customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as
    the amount of high-bandwidth content and the number of
    applications available on the Internet continue to grow. In
    order to continue to provide quality service at attractive
    prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and
    refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses
    and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to make
    upgrades to its broadband facilities. As a result, depending on
    the form it might take, “net neutrality” legislation
    or regulation could impact TWC’s ability to operate its
    high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades
    that may be needed to continue to provide high quality
    high-speed data services and could negatively impact its ability
    to compete effectively. Several petitions have been filed with
    the FCC asking it to adopt regulations in this area; however,
    TWC is unable to predict the likelihood that such regulatory
    proposals will be adopted.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO BOTH THE TIME WARNER
    NETWORKS AND FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES


 


    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments must
    respond to recent and future changes in technology, services and
    standards to remain competitive and continue to increase their
    revenue.  Technology in the video,
    telecommunications and data services used in the entertainment
    industry is changing rapidly, and advances in technology, such
    as
    video-on-demand,
    new video formats and distribution via the Internet, have led to
    alternative methods of product delivery and storage. Certain
    changes in consumer behavior driven by these methods of delivery
    and storage could have a negative effect on the revenue of the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example, devices
    that allow users to view television programs or motion pictures
    from a remote location may cause changes in consumer behavior
    that could negatively affect the subscription revenue of cable
    system and direct broadcast satellite, or DBS, operators and
    telephone companies and therefore have a corresponding negative
    effect on the subscription revenue generated by the Networks
    segment and the licensing revenue generated by the Networks and
    Filmed Entertainment segments. Devices such as digital video
    recorders, or DVRs, that enable users to view television
    programs or motion pictures on a time-delayed basis or allow
    them to fast-forward or skip advertisements or network-based
    deployments of DVR-like technology may cause changes in consumer
    behavior that could adversely affect the advertising revenue of
    the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment and
    have an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue
    generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue
    generated by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original
    programming in syndication and to basic cable networks. In
    addition, further increased use of portable digital devices that
    allow users to view content of their own choice, at a time of
    their choice, while avoiding traditional commercial
    advertisements, could adversely affect such advertising and
    licensing revenue.


 


    Technological developments also pose other challenges for the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments that could adversely
    impact their revenue and competitive position. For example, the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may not have the
    right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute
    their licensed content across new delivery platforms that are
    developed. In addition, technological developments could enable
    third-party owners of programming to bypass traditional content
    aggregators, such as the Turner networks and Home Box Office,
    and deal directly with cable system and DBS operators and
    telephone companies or other businesses that develop to offer
    content to viewers. Such limitations on the ability of the
    segments to distribute their content could have an adverse
    impact on their revenue. Cable system and DBS operators are
    developing new techniques that enable them to transmit more
    channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted
    audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and
    potentially furthering the development of more specialized niche
    audiences. A greater number of options increases competition for
    viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly
    defined audiences may improve their competitive position
    compared to the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments for
    television advertising and for subscription and licensing
    revenue. In addition, traditional audience measures have evolved
    with emerging technologies that can measure viewing audiences
    with improved sensitivity, which has resulted in changes to the
    basis for pricing and guaranteeing the advertising contracts of
    the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment.
    There may be future technical and marketplace developments that
    will result in new audience measurements that may be used as the
    basis for the



    
    42



Table of Contents




    pricing and guaranteeing of such advertising. Any significant
    decrease in measured audiences for advertising on the
    advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment could
    have a significant negative impact on the advertising revenue of
    such networks and the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed
    Entertainment segment as well as the revenue generated by Home
    Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in
    syndication and to basic cable networks. The ability to
    anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis
    and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will
    affect the ability of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment
    segments to continue to grow and increase their revenue.


 


    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments operate in
    highly competitive industries.  The
    Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment businesses
    generate revenue primarily through the production and
    distribution of feature films, television programming and home
    video products, licensing fees, the sale of advertising and
    subscriber fees paid by affiliates. Competition faced by the
    businesses within these segments is intense and comes from many
    different sources. For example:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with
    other television programming services for marketing and
    distribution by cable, satellite and other distribution systems,
    and the production divisions in these segments compete with
    other producers and distributors of television programming for
    air time on broadcast, cable and DBS networks, independent
    commercial television stations and basic and pay cable
    television services.




 



     
        •    

    
    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete for
    viewers’ attention and audience share with other forms of
    programming and entertainment provided to viewers, including
    broadcast networks, local
    over-the-air
    television stations, basic and pay cable television services,
    motion pictures, home video,
    pay-per-view
    and
    video-on-demand
    services, Internet streaming and downloading, Internet sites
    providing social networking and user-generated content,
    interactive games and other online activities and other forms of
    news, information and entertainment.




 



     
        •    

    
    The Networks segment faces competition for programming with
    commercial television networks, independent stations, and basic
    and pay cable television services, some of which have exclusive
    contracts with motion picture studios and independent motion
    picture distributors.




 



     
        •    

    
    The advertising-supported networks and Turner’s Internet
    sites in the Networks segment compete for advertising with
    numerous direct competitors and other media.





 


    The ability of the Company’s Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments to compete successfully depends on many
    factors, including their ability to provide high-quality and
    popular entertainment product and their ability to achieve high
    distribution levels. There has been consolidation in the media
    industry, and the Company’s Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments’ competitors include industry
    participants with interests in other multiple media businesses
    that are often vertically integrated. Such vertical integration
    could have various negative effects on the competitive position
    of the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment
    segments. For example, vertical integration of other television
    networks and television and film production companies could
    adversely impact the Networks segment if it hinders the ability
    of the Networks segment to obtain programming for its networks.
    In addition, if purchasers of programming increasingly purchase
    their programming from production companies with which they are
    affiliated, such vertical integration could have a negative
    effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing
    revenue and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the
    licensing of its original programming in syndication and to
    basic cable networks. There can be no assurance that the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments will be able to
    compete successfully in the future against existing or potential
    competitors, or that competition will not have an adverse effect
    on their businesses or results of operations.


 


    Although piracy poses risks to several of Time
    Warner’s businesses, such risks are especially significant
    for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments due to the
    prevalence of piracy of feature films and television
    programming.  See “Risks Relating to Time
    Warner Generally — Piracy of the Company’s
    feature films, television programming and other content may
    decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the
    Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its
    business and profitability.”


 


    The popularity of the Company’s television programs
    and films and other factors is difficult to predict and could
    lead to fluctuations in the revenue of the Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments.  Television



    
    43



Table of Contents




    program and film production and distribution are inherently
    risky businesses largely because the revenue derived from the
    production and distribution of a television program or motion
    picture, as well as the licensing of rights to the intellectual
    property associated with a program or film, depends primarily on
    its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The
    commercial success of a television program or feature film also
    depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing
    programs and films released at or near the same time, the
    availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure
    time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible
    and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict.
    In the case of the Turner networks, audience sizes are also
    factors that are weighed when determining their advertising
    rates. Poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a
    reduction in pricing and advertiser demand. Further, the
    theatrical success of a motion picture may affect revenue from
    other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and pay
    television programming services, and sales of licensed consumer
    products. Therefore, low public acceptance of the television
    programs or feature films of the Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments may adversely affect their respective
    results of operations.


 


    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments are subject
    to labor interruption.  The Networks and
    Filmed Entertainment segments and certain of their suppliers
    retain the services of writers, directors, actors, trade
    employees and others who are covered by collective bargaining
    agreements and who are involved in the development and
    production of motion pictures and television programs. On
    November 5, 2007, the Writers Guild of America (East and
    West) (the “WGA”) commenced an industry-wide strike
    following the expiration of its collective bargaining agreement
    on October 31, 2007, primarily due to the failure of the
    WGA to come to agreement with content producers over the revenue
    derived from exhibition of filmed entertainment content on new
    media platforms. In February 2007, content producers and the WGA
    reached an agreement on these issues, thereby ending the strike,
    and in January 2007 content producers and the Directors Guild of
    America (the “DGA”) came to an agreement on similar
    issues. The WGA strike has caused delays in the production of
    the segments’ feature films and television programs and the
    development of new television series. These delays could result
    in increased costs when resuming production.


 


    The collective bargaining agreements between content producers
    and the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists
    (“AFTRA”) and the Screen Actors Guild
    (“SAG”) that cover the services of actors on feature
    films and network-prime-time television programs expire on
    June 30, 2008. Industry-wide negotiations with SAG and
    AFTRA, which will address similar new media issues to those
    addressed in the WGA and DGA negotiations, are scheduled to
    commence in March 2008. SAG and AFTRA could take actions in the
    form of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages if agreements
    are not reached before their respective contracts expire. Such
    actions could cause additional delays in the production or the
    release dates of the segments’ feature films and television
    programs, as well as higher costs resulting either from such
    actions or less favorable terms of these agreements on renewal.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
    BUSINESS


 


    DVD sales have been declining, which may adversely affect
    the Filmed Entertainment segment’s growth prospects and
    results of operations.  Several factors,
    including increasing competition for consumer discretionary
    spending, piracy, the maturation of the DVD format, increased
    competition for retailer shelf space and the fragmentation of
    consumer leisure time, are contributing to an industry-wide
    decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally. The
    high definition format war between the HD DVD and Blu-ray
    formats has slowed consumer adoption of those technologies. In
    January 2008, Warner Bros. announced that, starting in June
    2008, it will release its content exclusively in the Blu-ray
    format. Nevertheless, consumer uncertainty may continue to slow
    widespread adoption of a new high definition format or lead
    consumers to forego adopting a high definition DVD format
    altogether, which would adversely affect DVD sales. DVD sales
    also may be affected as consumers increasingly shift from
    consuming physical entertainment products to digital forms of
    entertainment. The filmed entertainment industry faces a
    challenge in managing the transition from physical to digital
    formats in a manner that continues to support the current DVD
    business and its relationships with large retail customers and
    yet meets the growing consumer demand for delivery of filmed
    entertainment in a variety of digital formats. There can be no
    assurance that home video wholesale prices can be maintained at
    current levels, due to aggressive retail pricing, digital
    competition and other factors. A continuing decline in DVD sales
    could have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of
    operations and growth prospects.



    
    44



Table of Contents




    The Filmed Entertainment segment’s strategy includes
    the release of a limited number of “event” films each
    year, and the underperformance of one or more of these films
    could have an adverse effect on the Filmed Entertainment
    segment’s results of operations and financial
    condition.  The Filmed Entertainment segment
    expects to theatrically release a limited number of feature
    films each year that are expected to be “event” or
    “tent-pole” films and that generally have higher
    production and marketing costs than the other films released
    during the year. The underperformance of one of these films can
    have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of
    operations in both the year of release and in the future.
    Historically, there has been a correlation between domestic box
    office success and international box office success, as well as
    a correlation between box office success and success in the
    subsequent distribution channels of home video and television.
    If the segment’s films fail to achieve box office success,
    the results of operations and financial condition of the Filmed
    Entertainment segment could be adversely affected. Further,
    there can be no assurance that these historical correlations
    will continue in the future.


 


    The costs of producing and marketing feature films have
    increased and may increase in the future, which may make it more
    difficult for a film to generate a
    profit.  The production and marketing of
    feature films require substantial capital, and the costs of
    producing and marketing feature films have generally increased
    in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the
    future, which may make it more difficult for the segment’s
    films to generate a profit. As production and marketing costs
    increase, it creates a greater need to generate revenue
    internationally or from other media, such as home video,
    television and new media.


 


    Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films
    could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the
    amortization of film production costs.  The
    Filmed Entertainment segment is required to amortize capitalized
    film production costs over the expected revenue streams as it
    recognizes revenue from the associated films. The amount of film
    production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on
    how much future revenue the segment expects to receive from each
    film. Unamortized film production costs are evaluated for
    impairment each reporting period on a
    film-by-film
    basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to
    recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but
    unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production
    costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter,
    if the segment lowers its forecast with respect to total
    anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would
    be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs.
    Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely
    impact the operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment.


 


    A decrease in demand for television product could
    adversely affect Warner Bros.’
    revenues.   Warner Bros. is a leading supplier
    of television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand
    for Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the
    launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the
    number of original programs ordered by the networks and the
    per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near
    term. In addition, such a decrease in demand could lead to a
    reduction in syndication revenues in the future. Various factors
    may increase the risk of such a decrease in demand, including
    station group consolidation and vertical integration between
    station groups and broadcast networks, as well as the vertical
    integration between television production studios and broadcast
    networks, which can increase the networks’ reliance on
    their in-house or affiliated studios. In addition, the failure
    of ratings for the programming to meet expectations and the
    shift of viewers and advertisers away from network television to
    other entertainment and information outlets could adversely
    affect the amount of original programming ordered by networks
    and the amount they are willing to pay for such programming.
    Local television stations may face loss of viewership and an
    accompanying loss of advertising revenue as viewers move to
    other entertainment outlets, which may negatively impact the
    segment’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in
    syndication that it has received in the past. Finally, the
    increasing popularity of local television content in
    international markets also could result in decreased demand,
    fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and
    syndication revenue for U.S. television content.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESS


 


    The loss of affiliation agreements could cause the revenue
    of the Networks segment to decline in any given period, and
    further consolidation of multichannel video programming
    distributors could adversely affect the
    segment.  The Networks segment depends on
    affiliation agreements with cable system and DBS operators and
    telephone companies for the distribution of its networks and
    services, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation
    agreements will be renewed in the future on terms that are
    acceptable to the Networks segment. The



    
    45



Table of Contents




    renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms may adversely
    affect the segment’s results of operations. In addition,
    the loss of any one of these arrangements representing a
    significant number of subscribers or the loss of carriage on the
    most widely penetrated programming tiers could reduce the
    distribution of the segment’s programming, which may
    adversely affect its advertising and subscription revenue. The
    loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other
    marketing opportunities with any distributor of the
    segment’s networks also could reduce subscription revenue.
    In addition, further consolidation among cable system and DBS
    operators has provided greater negotiating power to such
    distributors, and increased vertical integration of such
    distributors could adversely affect the segment’s ability
    to maintain or obtain distribution
    and/or
    marketing for its networks and services on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all.


 


    The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to
    popular programming or create popular original programming could
    adversely affect the segment’s
    revenue.  The Networks segment obtains a
    significant portion of its popular programming from third
    parties. For example, some of Turner’s most widely viewed
    programming, including sports programming, is made available
    based on programming rights of varying durations that it has
    negotiated with third parties. Home Box Office also enters into
    commitments to acquire rights to feature films and other
    programming for its HBO and Cinemax pay television programming
    services from feature film producers and other suppliers for
    varying durations. Competition for popular programming licensed
    from third parties is intense, and the businesses in the segment
    may be outbid by their competitors for the rights to new popular
    programming or in connection with the renewal of popular
    programming they currently license. In addition, renewal costs
    could substantially exceed the existing contract costs.
    Alternatively, third parties from which the segment obtains
    programming, such as professional sports teams or leagues, may
    create their own networks.


 


    The operating results of the Networks segment also fluctuate
    with the popularity of its programming with the public, which is
    difficult to predict. Revenue from the segment’s businesses
    is therefore partially dependent on the segment’s ability
    to develop strong brand awareness and to target key areas of the
    television viewing audience, including both newer demographics
    and preferences for particular genres, as well as its ability to
    continue to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes
    and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Networks segment
    derives a portion of its revenue from the exploitation of the
    Company’s library of feature films, animated titles and
    television titles. If the content of the Company’s
    programming libraries ceases to be of interest to audiences or
    is not continuously replenished with popular original content,
    the revenue of the Networks segment could be adversely affected.


 


    Increases in the costs of programming licenses and other
    significant costs may adversely affect the gross margins of the
    Networks segment.  As described above, the
    Networks segment licenses a significant amount of its
    programming, such as motion pictures, television series, and
    sports events, from movie studios, television production
    companies and sports organizations. For example, Home Box Office
    relies on film studios for a significant portion of its content.
    In addition, the Turner networks have obtained the rights to
    produce and broadcast significant sports events such as the NBA
    play-offs, the Major League Baseball play-offs and a series of
    NASCAR races. If the level of demand for quality content exceeds
    the amount of quality content available, the networks may have
    to pay significantly higher licensing costs, which in turn will
    exert greater pressure on the segment to offset such increased
    costs with higher advertising
    and/or
    subscription revenue. There can be no assurance that the
    Networks segment will be able to renew existing or enter into
    additional license agreements for its programming and, if so, if
    it will be able to do so on terms that are similar to existing
    terms. There also can be no assurance that it will be able to
    obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses over new
    distribution platforms on acceptable terms. If it is unable to
    obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable
    terms, the gross margins of the Networks segment may be
    adversely affected.


 


    The Networks segment also produces programming, and it incurs
    costs for new show concepts and all types of creative talent,
    including actors, writers and producers. The segment incurs
    additional significant costs, such as newsgathering and
    marketing costs. Unless they are offset by increased revenue,
    increases in the costs of creative talent or in production,
    newsgathering or marketing costs may lead to decreased profits
    at the Networks segment.


 


    The maturity of the U.S. video services business,
    together with rising retail rates, distributors’ focus on
    selling alternative products and other factors, could adversely
    affect the future revenue growth of the Networks
    segment.  The U.S. video services
    business generally is a mature business, which may have a
    negative impact on



    
    46



Table of Contents




    the ability of the Networks segment to achieve incremental
    growth in its advertising and subscription revenues. In
    addition, programming distributors may increase their resistance
    to wholesale programming price increases, and programming
    distributors are increasingly focused on selling services other
    than video, such as high-speed data and voice services. Also,
    consumers’ basic cable rates have continued to increase,
    which could cause consumers to cancel their cable or satellite
    service subscriptions. The inability of the Networks segment to
    implement measures to maintain future revenue growth may
    adversely affect its business.


 


    Changes in U.S. or foreign communications laws or
    other regulations may have an adverse effect on the business of
    the Networks segment.  The multichannel video
    programming and distribution industries in the United States, as
    well as cable networks, are regulated by U.S. federal laws
    and regulations issued and administered by various federal
    agencies, including the FCC. The U.S. Congress and the FCC
    currently are considering, and may in the future adopt, new
    laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of
    matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the
    operations of the Networks segment. For example, policymakers
    have expressed interest in exploring whether cable operators
    should offer “à la carte” programming to
    subscribers on a
    network-by-network
    basis or provide “family-friendly” tiers, and a number
    of cable operators, including TWC, have voluntarily agreed to
    offer family tiers. The FCC also is examining the manner in
    which some programming distributors package or bundle services
    sold to distributors; the same conduct is at issue in
    industry-wide antitrust litigation pending in Federal court in
    Los Angeles, in which the plaintiffs seek to prohibit wholesale
    bundling practices prospectively. The unbundling or tiering of
    program services may reduce the distribution of certain cable
    networks, thereby creating the risk of reduced viewership and
    increased marketing expenses, and may affect the segment’s
    ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising
    dollars. Policymakers have also raised concerns about the
    potential impact on childhood obesity rates of food and beverage
    advertising during children’s television programming. Any
    decline in subscribers could lead to a decrease in the
    segment’s advertising and subscription revenues. The
    Networks segment is unable to predict whether any new or revised
    regulations will result from these activities.


 


    There also has been consideration of the extension of indecency
    rules applicable to
    over-the-air
    broadcasters to cable and satellite programming and stricter
    enforcement of existing laws and rules. If such an extension or
    attempt to increase enforcement occurred and were upheld, the
    content of the Networks segment could be subject to additional
    regulation, which could affect subscriber and viewership levels.
    Moreover, the determination of whether content is indecent is
    inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to
    predict whether particular content would violate indecency
    standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual
    programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC’s indecency
    rules adds uncertainty to the ability of the Networks segment to
    comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could
    lead to sanctions that may adversely affect the businesses and
    results of operations of the Networks segment.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS


 


    The Publishing segment faces significant competition for
    advertising and audience.  The Publishing
    segment faces significant competition from several direct
    competitors and other media, including the Internet. The
    Publishing segment’s magazine and website operations
    compete for circulation and audience with numerous other
    magazine and website publishers and other media. The Publishing
    segment’s magazine and website operations also compete with
    other magazine and website publishers and other media for
    advertising directed at the general public and at more focused
    demographic groups. Time Inc.’s direct marketing operations
    compete with other direct marketers across all media, including
    the Internet, for the consumer’s attention.


 


    Competition for advertising revenue is primarily based on
    advertising rates, the nature and size of audience (including
    the circulation and readership of magazines and the number of
    unique visitors to and page views of websites), audience
    response to advertisers’ products and services and the
    effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive factors in
    magazine and website publishing include product positioning,
    editorial quality, price and customer service, which impact
    audience, circulation revenue and advertising revenue. The
    magazine and website publishing businesses present few barriers
    to entry and many new magazines and websites are launched
    annually across multiple sectors. In recent years competitors
    have launched
    and/or
    repositioned many magazines and websites, primarily in the
    celebrity, women’s service and business sectors, that
    compete directly with People, InStyle, Real Simple, Fortune
    and other Publishing segment magazines, as well as the
    segment’s websites. This has



    
    47



Table of Contents




    resulted in increased competition, especially at newsstands and
    mass retailers and particularly for celebrity and entertainment
    magazines. The Company anticipates that it will face continuing
    competition from these new competitors, and it is possible that
    additional competitors may enter the magazine and website
    publishing businesses and further intensify competition, which
    could have an adverse impact on the segment’s revenue. In
    addition, websites that charge users for access may shift to a
    free-to-user advertising model, which could negatively affect
    the competitive position of the segment’s websites.


 


    The Publishing segment has in recent years made various changes
    in its magazine circulation practices and consequently faces new
    challenges in identifying new subscribers and increasing
    circulation, which could have an adverse impact not only on its
    circulation revenue but also on its advertising revenue.


 


    Although the shift in consumer habits
    and/or
    advertising expenditures from traditional to online media poses
    risks to several of the Company’s businesses, such risks
    are particularly significant for the Company’s Publishing
    segment because a substantial portion of the segment’s
    revenue is derived from the sale of
    advertising.  See “Risks Relating to Time
    Warner Generally — The introduction and increased
    popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of
    news, entertainment and other information and the resulting
    shift in consumer habits
    and/or
    advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could
    adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing,
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments.”


 


    The Publishing segment could face increased costs and
    business disruption resulting from instability in the newsstand
    distribution channel.  The Publishing segment
    operates a national distribution business that relies on
    wholesalers to distribute magazines published by the Publishing
    segment and other publishers to newsstands and other retail
    outlets. Due to industry consolidation, four wholesalers
    represent approximately 80% of the wholesale magazine
    distribution business in the U.S. There is a possibility of
    further consolidation among these wholesalers
    and/or
    insolvency of one or more of these wholesalers. Should there be
    a disruption in this wholesale channel it could adversely affect
    the Publishing segment’s operating income and cash flow,
    including temporarily impeding the Publishing segment’s
    ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace.


 


    The Publishing segment’s operating income could
    decrease as a result of rising paper
    costs.  The Publishing segment’s
    principal raw material is paper, and paper prices have
    fluctuated over the past several years. In addition, the paper
    industry is undergoing certain consolidation and ownership
    changes which could impact paper prices. Accordingly, if there
    are significant unanticipated increases in paper prices and the
    Publishing segment is not able to offset these increases, they
    could have a negative impact on the segment’s operating
    income.


 


    The Publishing segment faces risks relating to various
    regulatory and legislative matters, including changes in Audit
    Bureau of Circulations rules and possible changes in regulation
    of direct marketing.  The Publishing
    segment’s magazine subscription and direct marketing
    activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and the states
    under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting unfair or
    deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas of marketing activity
    are also subject to specific federal statutes and rules, such as
    the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Children’s
    Online Privacy Protection Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
    (relating to financial privacy), the FTC Mail or Telephone Order
    Merchandise Rule and the FTC Telemarketing Sales Rule. Other
    statutes and rules also regulate conduct in areas such as
    privacy, data security and telemarketing. New statutes and
    regulations are adopted frequently. In addition, the Publishing
    segment’s magazine subscription activities are subject to
    the rules of the Audit Bureau of Circulations. New rules, as
    well as new interpretations of existing rules, are periodically
    adopted by the Audit Bureau of Circulations and could lead to
    changes in the segment’s magazine circulation practices
    that could have a negative effect on the segment’s ability
    to generate new magazine subscriptions, meet rate bases and
    support advertising sales.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1B