Item 1A, “Risk
    Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Caution Concerning Forward-Looking
    Statements.”


 



    Available
    Information and Website


 


    The Company’s annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”),
    are available free of charge on the Company’s website at
    www.timewarner.com as soon as reasonably practicable
    after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC.


 



    NETWORKS


 


    The Company’s Networks business consists principally of
    domestic and international networks and premium pay television
    programming services. The networks owned by Turner Broadcasting
    System, Inc. (“Turner”), which are described below,
    are collectively referred to as the “Turner Networks.”
    Premium pay television programming





    
    1



Table of Contents





    consists of the multi channel HBO and Cinemax pay television
    programming services (collectively, the “Home Box Office
    Services”) operated by Home Box Office, Inc. (“Home
    Box Office”).


 


    The programming of the Turner Networks and the Home Box Office
    Services (collectively, the “Networks”) is distributed
    via cable systems, satellite distribution systems, telephone
    companies and other distribution technologies.


 


    Turner generates revenues principally from providing programming
    to cable system operators, satellite distribution services,
    telephone companies and other distributors (known as affiliates)
    that have contracted to receive and distribute this programming
    and from the sale of advertising (other than Turner Classic
    Movies and Boomerang, which sell advertising only in certain
    international markets). Turner’s agreements with its
    affiliates are typically long-term arrangements that provide for
    annual service fee increases and have fee arrangements that are
    generally related to the number of subscribers served by the
    affiliate. Turner’s advertising revenues consist of
    consumer advertising, which is sold primarily on a national
    basis in the U.S. and on a pan-regional or
    local-language
    feed basis outside the U.S. Advertising contracts generally
    have terms of one year or less. Advertising revenues are
    generated from a wide variety of advertising categories,
    including motion picture, food and beverage, financial and
    business services, pharmaceuticals and medical, restaurants,
    automotive, retail and telecommunications. In the U.S.,
    advertising revenues are a function of the size and demographics
    of the audience delivered, the “CPM,” which is the
    cost per thousand viewers delivered, and the number of units of
    time sold. Units sold and CPMs are influenced by the
    quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the audience of
    each network, the perceived quality of the network and of the
    particular programming, as well as overall advertiser demand in
    the marketplace. Outside the U.S., advertising is generally not
    sold based on audience delivery, but rather is sold at a fixed
    rate for the spot.


 


    Home Box Office generates revenues principally from providing
    programming to affiliates that have contracted to receive and
    distribute such programming to subscribers who are generally
    free to cancel their subscriptions at any time. Home Box
    Office’s agreements with its affiliates are typically
    long-term arrangements that provide for annual service fee
    increases and retail promotion activities and have fee
    arrangements that are generally related to the number of
    subscribers served by the affiliate. The Home Box Office
    Services and their affiliates engage in ongoing marketing and
    promotional activities to retain existing subscribers and
    acquire new subscribers. Home Box Office also derives revenues
    from its original films, mini-series and series through the sale
    of DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, as well as from the licensing of
    original programming in syndication and to basic cable channels.


 



    Turner
    Networks


 



    Domestic
    Networks


 


    Turner’s networks in the U.S. consist of entertainment
    and news networks. Turner’s entertainment networks include
    TBS, which reached approximately 100.1 million
    U.S. television households as reported by Nielsen Media
    Research (“U.S. television households”) as of
    December 2009; TNT, which reached approximately
    99.1 million U.S. television households as of December
    2009; Cartoon Network (including adult swim, its
    overnight block of contemporary animation aimed at young
    adults), which reached approximately 98.3 million
    U.S. television households as of December 2009; truTV,
    which reached approximately 92.2 million
    U.S. television households as of December 2009; Turner
    Classic Movies, a commercial-free network; and Boomerang. HD
    feeds of TBS, TNT, Cartoon Network, truTV and Turner Classic
    Movies are made available to affiliates. Programming for these
    entertainment networks is derived, in part, from the
    Company’s film,
    made-for-television
    and animation libraries to which Turner or other divisions of
    the Company own the copyrights, sports programming and other
    licensed programming, including syndicated television series and
    network movie premieres.


 


    For its sports programming, Turner has a programming rights
    agreement with the National Basketball Association
    (“NBA”) to produce and telecast a certain number of
    regular season and playoff games on TNT through the
    2015-16
    season. In addition, Turner has a separate agreement with the
    NBA, effective through the
    2015-16
    season, under which Turner and the NBA jointly manage a
    portfolio of the NBA’s digital businesses, NBA TV and NBA
    League Pass. Turner also has a programming rights agreement with
    Major League Baseball to produce and telecast a certain number
    of regular season and playoff games on TBS through the 2013
    season. In addition,





    
    2



Table of Contents





    Turner has secured rights to produce and telecast certain NASCAR
    Sprint Cup Series races through 2014 and certain Professional
    Golfers’ Association (“PGA”) events through 2019.


 


    Turner’s CNN and HLN networks,
    24-hour per
    day cable television news services, reached approximately
    100.2 million and 99.3 million U.S. television
    households, respectively, as of December 2009. An HD feed of CNN
    also is made available to affiliates. As of December 31,
    2009, CNN managed 45 news bureaus and editorial operations, of
    which 13 are located in the U.S. In 2009, CNN won a Peabody
    Award for its multi-platform coverage of the 2008 presidential
    primary campaigns and debates.


 



    International
    Networks


 


    Turner’s entertainment and news networks are distributed to
    multiple distribution platforms such as cable and Internet
    Protocol Television (IPTV) systems, satellite platforms, mobile
    operators and broadcasters for delivery to households, hotels
    and other viewers around the world.


 


    Turner distributes approximately 87 region-specific versions and
    local-language
    feeds of Cartoon Network, Boomerang, Turner Classic Movies, TNT
    and other entertainment networks in approximately 180 countries
    around the world. Turner distributes Space, Infinito, I-Sat,
    Fashion TV, HTV and Much Music primarily in Latin America. These
    entertainment networks air movies and series, documentaries,
    fashion and lifestyle content and music videos. In addition,
    Turner has the sales representation rights for nine networks
    operating principally in Latin America that are owned by third
    parties. In India and certain other South Asian territories, it
    distributes Pogo, an entertainment network for children. Turner
    India also distributes HBO in India and the Maldives. In March
    2009, Turner, together with Warner Bros., launched WB, an
    English language entertainment channel in India that features
    programming licensed from Warner Bros.


 


    In January 2009, Turner launched TNT Serie, a German language
    version of TNT, in Germany. In April 2009, Turner launched truTV
    in Latin America as an English language channel with Spanish and
    Portuguese subtitles. In September 2009, a local language truTV
    branded block was launched with an Italian broadcaster. In April
    2009, Turner launched BOING in Spain as a block of kids
    programming on an existing network. In 2010, Turner plans to
    launch truTV in Asia, and in January 2010 Turner Latin America
    acquired the sales representation rights to the Warner Bros.
    channel in Latin America.


 


    In August 2009, Turner acquired Japan Image Communications Co.,
    Ltd., a Japanese pay television business. In December 2009,
    Turner entered into an agreement to acquire a majority stake in
    NDTV Imagine Limited, which owns a Hindi general entertainment
    channel in India. The transaction is expected to close during
    the first quarter of 2010 and is subject to customary closing
    conditions, including the receipt of Indian regulatory approval.


 


    CNN International, an English language news network, is
    distributed in more than 190 countries and territories as of the
    end of 2009. CNN International has network feeds in five
    separate regions: Europe/Middle East/Africa, Asia Pacific, South
    Asia, Latin America and North America. HLN is distributed in
    Canada, the Caribbean, parts of Latin America and the Asia
    Pacific region. CNN en Espaňol, a separate Spanish language
    news network, is distributed primarily in Latin America.


 


    In a number of regions, Turner has launched
    local-language
    versions of its channels through joint ventures with local
    partners. These include CNN+, a Spanish language
    24-hour news
    network distributed in Spain; CNN Turk, a Turkish language
    24-hour news
    network available in Turkey and the Netherlands; Cartoon Network
    Turkey and TNT Turkey, both Turkish language channels
    distributed in Turkey; CNN Chile, a Spanish language
    24-hour news
    network distributed in Chile; CNNj, an
    English-with-Japanese-translation news service in Japan; Cartoon
    Network Korea, a
    local-language
    24-hour
    channel for kids; and BOING, an Italian language
    24-hour kids
    animation network. CNN content is distributed through CNN-IBN, a
    co-branded,
    24-hour,
    English language general news and current affairs channel in
    India. Turner also has interests in a Mandarin language general
    entertainment service in China (CETV).


 



    Websites
    and Digital Applications and Initiatives


 


    Turner operates various websites that generate revenues
    primarily from commercial advertising. CNN has multiple
    websites, including CNN.com and several localized
    editions that operate in Turner’s international markets.





    
    3



Table of Contents





    CNN also operates CNNMoney.com in collaboration with Time
    Inc.’s Money and Fortune magazines. Turner
    operates the NASCAR websites NASCAR.com and NASCAR.com
    en Espaňol under an agreement with NASCAR that runs
    through 2014, and the PGA’s and PGA Tour’s websites,
    PGA.com and PGATour.com, respectively, under
    agreements with the PGA and the PGA Tour that run through 2019.
    In addition, Turner operates NBA.com under an agreement
    with the NBA that runs through 2016. Turner also operates
    CartoonNetwork.com, as well as 45 international websites
    affiliated with the regional children’s services feeds.
    Turner also published several Apps in Apple Inc.’s iTunes
    App Store, including CNN Mobile. In 2010, Turner intends
    to continue to partner with affiliates on trials and commercials
    launches of online and on demand access to Turner’s content
    through services provided by such affiliates in accordance with
    the broad principles established by the initiative to deliver TV
    Everywhere.


 



    Home Box
    Office


 


    HBO, operated by Home Box Office, is the nation’s most
    widely distributed premium pay television service. Including
    HBO’s sister service, Cinemax, the Home Box Office Services
    had approximately 41 million domestic subscriptions as of
    December 31, 2009. Both HBO and Cinemax are made available
    in HD on a number of multiplex channels. Home Box Office also
    offers HBO and Cinemax On Demand, subscription products that
    enable digital cable and telephone company customers who
    subscribe to the HBO and Cinemax services to view programs at
    the time they choose. In 2009, Home Box Office also began
    limited tests of HBO and Cinemax on demand subscription products
    delivered by means of broadband networks, which it intends to
    expand and make available to subscribers of the HBO and Cinemax
    services via certain of HBO’s affiliates in 2010.


 


    A major portion of the programming on HBO and Cinemax consists
    of recently released, uncut and uncensored theatrical motion
    pictures. Home Box Office’s practice has been to negotiate
    licensing agreements of varying duration with major motion
    picture studios and independent producers and distributors in
    order to ensure continued access to such films. These agreements
    typically grant pay television exhibition rights to recently
    released and certain older films owned by the particular studio,
    producer or distributor in exchange for negotiated fees, which
    may be a function of, among other things, the box office
    performances of the films.


 


    HBO is also defined by its award-winning original dramatic and
    comedy series, such as True Blood, The Sopranos,
    Entourage and Curb Your Enthusiasm, as well as
    movies, mini-series, boxing matches and sports news programs,
    comedy specials, family programming and documentaries. In 2009,
    among other awards, HBO won 21 Primetime Emmys — the
    most of any network — as well as 8 Sports Emmys. In
    addition, HBO won five Peabody Awards, including awards for the
    comedy series Entourage and the miniseries John
    Adams.


 


    Home Box Office also generates revenues from the exploitation of
    its original programming through multiple distribution outlets.
    HBO Home Entertainment markets a variety of HBO’s original
    programming on DVD and Blu-ray Discs. HBO licenses its original
    series, such as The Sopranos, Sex and the City,
    Entourage and Curb Your Enthusiasm, to basic cable
    channels and has also licensed Sex and the City,
    Entourage and Curb Your Enthusiasm in syndication.
    The Home Box Office-produced show Everybody Loves
    Raymond, which aired for nine seasons on broadcast
    television, is currently in syndication as well. Home Box Office
    content is also distributed by Apple Inc. through its online
    iTunes stores in the U.S. and various international
    regions, as well as on various mobile telephone platforms. In
    addition, HBO-branded services are distributed in more than 50
    countries in Latin America, Asia and Central Europe, primarily
    through various pay television joint ventures. In 2007 and 2008,
    Home Box Office acquired additional interests in HBO Asia and
    HBO South Asia and additional interests in HBO Latin America
    Group. In January 2010, Home Box Office purchased the remainder
    of its partners’ interests in HBO Central Europe.


 



    The
    CW


 


    Launched at the beginning of the Fall 2006 broadcast season, The
    CW broadcast network is a
    50-50 joint
    venture between Warner Bros. and CBS Corporation
    (“CBS”). The CW’s schedule includes, among other
    things, a five night-10 hour primetime lineup with
    programming such as Gossip Girl, 90210, Melrose
    Place, One Tree Hill, Life Unexpected, America’s Next Top
    Model, Vampire Diaries, Smallville and Supernatural,
    as well as a
    five-hour
    block of animated children’s programming on Saturday
    mornings. As of December 31, 2009, The CW was carried





    
    4



Table of Contents





    nationally by affiliated television stations covering 93% of
    U.S. television households. Among the affiliates of The CW
    are 13 stations owned by Tribune Broadcasting and 9 stations
    owned by CBS.


 



    Central
    Media Enterprises Ltd.


 


    During 2009, the Company acquired an approximately 31% interest
    in Central Media Enterprises Ltd., a publicly-traded
    broadcasting company that operates leading networks in seven
    Central and Eastern European countries.


 



    Competition


 


    The Networks compete with other television programming services
    for marketing and distribution by cable, satellite and other
    distribution systems. The Networks also compete for
    viewers’ attention and audience share with all other forms
    of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast
    networks, local
    over-the-air
    television stations, other pay and basic cable television
    services, motion pictures, home video,
    pay-per-view
    and
    video-on-demand
    services, online activities (including Internet streaming and
    downloading), and other forms of news, information and
    entertainment. In addition, the Networks face competition for
    programming from those same commercial television networks,
    independent stations, and pay and basic cable television
    services, some of which have exclusive contracts with motion
    picture studios and independent motion picture distributors. The
    Turner Networks and Turner’s websites compete for
    advertising budgets with numerous direct competitors and other
    media.


 


    The Networks’ production divisions compete with other
    production companies for the services of producers, directors,
    writers, actors and others and for the acquisition of scripts.


 



    FILMED
    ENTERTAINMENT


 


    The Company’s Filmed Entertainment businesses produce and
    distribute theatrical motion pictures, television shows,
    animation and other programming and videogames, distribute home
    video product, and license rights to the Company’s feature
    films, television programming and characters. All of the
    foregoing businesses are principally conducted by various
    subsidiaries and affiliates of Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.,
    known collectively as the Warner Bros. Entertainment Group
    (“Warner Bros.”), including New Line Cinema LLC
    (“New Line”). The New Line business has been operated
    as a unit of Warner Bros. since July 2008 and as a subsidiary
    since January 2010.


 



    Feature
    Films


 



    Warner
    Bros.


 


    Warner Bros. produces feature films both wholly on its own and
    under co-financing arrangements with others, and also
    distributes its films and completed films produced by others.
    Warner Bros.’ feature films are produced under the Warner
    Bros. Pictures and Castle Rock banners. The terms of Warner
    Bros.’ agreements with independent producers and other
    entities are separately negotiated and vary depending on the
    production, the amount and type of financing by Warner Bros.,
    the media and territories covered, the distribution term and
    other factors.


 


    Warner Bros.’ strategy focuses on offering a diverse slate
    of films with a mix of genres, talent and budgets that includes
    several “event” movies per year. In response to the
    high cost of producing theatrical films, Warner Bros. has
    entered into certain film co-financing arrangements with other
    companies, decreasing its financial risk while in most cases
    retaining substantially all worldwide distribution rights.
    During 2009, Warner Bros. released 18 original motion pictures
    for worldwide theatrical exhibition, including Harry Potter
    and the Half-Blood Prince, The Hangover, Sherlock
    Holmes, The Blind Side and Invictus. Of the
    total 2009 releases, two were wholly financed by Warner Bros.
    and 16 were financed with or by others.


 


    Warner Bros. has co-financing arrangements with Village Roadshow
    Pictures and Legendary Pictures, LLC. Additionally, Warner Bros.
    has an exclusive distribution arrangement with Alcon
    Entertainment for distribution of





    
    5



Table of Contents





    all of Alcon’s motion pictures in domestic and certain
    international territories. Warner Bros. also has an exclusive
    distribution arrangement with Dark Castle Holdings, LLC, under
    which Warner Bros. will distribute 15 Dark Castle feature films
    in the U.S. and, generally, in all international
    territories.


 


    Warner Bros. distributes feature films for theatrical exhibition
    to more than 125 international territories. In 2009, Warner
    Bros. released internationally 11
    English-language
    motion pictures and 33
    local-language
    films that it either produced or acquired.


 


    After their theatrical exhibition, Warner Bros. licenses its
    newly produced films, as well as films from its library, for
    distribution on broadcast, cable, satellite and pay television
    channels both domestically and internationally, and it also
    distributes its films on DVD and Blu-ray Discs and in various
    digital formats.


 



    New
    Line


 


    New Line produces feature films, which are distributed by Warner
    Bros. New Line’s strategy, like Warner Bros.’, focuses
    on offering a diverse slate of films with an emphasis on
    building and leveraging franchises. During 2009, New Line
    released eight films, including He’s Just Not That Into
    You, The Final Destination, Friday the
    13th

    and Ghosts of Girlfriends Past.


 



    Home
    Entertainment


 


    Warner Home Video (“WHV”), a division of Warner Bros.
    Home Entertainment Inc. (“WBHE”), distributes DVDs and
    Blu-ray Discs containing filmed entertainment product produced
    or otherwise acquired by the Company’s various
    content-producing subsidiaries and divisions, including Warner
    Bros. Pictures, Warner Bros. Television, New Line, Home Box
    Office and Turner. Significant WHV releases during 2009 included
    Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, The Hangover
    and Gran Torino. WHV produces and distributes DVDs
    and Blu-ray Discs from new content generated by the Company as
    well as from the Company’s extensive filmed entertainment
    library of thousands of feature films, television titles and
    animated titles. WHV also distributes other companies’
    product, including DVDs and Blu-ray Discs for BBC, Sesame Street
    and national sports leagues in the U.S., and has similar
    distribution relationships with producers outside the U.S.


 


    WHV sells and licenses its product for resale in the
    U.S. and in major international territories to retailers
    and wholesalers through its own sales force, with warehousing
    and fulfillment handled by third parties. DVD and Blu-ray Disc
    product is replicated by third parties, with replication for the
    U.S., Canada, Europe and Mexico provided for under a long-term
    contract. In some countries, WHV’s product is distributed
    through licensees.


 


    Warner Premiere, a division of Warner Specialty Films Inc.
    established in 2006, develops and produces filmed entertainment
    that is distributed initially through DVD and Blu-ray Disc sales
    (“direct-to-video”)
    and short-form content that is distributed through online and
    wireless platforms. Warner Premiere produced 8
    direct-to-video
    titles in 2009. In addition, in 2009, Warner Premiere Digital
    produced several short form animated series such as Superman:
    Red Son and Batman: Black and White Motion Comics,
    which incorporate various animation features into comic book
    artwork.


 



    Television


 


    Warner Bros. Television Group (“WBTVG”) is one of the
    world’s leading suppliers of television programming,
    distributing programming in the U.S. as well as in more
    than 200 international territories and in more than
    45 languages. WBTVG both develops and produces new
    television series,
    made-for-television
    movies, reality-based entertainment shows and animation programs
    and also licenses programming from the Warner Bros. library for
    exhibition on media all over the world. In August 2009, Warner
    Bros. International Television Distribution Inc. announced the
    formation of a new production unit to create locally-produced
    versions of the studio’s programs and develop original
    local programming.


 


    WBTVG programming is primarily produced by Warner Bros.
    Television (“WBTV”), a division of WB Studio
    Enterprises Inc. that produces primetime dramatic and comedy
    programming for the major broadcast networks and for cable
    networks; Warner Horizon Television Inc. (“Warner
    Horizon”), which specializes in unscripted





    
    6



Table of Contents





    programming for broadcast networks as well as scripted and
    unscripted programming for cable networks; and Telepictures
    Productions Inc. (“Telepictures”), which specializes
    in reality-based and talk/variety series for the syndication and
    daytime markets. For the
    2009-10
    season, WBTV is producing, among others, Smallville and
    Gossip Girl for The CW and Two and a Half Men, The Big
    Bang Theory, Fringe, and The Mentalist for
    other broadcast networks. WBTV also produces original series for
    cable networks, including The Closer and Nip/Tuck.
    Warner Horizon produces the primetime reality series The
    Bachelor and America’s Best Dance Crew.
    Telepictures produces first-run syndication shows such as
    Extra, and the talk shows The Ellen DeGeneres Show
    and Tyra, TMZ, a series based on the top
    entertainment website TMZ.com, and Lopez Tonight
    for TBS.


 


    Warner Bros. Animation Inc. (“WBAI”) creates, develops
    and produces contemporary animated television programming and
    original
    made-for-DVD
    releases, including the Scooby-Doo series. WBAI also
    oversees the creative use of, and production of animated
    programming based on, classic animated characters from Warner
    Bros., including Looney Tunes, and from the Hanna-Barbera
    and DC Comics libraries.


 



    Interactive
    Videogames


 


    Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment (“WBIE”), a
    division of WBHE, develops, publishes and licenses interactive
    videogames for a variety of platforms based on Warner Bros. and
    DC Comics properties, as well as original game properties. In
    2009, WBIE continued to expand its games publishing business by
    increasing its development capabilities, entering into new
    videogame distribution agreements and further leveraging
    WBHE’s global distribution infrastructure. Significant
    publishing releases in 2009 included Lego Indiana Jones 2:
    The Adventure Continues, F.E.A.R. 2: Project Origin, LEGO
    Rock Band and Scribblenauts. WBIE also co-published or
    distributed a number of additional third-party videogame titles
    primarily in North America, including Batman: Arkham
    Asylum. WBIE has entered into an agreement for the
    co-financing of certain of its interactive videogames with
    Imagenation Abu Dhabi, a subsidiary of Abu Dhabi Media Company,
    which arrangement is described in more detail below.


 



    Digital
    Media


 


    Warner Bros. Digital Distribution (“WBDD”), a division
    of WBHE, enters into domestic and international licensing
    arrangements for distribution of Warner Bros.’ film and
    television content and acquired content through both video on
    demand (“VOD”)
    and/or
    electronic sell-through (“EST”) transactions via
    cable, IPTV systems, satellite and online services for delivery
    to households, hotels and other viewers worldwide. WBDD licenses
    film and television content for both VOD and EST to cable,
    satellite and telephone company partners such as Comcast, Time
    Warner Cable, DirecTV, DISH Network and Verizon, as well as
    broadband customers including Apple’s iTunes, Amazon’s
    Video on Demand, Microsoft’s Xbox 360, Sony’s
    Playstation 3 and Blockbuster. WBDD has also licensed movies to
    Netflix’s subscription on demand service. In 2009, WBDD
    continued its VOD content release strategy of initiating the
    release, both domestically and in 15 international territories,
    of selected films through VOD on the same date as their release
    on DVD, Blu-ray Discs and EST.


 


    In 2009 WBDD expanded its arrangements with a number of mobile
    handset and PC manufacturers, including Nokia, Samsung and Dell,
    to pre-load films onto their devices to be marketed to
    consumers. WBDD also entered into content licensing deals for
    online interactive videogames involving DC Comics properties and
    The Lord of the Rings and for numerous mobile interactive
    videogames. In addition to its content licensing activities,
    WBDD published 23 Apps in Apple’s iTunes App Store,
    including Harry Potter: Spells, Lego Batman and
    Sherlock Holmes Mysteries. In partnership with WBIE, WBDD
    expanded its digital distribution strategy to include the online
    distribution of interactive videogames on multiple platforms
    including PC, Microsoft’s Xbox 360, Sony’s Playstation
    3 and handheld devices including Sony’s PSP device and
    Apple’s iPhone and iPod Touch. WBDD also entered into
    agreements in 2009 to test delivery of content through in-store
    digital kiosk locations.


 


    WBDD manages Warner Bros.’
    direct-to-consumer
    retail website, wbshop.com. In 2009, WBDD launched the
    Warner Archive Collection
    manufacturing-on-demand
    offering, allowing consumers to select Warner Bros. titles
    online, many of which were never before released on disc, and
    have the films burned onto discs and delivered to them. WBDD
    released over 420 such titles on wbshop.com in 2009.




    
    7



Table of Contents





    WBDD also makes electronic copies of movies available to
    consumers who purchase specially marked DVDs and Blu-ray Discs,
    either by entering a code included in the product packaging that
    allows consumers to download a file containing the film or by
    placing an electronic copy of the film directly on the DVD or
    Blu-ray Disc that the consumer can upload. In 2009, digital
    copies were offered to purchasers of DVDs and Blu-ray Discs on
    60 titles in the United States and digital copy offers were also
    made available for certain titles in 20 international
    territories.


 


    WBTVG’s online destination TMZ.com, is one of the
    leading entertainment news websites in the
    U.S. WBTVG’s MomLogic.com site serves as
    Telepictures’ online women’s network, the destination
    site TheWB.com is an online video site featuring programs
    from the Warner Bros. library and new original production, and
    its KidsWB.com is a casual game and video online
    destination site with a target audience of kids,
    ages 6-12.
    In addition, the online destination Essence.com, launched
    in conjunction with Time Inc.’s Essence magazine, is
    a leading online destination for
    African-American
    women. In 2010, WBTVG plans to launch one or more additional
    destination sites. WBTVG’s digital production venture,
    Studio 2.0, continues to create original programming for online
    and wireless distribution.


 


    Many of WBTVG’s current on-air television series are
    available on demand via broadband and wireless streaming and
    downloading and cable VOD platforms under agreements entered
    into with the broadcast and cable networks exhibiting the
    series. Pursuant to those agreements, the networks have the
    right to offer each series episode on demand for a limited
    period of time after the episode airs and WBTVG retains the
    right to offer permanent downloads of current episodes during
    the same timeframe and, increasingly, WBTVG has the right to
    offer online streaming of current series episodes at the end of
    a broadcast year. WBTVG also distributes certain off-air, or
    library, television series online in the U.S. through
    TheWB.com and other destination sites, and through
    distribution agreements with third party video exhibition sites.
    Internationally, WBTVG has a number of Warner Bros. branded
    on-demand program services, which, as of December 31, 2009,
    included five services in the U.K., three in each of France,
    Germany and China, two in each of Austria, Italy and Japan, and
    one in each of the Netherlands, Finland, Canada, Greece/Cyprus,
    Poland and Spain. In addition, WBTVG operates a linear Warner
    Bros. branded general entertainment channel in Latin America,
    and supplies programming to a linear Warner Bros. branded
    general entertainment channel in India.


 



    Other
    Entertainment Assets


 


    Warner Bros. Consumer Products Inc. licenses rights in both
    domestic and international markets to the names, likenesses,
    images, logos and other representations of characters and
    copyrighted material from the films and television series
    produced or distributed by Warner Bros., including the superhero
    characters of DC Comics, Hanna-Barbera characters, classic films
    and Looney Tunes.


 


    Warner Bros. and CBS each have a 50% interest in The CW, a
    broadcast network launched at the beginning of the Fall 2006
    broadcast season. For additional information, see
    “Networks,” above.


 


    Warner Bros. International Cinemas Inc. holds interests through
    joint ventures in 70 multi-screen cinema complexes, with over
    550 screens in Japan and the U.S. as of
    December 31, 2009.


 


    DC Entertainment, which is wholly owned by the Company, is
    responsible for bringing the DC Comics business, brand and
    characters from comics into other content and distribution
    businesses including feature films, television programming,
    interactive videogames,
    direct-to-consumer
    platforms, and consumer products. DC Comics, also wholly owned
    by the Company, publishes on average approximately 90 comic
    books and 30 graphic novels per month, featuring such popular
    characters as Superman, Batman, Green Lantern, Wonder Woman
    and The Sandman. DC Entertainment is the operating
    name of E.C. Publications, Inc., which also publishes MAD
    magazine.


 


    In 2007, Warner Bros. entered into a long-term, multi-faceted
    strategic alliance with ALDAR Properties PJSC, an Abu Dhabi real
    estate development company, and Abu Dhabi Media Company, a media
    company owned by the Abu Dhabi government, to develop certain
    entertainment related projects in Abu Dhabi. Some of the initial
    projects under the strategic alliance will include the creation
    of a theme park branded with Warner Bros. intellectual property,
    an agreement for the co-financing and distribution of
    interactive videogames and a film co-financing and distribution
    arrangement.




    
    8



Table of Contents






    Competition


 


    The production and distribution of theatrical motion pictures,
    television, videogame and animation product and DVDs and Blu-ray
    Discs are highly competitive businesses, as each vies with the
    other, as well as with other forms of entertainment and leisure
    time activities, including Internet streaming and downloading,
    websites providing social networking and user-generated content,
    interactive games and other online activities, for
    consumers’ attention. Furthermore, there is intense
    competition in the television industry evidenced by the
    increasing number and variety of broadcast networks and basic
    cable and pay television services now available. Despite this
    increasing variety of networks and services, access to primetime
    and syndicated television slots has actually tightened as
    networks and owned and operated stations increasingly source
    programming from content producers aligned with or owned by
    their parent companies. There is active competition among all
    production companies in these industries for the services of
    producers, directors, writers, actors and others and for the
    acquisition of literary properties. With respect to the
    distribution of television product, there is significant
    competition from independent distributors as well as major
    studios. Revenues for filmed entertainment product depend in
    part upon general economic conditions, but the competitive
    position of a producer or distributor is still greatly affected
    by the quality of, and public response to, the entertainment
    product it makes available to the marketplace.


 


    Warner Bros. also competes in its character merchandising and
    other licensing activities with other licensors of character,
    brand and celebrity names.


 



    PUBLISHING


 


    The Company’s publishing business is conducted primarily by
    Time Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, either
    directly or through its subsidiaries. Time Inc. is the largest
    magazine publisher in the U.S. based on advertising
    revenues, as measured by Publishers Information Bureau
    (“PIB”). In addition to publishing magazines, Time
    Inc. also operates a number of websites, as well as certain
    direct-marketing businesses.


 



    Publishing


 


    As of December 31, 2009, Time Inc. published 21 magazines
    in the U.S., including People, Sports Illustrated, Time,
    InStyle, Real Simple, Southern Living, Entertainment Weekly
    and Fortune, and over 90 magazines outside the U.S.,
    primarily through IPC Media (“IPC”) in the U.K. and
    Grupo Editorial Expansión (“GEE”) in Mexico. In
    addition, Time Inc. operates almost 50 websites, such as
    CNNMoney.com, People.com and SI.com, that
    collectively had average unique visitors of over 45 million
    in the U.S., the U.K., Mexico and other countries during the
    fourth quarter of 2009, according to comScore Media Metrix
    (based on comScore Media Metrix’s 360 methodology for
    digital audience measurement, which Time Inc. has utilized since
    October 2009).


 


    In December 2009, Time Inc., together with four other leading
    publishers, announced the formation of an independent venture to
    develop a new digital storefront and related technology that
    will allow consumers to enjoy media content on portable digital
    devices.


 


    In 2008, Time Inc. reorganized its U.S. magazines and
    companion websites into three business units, each under a
    single management team: (1) Style and Entertainment,
    (2) News and (3) Lifestyle. This structure has enabled
    Time Inc. to reduce its costs while bringing together under
    centralized management products that have a common appeal in the
    marketplace. In addition, magazine consumer marketing and
    production and distribution activities are generally
    centralized, and subscription fulfillment activities for Time
    Inc.’s U.S. magazines are primarily administered from
    a centralized facility in Tampa, Florida. In 2009, Time Inc.
    implemented further cost-saving initiatives, particularly at its
    News business unit.


 



    Style
    and Entertainment


 


    People is a weekly magazine that reports on celebrities
    and other newsworthy individuals. People magazine
    generated approximately 20% of Time Inc.’s revenues in
    2009. The People franchise also includes: People
    StyleWatch, a monthly magazine aimed at
    U.S. style-conscious younger readers; People en
    Espaňol, a monthly
    Spanish-language
    magazine aimed primarily at U.S. Hispanic readers;
    People.com, a leading website for celebrity





    
    9



Table of Contents





    news, photos and entertainment coverage; and
    PeopleEnEspaňol.com, a bilingual website aimed
    primarily at the U.S. Hispanic audience.


 


    InStyle, a monthly magazine, and InStyle.com, a
    related website, focus on celebrity, lifestyle, beauty and
    fashion. Time Inc. also publishes InStyle in the U.K.
    through IPC and in Mexico through GEE.


 


    Entertainment Weekly, a weekly magazine, and
    EW.com, a related entertainment news website, feature
    reviews and reports on movies, DVDs, video, television, music
    and books.


 


    Essence Communications Inc. (“ECI”) publishes
    Essence, a leading lifestyle magazine for
    African-American
    women in the U.S., and Essence.com, a related website,
    and also produces the annual Essence Music Festival. ECI
    partnered with Warner Bros. in 2008 to re-launch Essence.com
    and has also expanded the brand’s content online and
    into television and home entertainment.


 



    News


 


    Sports Illustrated is a weekly magazine that covers
    sports. Sports Illustrated for Kids is a monthly sports
    magazine intended primarily for pre-teenagers. SI.com is
    a leading sports news website that provides
    up-to-the-minute
    scores and sports news 24/7, as well as statistics and analysis
    of domestic and international professional sports and college
    and high school sports. SI.com operates
    FanNation.com, a social-media, community site for sports
    fans and fantasy sports enthusiasts. Time Inc. also publishes
    the sports magazine Golf, a leading monthly golf
    magazine, and Golf.com, a related website, which feature
    user-friendly content designed to help readers play their best
    golf and maximize their golfing experience.


 


    Time is a weekly newsmagazine that summarizes the news
    and interprets the week’s events, both national and
    international. Time also has three weekly
    English-language
    editions that circulate outside the U.S. Time for Kids
    is a weekly current events newsmagazine for children,
    ages 5 to 13. TIME.com provides breaking news and
    analysis, giving its readers access to its
    24-hour
    global news gathering operation and its vast archive.


 


    Fortune is a magazine published 18 times per year that
    reports on worldwide economic and business developments and
    compiles the annual Fortune 500 list of the largest
    U.S. corporations. Time Inc. also publishes Money, a
    monthly magazine that reports primarily on personal finance.
    Both of these magazines combine their resources on the
    CNNMoney.com website, a leading financial news and
    personal finance website that is operated in partnership with
    CNN.


 


    Life.com, launched in March 2009, is a joint venture
    between Time Inc. and Getty Images, Inc. It is one of the
    largest collections of professional photography online with over
    seven million photos, a combination of the legendary Life
    Magazine archives and Getty’s extensive collection of
    contemporary images.


 



    Lifestyle


 


    Real Simple, a monthly magazine, and
    RealSimple.com, a related website, focus on life, home,
    body and soul and provide practical solutions to make
    women’s lives easier.


 


    Southern Living, a monthly regional magazine, and
    SouthernLiving.com, a related website, focus on
    lifestyles in the southern part of the U.S.


 


    Cooking Light, a monthly epicurean magazine, and
    CookingLight.com, a related website, focus on cooking
    healthy and great tasting meals.


 


    Sunset, a monthly magazine, and Sunset.com, a
    related website, focus on western lifestyle in the U.S.


 


    All You, a monthly magazine, and AllYou.com, a
    related website, focus on lifestyle and service for value
    conscious women.


 


    Health, a monthly magazine for women, and
    Health.com, a related website, focus on information about
    health and wellness.


 


    This Old House publishes This Old House magazine and
    ThisOldHouse.com, a related website, and produces two
    television series, This Old House and Ask This Old
    House.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    Coastal Living, a monthly shelter and lifestyle magazine,
    and CoastalLiving.com, a related website, focus on home
    design and lifestyles in coastal areas of the U.S.


 


    MyRecipes.com, a recipes website, and
    MyHomeIdeas.com, a shelter website, both feature original
    content and content from other Time Inc. Lifestyle brands.


 



    Other
    Publishing Operations


 


    Time Inc. also has responsibility under a management contract
    for the American Express Publishing Corporation’s
    publishing operations, including its travel and epicurean
    magazines Travel & Leisure, Food & Wine
    and Departures and their related websites.


 



    International


 


    IPC, a leading U.K. consumer magazine publisher, publishes
    approximately 75 magazines as well as numerous special issues.
    IPC’s magazines include What’s On TV and TV
    Times in the television listings sector, Chat, Woman
    and Woman’s Own in the women’s lifestyle
    sector, Now in the celebrity sector, Woman &
    Home, Ideal Home and Homes & Gardens in the
    home and garden sector, Horse & Hound and
    Country Life in the leisure sector, NME in the
    music sector and Nuts and Loaded in the men’s
    lifestyle sector. In addition, IPC publishes four magazines
    through three unconsolidated joint ventures with Groupe Marie
    Claire. IPC websites include ShopStyle, a shopping portal on
    instyle.co.uk, video channels on nme.com, nuts.co.uk,
    trustedreviews.com and golfmonthly.co.uk, among other
    websites, and Mousebreaker.com, a U.K.
    free-to-play
    game site.


 


    Effective in January 2010, IPC reorganized into three operating
    divisions that are aligned with its three core audience groups
    of men, mass-market women and upscale women. This structure is
    intended to facilitate the delivery of highly targeted audiences
    to IPC’s advertisers and bring greater focus and efficiency
    to IPC’s operations.


 


    GEE, a leading Mexican consumer magazine publisher, publishes 14
    magazines in Mexico including: Quién, a celebrity
    and personality magazine; Expansión, a business
    magazine; IDC, a tax and accounting bulletin; Vuelo
    and Loop, two in-flight magazines that it publishes
    pursuant to a license agreement with Mexicana airlines;
    InStyle Mexico, a fashion and lifestyle magazine for
    women; and Chilango, a Mexico City listing guide. In
    addition, GEE publishes two magazines through an unconsolidated
    joint venture with Hachette Filipacchi Presse S.A. GEE also
    operates MetrosCúbicos.com, a leading website for
    classified real estate listings in Mexico,
    CNNExpansíon.com, a leading business website in
    Mexico, and Quien.com, a leading celebrity site, and it
    holds a majority interest in MedioTiempo.com, a leading
    sports website in Mexico.


 


    Time Inc. licenses over 50 editions of its magazines for
    publication outside the U.S. to publishers in over 20
    countries.


 



    Advertising


 


    Time Inc. derives approximately half of its revenues from the
    sale of advertising, primarily from its magazines with a smaller
    amount of advertising revenues from its websites. Advertising
    carried in Time Inc.’s magazines and on its websites is
    predominantly consumer advertising, including food, toiletries
    and cosmetics, drugs, automobiles, computers and
    telecommunications, media and movies, retail and department
    stores, financial services and insurance, apparel and
    accessories, travel and home.


 


    In 2009, Time Inc.’s U.S. magazines accounted for 20%
    (compared to 18.4% in 2008) of the total
    U.S. advertising revenues in consumer magazines, excluding
    newspaper supplements, as measured by PIB. People,
    Sports Illustrated and Time were ranked 1, 3 and
    6, respectively, in terms of PIB-measured advertising revenues
    in 2009, and Time Inc. had six of the top 25 leading magazines
    based on the same measure.


 



    Circulation


 


    Through the sale of magazines to consumers, circulation
    generates significant revenues for Time Inc. In addition,
    circulation is an important component in determining Time
    Inc.’s print advertising revenues because advertising page
    rates are based on circulation and audience. Most of Time
    Inc.’s U.S. magazines are sold primarily





    
    11



Table of Contents





    by subscription and delivered to subscribers through the mail.
    Subscriptions are sold primarily through direct mail and online
    solicitation, subscription sales agents, marketing agreements
    with other companies and insert cards in Time Inc. magazines and
    other publications. Most of Time Inc.’s international
    magazines are sold primarily at newsstands.


 


    Time Inc.’s Synapse Group, Inc. (“Synapse”) is a
    leading seller of domestic magazine subscriptions to Time Inc.
    magazines and magazines of other U.S. publishers. Synapse
    sells magazine subscriptions principally through marketing
    relationships with credit card issuers, consumer catalog
    companies, commercial airlines with frequent flier programs,
    retailers and Internet businesses.


 


    Time Inc.’s
    U.S.-based
    school and youth group fundraising company, QSP, Inc. and its
    Canadian affiliate, Quality Service Programs Inc. (collectively,
    “QSP”), offers fundraising programs that help schools
    and youth groups raise money through the sale of magazine
    subscriptions to Time Inc. magazines and magazines of other
    publishers, among other products.


 


    Newsstand sales of magazines, which are reported as a component
    of Subscription revenues, are sold through traditional
    newsstands as well as other retail outlets such as Wal-Mart,
    supermarkets and convenience and drug stores, and may or may not
    result in repeat purchases. Time/Warner Retail Sales &
    Marketing Inc. distributes and markets copies of Time Inc.
    magazines and books and certain other publishers’ magazines
    and books through third-party wholesalers primarily in the
    U.S. and Canada. Wholesalers, in turn, sell Time Inc.
    magazines and books to retailers. A small number of wholesalers
    are responsible for a substantial portion of Time Inc.’s
    newsstand sales of magazines and books. IPC’s Marketforce
    (U.K.) Limited distributes and markets copies of all IPC
    magazines, some international editions of Time Inc.’s
    U.S. magazines and certain other publishers’ magazines
    outside of the U.S. through third-party wholesalers to
    retail outlets.


 



    Paper
    and Printing


 


    Paper constitutes a significant component of physical costs in
    the production of magazines. During 2009, Time Inc. purchased
    over 275,000 tons of paper for magazines and other printed
    products principally from three independent manufacturers.


 


    Printing and binding for Time Inc. magazines are performed
    primarily by major domestic and international independent
    printing concerns in multiple locations in the U.S. and in
    other countries. Magazine printing contracts are typically
    fixed-term at fixed prices with, in some cases, adjustments
    based on inflation.


 



    Direct-Marketing
    and Books


 


    Through subsidiaries, Time Inc. conducts direct-marketing
    businesses as well as certain niche book publishing. In addition
    to selling magazine subscriptions, Synapse is a direct marketer
    of consumer products, including jewelry and other merchandise.


 


    In addition to magazine fundraising programs, QSP offers
    fundraising programs that help schools and youth groups to raise
    money through the sale of chocolate, cookie dough and other
    products.


 


    Time Inc.’s book publishing business consists of Time Inc.
    Home Entertainment, Oxmoor House and Sunset Books, which publish
    how-to, lifestyle and special commemorative books, among other
    topics.


 


    In 2009, Time Inc. sold Southern Living At Home, its direct
    selling division which sells home décor products through
    independent consultants.


 



    Postal
    Rates


 


    Postal costs represent a significant operating expense for the
    Company’s magazine publishing and direct-marketing
    activities. In 2009, Time Inc. spent over $250 million for
    services provided by the U.S. Postal Service. The
    U.S. Postal Service implemented an approximately 3.8%
    postal rate increase effective May 11, 2009 for all classes
    of mail but is not expected to increase rates in 2010. These
    increased costs are not directly passed on to





    
    12



Table of Contents





    magazine subscribers. Time Inc. strives to minimize postal
    expense through the use of certain cost-saving activities with
    respect to address quality, mail preparation and delivery of
    products to postal facilities.


 



    Competition


 


    Time Inc. faces significant competition from several direct
    competitors and other media, including the Internet. Time
    Inc.’s magazine and website operations compete with
    numerous other magazine and website publishers and other media
    for circulation and audience and for advertising directed at the
    general public and at more focused demographic groups. The
    publishing business presents few barriers to entry and many new
    magazines and websites are launched annually. In recent years,
    competitors have launched
    and/or
    repositioned many magazines and websites, primarily in the
    celebrity and women’s sectors that compete directly with
    People, InStyle, Real Simple and other Time Inc.
    magazines, as well as Time Inc.’s websites. This has
    resulted in increased competition, especially at newsstands and
    mass retailers and particularly for celebrity and entertainment
    magazines. It is possible that additional competitors may enter
    the website publishing business.


 


    Competition for magazine and website advertising revenues is
    primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and size of the
    audience (including the circulation and readership of magazines
    and the number of unique visitors to and page views on
    websites), audience response to advertisers’ products and
    services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive
    factors in publishing include product positioning, editorial
    quality, price and customer service, which impact audience,
    circulation revenue and advertising revenue. In addition,
    competition for magazine advertising revenue has intensified in
    recent years as advertising dollars have increasingly shifted
    from traditional to online media, and competition for
    advertising has intensified even further due to the difficult
    current economic conditions.


 


    Time Inc.’s direct-marketing operations compete with other
    direct marketers through all media, including the Internet, for
    the consumer’s attention.


 



    INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY


 


    Time Warner is one of the world’s leading creators, owners
    and distributors of intellectual property. The Company’s
    vast intellectual property assets include copyrights in motion
    pictures, television programs, magazines, software and books;
    trademarks in names, logos and characters; patents or patent
    applications for inventions related to its products and
    services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of
    various kinds. These intellectual property assets, both in the
    U.S. and in other countries around the world, are among the
    Company’s most valuable assets. The Company derives value
    from these assets through a range of business models, including
    the theatrical release of films, the licensing of its films and
    television programming to multiple domestic and international
    television and cable networks and pay television services, and
    the sale of products such as DVDs, Blu-ray Discs and magazines.
    It also derives revenues related to its intellectual property
    through advertising in its magazines, networks and online
    properties and from various types of licensing activities,
    including licensing of its copyrighted motion pictures,
    television programming and other works to distributors and
    licensing of its trademarks and characters. To protect these
    assets, the Company relies on a combination of copyright,
    trademark, unfair competition, patent and trade secret laws and
    contract provisions. The duration of the protection afforded to
    the Company’s intellectual property depends on the type of
    property in question and the laws and regulations of the
    relevant jurisdiction; in the case of licenses, it also depends
    on contractual
    and/or
    statutory provisions.


 


    The Company vigorously pursues all appropriate avenues of
    protection for its intellectual property. However, there can be
    no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be
    successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the
    Company’s intellectual property is often difficult and
    costly and the steps taken may not in every case prevent
    misappropriation. Piracy, particularly in the digital
    environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from
    products and services based on intellectual property. The
    Company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of
    approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives,
    applying technical protection measures, pursuing legal sanctions
    for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives,
    and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of
    intellectual property. The Company works with various
    cross-industry





    
    13



Table of Contents





    groups and trade associations, as well as with strategic
    partners to develop and implement technological solutions to
    control digital piracy.


 


    Third parties may bring intellectual property infringement
    claims or challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s
    intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges
    could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property
    rights. In addition, domestic and international laws, statutes
    and regulations are constantly changing, and the Company’s
    assets may be either adversely or beneficially affected by such
    changes. Moreover, intellectual property protections may be
    insufficient or insufficiently enforced in certain foreign
    territories. The Company therefore generally engages in efforts
    to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around
    the world, including efforts to ensure effective and
    appropriately tailored remedies for infringement.


 



    REGULATORY
    MATTERS


 


    The Company’s cable networks and original programming
    businesses are subject, in part, to regulation by the Federal
    Communications Commission (the “FCC”). The
    Company’s magazine and other direct marketing activities
    are also subject to regulation. The following is a summary of
    current significant federal, state and local laws and
    regulations affecting the growth and operation of these
    businesses. In addition, various legislative and regulatory
    proposals under consideration from time to time by the United
    States Congress (“Congress”) and various federal
    agencies have in the past materially affected, and may in the
    future materially affect, the Company and its businesses.


 



    Network
    Regulation


 


    Under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and its
    implementing regulations, cable networks are subject to certain
    direct and, through their distribution partners, indirect
    obligations relating to closed captioning, political
    advertising, and commercial limits on programming produced and
    broadcast primarily for an audience of children 12 and under.


 


    Certain other federal laws also contain provisions relating to
    violent and sexually explicit programming, including provisions
    relating to the voluntary promulgation of ratings by the
    industry and requiring manufacturers to build television sets
    with the capability of blocking certain coded programming (the
    so-called “V-chip”). Cable networks with programming
    produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children 12
    and younger must also comply with commercial time limits during
    such programming.


 


    In addition, various legislative and regulatory proposals may in
    the future materially affect the Company and its businesses. For
    example, in October 2009, the FCC initiated a rulemaking to
    adopt so-called “net neutrality” rules codifying its
    2005 Internet Policy Statement by preventing Internet service
    providers (ISPs) from interfering with: (1) a
    consumer’s ability to send or receive lawful content over
    the Internet; (2) a consumer’s ability to run the
    services and applications of its choice; (3) a
    consumer’s ability to connect to and use lawful devices
    that do not harm the ISP’s network; and (4) a
    consumer’s entitlement to competition among network
    providers, application providers, service providers, and content
    providers. The rulemaking also proposes to require ISPs to
    adhere to new nondiscrimination and transparency principles, but
    would allow ISPs to employ reasonable network management to
    address, among other things, network congestion and unlawful
    transfers of content, such as copyrighted material subject to
    piracy. The FCC is expected to finalize its rules in 2010.


 


    In October 2007, the FCC initiated a rulemaking to examine
    questions regarding the use of bundling practices in carriage
    agreements for both broadcast and satellite cable programming.
    It is unclear what, if any, action the FCC will take in this
    matter.


 


    In June 2008, the FCC initiated an inquiry and rulemaking to
    examine the use of product placement and integration in
    television programming. In this proceeding, the FCC sought
    comment on whether to enhance its existing sponsorship
    identification rules applicable to broadcast programming, and
    whether to extend such rules to cable programming. The
    proceeding also sought comment on whether to expressly prohibit
    the use of paid product placement or integration in
    children’s television programming. It is unclear what, if
    any, action the FCC will take in this matter.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    In October 2009, the FCC initiated an inquiry to broadly survey
    the state of children’s media across multiple platforms and
    seek comment on existing ratings, advertising, and media
    literacy efforts. It is unclear what, if any, action the FCC
    will take in this matter.


 


    The Obama administration is expected to focus on combating
    childhood obesity through advocacy and other efforts in 2010. In
    December 2009, an interagency task force announced plans to seek
    comment on a proposed voluntary nutrition standard for food and
    beverage marketing aimed at children 2-17 years old. The
    Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) is also expected to
    encourage stronger self-regulatory efforts with respect to food
    and beverage marketing to children, including restrictions on
    the use of licensed characters from media companies in
    conjunction with “unhealthy” food and beverage
    products and on advertisements for “unhealthy” food
    and beverages during programming directed at children.


 


    Although the Company is no longer vertically integrated with a
    cable operator and thus is no longer subject to the FCC’s
    program access regulations, in January 2007, online video
    provider, VDC Corporation (“VDC”), filed a program
    access complaint with the FCC against Turner, also naming Time
    Warner in the proceeding. VDC seeks both a licensing agreement
    for the carriage of various Turner networks, as well as damages
    not to exceed $25 million. This complaint raises issues of
    first impression at the FCC, including whether online providers
    such as VDC are entitled to take advantage of the program access
    rules. Turner believes VDC’s arguments are without merit
    and has requested dismissal of the complaint. This matter
    remains pending before the FCC.


 



    Marketing
    Regulation


 


    Time Inc.’s magazine subscription and direct marketing
    activities, as well as marketing activities by other divisions
    of the Company, are subject to regulation by the FTC and each of
    the states under general consumer protection statutes
    prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas
    of marketing activity are also subject to specific federal
    statutes and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection
    Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy) and the
    FTC Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule. Other statutes and
    rules also regulate conduct in areas such as privacy, data
    security, product safety and telemarketing. Time Inc. regularly
    receives and resolves routine inquiries from state Attorneys
    General and is subject to agreements with state Attorneys
    General addressing some of Time Inc.’s marketing activities.


 



    FOREIGN
    CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES


 


    Time Warner’s businesses generate revenues and incur
    expenses in a number of foreign currencies and are subject to
    the risk of fluctuation in currency exchange rates and to
    exchange controls. Time Warner cannot predict the extent to
    which such controls and fluctuations in currency exchange rates
    may affect its operations in the future or its ability to remit
    dollars from abroad. See “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Market Risk Management — Foreign
    Currency Risk,” Note 13 to the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements, “Derivative
    Instruments,” and “Risk Factors” for additional
    information.


 



    FINANCIAL
    INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND
    BACKLOG


 


    Financial and other information by segment and revenues by
    geographic area for each year in the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2009 is set forth in Note 14 to the
    Company’s consolidated financial statements, “Segment
    Information.” Information with respect to the
    Company’s backlog, representing future revenue not yet
    recorded from cash contracts for the licensing of theatrical and
    television product, at December 31, 2009 and
    December 31, 2008, is set forth in Note 15 to the
    Company’s consolidated financial statements,
    “Commitments and Contingencies —
    Commitments — Programming Licensing Backlog.”




    
    15



Table of Contents









 




    
    



    
    Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY


 


    The Company must respond to recent and future changes in
    technology, services and standards and changes in consumer
    behavior to remain competitive and continue to increase its
    revenues. Technology, particularly digital
    technology used in the entertainment industry, continues to
    evolve rapidly, and advances in that technology have led to
    alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital
    content. These technological changes have driven and reinforced
    changes in consumer behavior, as consumers increasingly seek
    control over when, where and how they consume digital content.
    For example, content owners are increasingly delivering their
    content directly to consumers over the Internet, often without
    charge, and consumer electronics innovations have enabled
    consumers to view such Internet-delivered content on televisions
    and portable devices. Further, the current economic conditions
    could have the effect of accelerating the migration to digital
    technologies among both providers and consumers of content, with
    companies seeking greater efficiencies and consumers seeking
    more value and lower cost alternatives.


 


    Technological developments also pose other challenges for the
    Company that could adversely affect its revenues and competitive
    position. For example, the Company may not have the right, and
    may not be able to secure the right, to distribute its licensed
    content across new delivery platforms that are developed. In
    addition, technological developments that enable third-party
    owners of programming to bypass traditional cable networks, such
    as the Turner Networks and the Home Box Office Services, and
    deal directly with cable system and other content distributors
    could place limitations on the ability of the Networks and
    Filmed Entertainment segments to distribute such third-party
    programming that could have an adverse impact on their revenues.
    Cable system and direct broadcast satellite operators are
    increasingly able to transmit more channels on their existing
    equipment, reducing the cost of creating channels and
    potentially furthering the development of more specialized niche
    audiences, which could increase the competition for viewers.
    Furthermore, advances in technology or changes in
    competitors’ product and service offerings may require the
    Company in the future to make additional research and
    development expenditures or to offer at no additional charge or
    at a lower price certain products and services that are
    currently offered to customers separately or at a premium. There
    is also the risk that the Company could develop or support a new
    technology or business initiative that is not adopted by
    consumers. In addition, traditional audience measures have
    evolved with emerging technologies that can measure audiences
    with improved sensitivity, and there may be future technical and
    marketplace developments that will result in new audience
    measurements that may be used as the basis for the pricing and
    guaranteeing of the advertising contracts of the Publishing
    segment or the advertising-supported networks in the Networks
    segment, which could have an adverse effect on these
    segments’ advertising revenues and an indirect adverse
    impact on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing
    revenues. There is also the risk for the Publishing segment that
    new delivery platforms could lead to pricing restrictions, the
    loss of distribution control and the loss of a direct
    relationship with consumers.


 


    The Company’s failure to protect and maximize the value of
    its content, while adapting to, supporting and developing new
    technology and business models to take advantage of new and
    emerging technologies and changes to consumer behavior could
    have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s
    businesses and results of operations.


 


    The introduction and increased popularity of alternative
    technologies for the distribution of entertainment, news and
    other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits and
    advertising expenditures from traditional media to digital media
    could adversely affect the Company’s
    revenues. The Company’s Publishing and
    Networks segments derive a substantial portion of their revenues
    from advertising in magazines and on television, respectively.
    Distribution of entertainment, news and other information via
    the Internet has become increasingly popular over the past
    several years, and viewing entertainment, news and other content
    on a personal computer, mobile phone or other electronic or
    portable electronic device has become increasingly popular as
    well. Accordingly, advertising dollars have started to shift
    from traditional media to digital media. The Company believes
    that the shift in major advertisers’ expenditures from
    traditional media to digital media has adversely affected the
    revenue growth of the Publishing and Networks segments, which
    may continue in the future. This shift could further intensify
    competition for advertising in traditional media, which could
    exert greater pressure on these segments to





    
    16



Table of Contents





    increase revenues from digital advertising. In addition, if
    consumers increasingly elect to obtain news and entertainment
    online instead of by purchasing the Publishing segment’s
    magazines, this trend could negatively affect the segment’s
    circulation revenues and also adversely affect its advertising
    revenues. Further, the Publishing and Networks segments have
    taken various steps to diversify the means by which they
    distribute content and generate advertising revenues, including
    increasing investments in Internet properties, which may not be
    sufficient to offset revenue losses resulting from a continued
    shift in advertising dollars over the long term from traditional
    media to digital media. In addition, this trend also could have
    an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenues generated
    by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenues generated
    by Home Box Office from the licensing of its original
    programming in syndication and to basic cable networks.


 


    The Company has been, and may continue to be, adversely
    affected by weak economic and market
    conditions. The Company’s businesses have
    been, and in the future will continue to be affected by economic
    and market conditions, including factors such as interest rates,
    the rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence and
    changes in consumer spending habits. Because many of the
    Company’s products and services are largely discretionary
    items, the deterioration of these conditions could diminish
    demand for the Company’s products and services. Such a
    decline could also increase the Company’s cost to provide
    such products and services. In addition, expenditures by
    advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting general economic
    conditions, and therefore, the deterioration of these conditions
    could adversely affect the Company’s revenues since the
    Company’s Networks and Publishing segments derive a
    substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of
    advertising. Declines in consumer spending due to weak economic
    conditions could also indirectly impact the Company’s
    advertising revenues by causing downward pricing pressure on
    advertising because advertisers may not perceive as much value
    from advertising if consumers are purchasing fewer of their
    products or services. Advertising expenditures also could be
    negatively affected by other factors, such as shifting societal
    norms, pressure from public interest groups, changes in laws and
    regulations and other social, political and technological
    developments. Disasters, acts of terrorism, hostilities, global
    health concerns or pandemics also could lead to a reduction in
    advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news
    coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures by
    companies in certain sectors of the economy, including food and
    beverage, apparel, fashion and retail, pharmaceuticals and
    medical, motion picture, automotive, financial/business services
    and insurance, toiletries and cosmetics, and telecommunications,
    represent a significant portion of the Company’s
    advertising revenues, and any economic, political, social or
    technological change resulting in a significant reduction in the
    advertising spending of these sectors could further adversely
    affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to
    maintain or increase such revenues.


 


    Declines in the global economy contributed to reduced
    advertising expenditures in 2008 and 2009, and, if economic
    conditions do not improve, advertising expenditures could
    decline or remain at reduced levels. There is also a risk that
    print advertising may not rebound when economic conditions
    improve, or it may take several years for such a rebound to
    occur.


 


    The Company also faces risks associated with the impact of
    economic and market conditions on third parties, such as
    suppliers, retailers, film co-financing partners, insurers,
    lenders and other sources of financing and other parties with
    which it does business. If these parties file for protection
    under bankruptcy laws or otherwise experience negative effects
    on their businesses due to the market and economic conditions,
    it could negatively affect the Company’s business or
    operating results.


 


    Time Warner is exposed to risks associated with disruption
    in the financial markets. U.S. and global
    credit and equity markets experienced significant disruption
    beginning in late 2008, making it difficult for many businesses
    to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, equity
    markets experienced wide fluctuations in value. The Company is
    exposed to risks associated with disruptions in the financial
    markets, which can make it more difficult and more expensive to
    obtain financing. In addition, disruptions in the financial
    markets can adversely affect the Company’s lenders,
    insurers, customers and counterparties, including vendors,
    retailers and film co-financing partners. For instance, the
    inability of the Company’s counterparties to obtain
    financing on acceptable terms could impair their ability to
    perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to
    various negative effects on the Company, including fewer outlets
    for retail sales, business disruption, decreased revenues,
    increases in bad debt write-offs and, in the case of film
    co-financing partners, greater risk with respect to the
    performance of the Company’s films.




    
    17



Table of Contents





    Time Warner faces risks relating to doing business
    internationally that could adversely affect its business and
    operating results. Time Warner’s businesses
    operate and serve customers worldwide. There are risks inherent
    in doing business internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    economic volatility and the global economic slowdown;








     
        •    

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary pressures;








     
        •    

    
    the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the
    publication and distribution of content and the display and sale
    of advertising;








     
        •    

    
    import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations;








     
        •    

    
    difficulties in developing, staffing and managing a large number
    of foreign operations as a result of distance and language and
    cultural differences;








     
        •    

    
    issues related to occupational safety and adherence to diverse
    local labor laws and regulations;








     
        •    

    
    potentially adverse tax developments;








     
        •    

    
    longer payment cycles;








     
        •    

    
    political or social unrest;








     
        •    

    
    risks related to government regulation;








     
        •    

    
    the existence in some countries of statutory shareholder
    minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership;








     
        •    

    
    the presence of corruption in certain countries; and








     
        •    

    
    higher than anticipated costs of entry.





 


    One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s
    international operations and its business and operating results.
    In addition, the Company could be at a competitive disadvantage
    in the long term if its businesses are not able to strengthen
    their positions and capitalize on international opportunities in
    growth economies and media sectors. International expansion
    involves significant investments as well as risks associated
    with doing business abroad, and investments in some regions can
    take a long period to generate an adequate return and in some
    cases there may not be a developed or efficient legal system to
    protect foreign investment or intellectual property rights. In
    addition, if the Company expands into new international regions,
    some of its businesses will have only limited experience in
    operating and marketing their products and services in such
    regions and could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors
    with more experience, particularly diversified media companies
    that are well established in some developing nations, and the
    Company’s strategies for growth may not be successful.


 


    The Company’s businesses operate in highly
    competitive industries. Competition faced by the
    businesses in the Company’s Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments is intense and comes from many different
    sources, and the ability of these businesses to compete
    successfully depends on many factors, including their ability to
    provide high-quality, popular entertainment product, adapt to
    new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve
    widespread distribution. There has been consolidation in the
    media industry, and the Networks and Filmed Entertainment
    segments’ competitors include industry participants with
    interests in other multiple media businesses that are often
    vertically integrated. Such vertical integration could have
    various negative effects on the competitive position of the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example,
    vertical integration of television networks and television and
    film production or distribution companies could adversely affect
    the Networks segment if it hinders the ability of the Networks
    segment to obtain programming for its networks. In addition, if
    purchasers of programming increasingly purchase their
    programming from production companies with which they are
    affiliated, such vertical integration could have a negative
    effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing
    revenues and the revenues generated by Home Box Office from the
    licensing of its original programming in syndication and to
    basic cable networks. There can be no assurance that the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments will be able to
    compete successfully in the future against existing or potential
    competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect
    on their businesses or results of operations.


 


    The Company’s Publishing segment faces significant
    competition from several direct competitors and other media,
    including the Internet. Moreover, additional competitors may
    enter the website publishing business and further intensify
    competition, which could have an adverse impact on the
    segment’s revenues. Competition for print advertising
    expenditures has intensified in recent years as advertising
    spending has increasingly shifted from traditional to digital
    media, and this competition has intensified even further due to
    difficult economic conditions. There can be no assurance that
    the Publishing segment will be able to compete successfully in
    the future against





    
    18



Table of Contents





    existing or potential competitors or that competition will not
    have an adverse effect on its business or results of operations.


 


    The Company faces risks relating to competition for the
    leisure and entertainment time of consumers, which has
    intensified in part due to advances in technology and changes in
    consumer behavior. The Company’s businesses
    are subject to risks relating to increasing competition for the
    leisure and entertainment time of consumers and this competition
    may intensify further during economic downturns. The
    Company’s businesses compete with each other and all other
    sources of entertainment, news and other information, including
    broadcast television, films, the Internet, home video products,
    interactive videogames, sports, print media, live events and
    radio broadcasts. Technological advancements, such as
    video-on-demand,
    new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading, have
    increased the number of media and entertainment choices
    available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by
    audience fragmentation. The increasing number of choices
    available to consumers could negatively affect not only consumer
    demand for the Company’s products and services, but also
    advertisers’ willingness to purchase advertising from the
    Company’s businesses. If the Company does not respond
    appropriately to further increases in the leisure and
    entertainment choices available to consumers, the Company’s
    competitive position could deteriorate, and its financial
    results could suffer.


 


    The popularity of the Company’s content and other
    factors are difficult to predict and could lead to fluctuations
    in the Company’s revenues, and low public acceptance of the
    Company’s content may adversely affect its results of
    operations. The production and distribution of
    television programming, films, interactive videogames, magazines
    and other content are inherently risky businesses largely
    because the revenues derived from the production and
    distribution of such content, as well as the licensing of rights
    to the intellectual property associated with such content,
    depend primarily on its acceptance by the public, which is
    difficult to predict. Public acceptance of new, original
    television programming and new theatrical films and interactive
    videogames that are not part of a franchise is particularly
    difficult to predict, which heightens the risks associated with
    such content. In addition, due to the decline in the sales of
    DVDs, the success of a theatrical film is much more dependent on
    public acceptance at the box office. The commercial success of a
    television program, film, interactive videogame, magazine or
    other content also depends on the quality and acceptance of
    other competing content available or released at or near the
    same time, the adequacy of efforts to limit piracy, particularly
    of films still in theatrical distribution, the availability of
    alternate forms of entertainment and leisure time activities,
    the ability to develop strong brand awareness and target key
    audience demographics and anticipate and adapt to changes in
    consumer tastes and behavior on a timely basis, general economic
    conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, many of
    which are difficult to predict. In addition, in the case of the
    Turner Networks, the popularity of their syndicated and original
    programming is a factor that is weighed when determining their
    advertising rates, and, as a result, poor ratings in targeted
    demographics can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertiser
    demand.


 


    Historically, there has been a correlation between a theatrical
    film’s domestic box office success and international box
    office success, as well as a correlation between box office
    success and success in subsequent distribution channels.
    Consequently, the underperformance of a film, particularly an
    “event” film (which typically has high production and
    marketing costs) or a film that is part of a franchise, can have
    an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations in
    both the year of release and in the future, and may adversely
    affect revenues from other distribution channels, such as home
    entertainment and pay television programming services, and sales
    of interactive videogames and licensed consumer products based
    on such film.


 


    Sales of DVDs have been declining, which may adversely
    affect the Company’s growth prospects and results of
    operations. Several factors, including weak
    economic conditions, the maturation of the standard definition
    DVD format, piracy and intense competition for consumer
    discretionary spending and leisure time, are contributing to an
    industry-wide decline in DVD sales both domestically and
    internationally, which has had an adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations. DVD sales have also been
    adversely affected as subscription rental and discount rental
    kiosks, which generate significantly less revenue per
    transaction than DVD sales, have captured an increasing share of
    consumer transactions and consumer spending. DVD and Blu-ray
    Disc sales also may be negatively affected as consumers
    increasingly shift from consuming physical entertainment
    products to digital forms of entertainment. The media and
    entertainment industries face a challenge in managing the
    transition from physical to electronic formats in a manner that
    continues to support the current DVD and Blu-ray Disc business
    and their relationships with large retail customers and yet
    meets the growing consumer demand for delivery of entertainment





    
    19



Table of Contents





    content in a variety of electronic formats. There can be no
    assurance that DVD and Blu-ray Disc wholesale prices can be
    maintained at current levels, due to aggressive retail pricing
    and the consumer transition to digital and lower priced rental
    services.


 


    Piracy of the Company’s content may decrease the
    revenues received from the exploitation of its content and
    adversely affect its business and
    profitability. The piracy of Time Warner’s
    brands, motion pictures, television programming, DVDs, Blu-ray
    Discs, video content, interactive videogames and other
    intellectual property in the U.S. and internationally poses
    significant challenges to the Company’s businesses,
    particularly the Company’s Filmed Entertainment and
    Networks segments. Technological advances allowing the
    unauthorized dissemination of motion pictures, television
    programming and other content in unprotected digital formats,
    including via the Internet, increase the threat of piracy
    because they make it easier to create, transmit and distribute
    high quality unauthorized copies of content. The proliferation
    of unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s products
    or the products it licenses from third parties can have an
    adverse effect on its businesses and profitability because these
    products reduce the revenues that Time Warner potentially could
    receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its
    content. Policing the unauthorized use of the Company’s
    contents and products is difficult and costly, and there can be
    no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its
    rights and combat piracy will be successful in reducing piracy
    of the Company’s content and products.


 


    Time Warner’s businesses may suffer if it cannot
    continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights
    on which its businesses depend. The Company relies
    on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the
    United States and similar laws in other countries, and licenses
    and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers
    and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual
    property rights in content, technology and products and services
    used in its various operations and to conduct its businesses.
    However, the Company’s intellectual property rights could
    be challenged or invalidated, or such intellectual property
    rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take advantage of
    current industry trends or otherwise to provide competitive
    advantages, which could result in costly redesign efforts,
    discontinuance of certain product and service offerings or other
    competitive harm. Further, the laws of certain countries do not
    protect Time Warner’s proprietary rights, or such laws may
    not be strictly enforced. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions
    the Company may be unable to protect its intellectual property
    adequately against unauthorized copying or use, which could
    adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the
    migration to digital technology and other technological changes
    in the industries in which the Company operates, the Company may
    need to use technologies developed or licensed by third parties
    in order to conduct its businesses, and if Time Warner is not
    able to obtain or to continue to obtain licenses from these
    third parties on reasonable terms, its businesses could be
    adversely affected. It is also possible that, in connection with
    a merger, sale or acquisition transaction, the Company may
    license its trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill
    to third parties, or the business of various segments could be
    subject to certain restrictions in connection with such
    trademarks or service marks and associated goodwill that were
    not in place prior to such a transaction.


 


    The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to
    claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have
    an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating
    results due to a disruption in its business operations, the
    incurrence of significant costs and other
    factors. From time to time, the Company receives
    notices from others claiming that it infringes their
    intellectual property rights, and the number of intellectual
    property infringement claims could increase in the future.
    Increased infringement claims and lawsuits could require Time
    Warner to enter into royalty or licensing agreements on
    unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be
    enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the
    intellectual property in question. This could require Time
    Warner to change its business practices and limit its ability to
    compete effectively. Even if Time Warner believes that the
    claims are without merit, the claims can be time-consuming and
    costly to defend and divert management’s attention and
    resources away from its businesses. In addition, agreements
    entered into by the Company may require it to indemnify the
    other party for certain third-party intellectual property
    infringement claims, which could require the Company to expend
    sums to defend against or settle such claims or, potentially, to
    pay damages. If Time Warner is required to take any of these
    actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s
    businesses or operating results. The use of new technologies to
    distribute content on the Internet, including through Internet
    sites providing social networking and user-generated content,
    could put some of the Company’s businesses at an increased
    risk of allegations of copyright or trademark infringement or
    legal liability, as





    
    20



Table of Contents





    well as cause them to incur significant technical, legal or
    other costs and limit their ability to provide competitive
    content, features or tools.


 


    The Company’s businesses are subject to labor
    interruption. The Company and certain of its
    suppliers retain the services of writers, directors, actors,
    athletes, technicians, trade employees and others involved in
    the development and production of motion pictures, television
    programs and magazines who are covered by collective bargaining
    agreements. If the Company and its suppliers are unable to renew
    expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that
    the affected unions could take actions in the form of strikes,
    work slowdowns or work stoppages. Such actions or the
    possibility of such actions could cause delays in the production
    or the release dates of the Company’s feature films,
    television programs and magazines, as well as result in higher
    costs either from such actions or less favorable terms of the
    applicable agreements on renewal.


 


    The Company’s businesses rely heavily on network and
    information systems or other technology, and a disruption or
    failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of
    computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance,
    as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of
    information or similar events, may disrupt the Company’s
    businesses and damage its reputation. Because
    network and information systems and other technologies are
    critical to many of Time Warner’s operating activities,
    network or information system shutdowns or service disruptions
    caused by events such as computer hacking, dissemination of
    computer viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive
    software, denial of service attacks and other malicious
    activity, as well as power outages, natural disasters,
    impairments to satellite systems used to transmit programming,
    terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing risks.
    Such an event could have an adverse impact on the Company and
    its customers, including degradation of service, service
    disruption and damage to equipment and data. Significant
    incidents could result in a disruption of the Company’s
    operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or
    revenues. Furthermore, the operating activities of Time
    Warner’s various businesses could be subject to risks
    caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and
    accidental release or loss of information maintained in the
    information technology systems and networks of the Company and
    third party vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor
    data. The Company could be exposed to significant costs if such
    risks were to materialize, and such events could damage the
    reputation and credibility of Time Warner and its businesses and
    have a negative impact on its revenues. The Company also could
    be required to expend significant capital and other resources to
    remedy any such security breach or to repair or replace networks
    or information systems.


 


    If the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation is determined
    to be taxable for income tax purposes, Time Warner
    and/or Time
    Warner’s stockholders who received shares of AOL or TWC in
    connection with the spin-offs could incur significant income tax
    liabilities. In connection with the AOL Separation,
    Time Warner received an opinion of counsel confirming that the
    AOL Separation will not result in the recognition, for
    U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time
    Warner or its stockholders, except to the extent of cash
    received in lieu of fractional shares. In connection with the
    TWC Separation, Time Warner received a private letter ruling
    from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and opinions
    of counsel confirming that the TWC Separation should not result
    in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes,
    of gain or loss to Time Warner or its stockholders, except to
    the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. The
    IRS ruling and the opinions received in connection with these
    transactions were based on, among other things, certain facts,
    assumptions, representations and undertakings made by Time
    Warner and by AOL or TWC, as applicable. If any of these facts,
    assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not
    otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be
    able to rely on the relevant IRS ruling or opinion and could be
    subject to significant tax liabilities. Furthermore, opinions of
    counsel are not binding on the IRS or state or local tax
    authorities or the courts, and a tax authority or court could
    determine that the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation should
    be treated as a taxable transaction. Under the tax matters
    agreement that Time Warner entered into with AOL, Time Warner is
    entitled to indemnification from AOL for taxes resulting from
    the failure of the AOL Separation to qualify as tax-free
    (“AOL Transaction Taxes”) as a result of
    (i) certain actions or failures to act by AOL or
    (ii) the failure of certain representations made by AOL to
    be true. Similarly, under the tax matters agreement that Time
    Warner entered into with TWC, Time Warner is entitled to
    indemnification from TWC for taxes resulting from the failure of
    the TWC Separation to qualify as tax-free (“TWC Transaction
    Taxes” and, together with the AOL Transaction Taxes, the
    “Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain
    actions or failures to act by TWC or (ii) the failure of
    certain representations made by TWC to be true. However,





    
    21



Table of Contents





    under these tax matters agreements, if Transaction Taxes are
    incurred for any other reason, Time Warner would not be entitled
    to indemnification.


 


    The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation in
    the U.S. and internationally, which could cause the Company
    to incur additional costs or liabilities or disrupt its business
    practices. The Company’s businesses are
    subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and
    regulations. Cable networks in the United States are regulated
    by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and
    administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC.
    Time Inc.’s magazine subscription and direct marketing
    activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and the states
    under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting unfair or
    deceptive acts or practices, and certain areas of marketing
    activity are also subject to specific federal statutes and
    rules. In addition, the rules of the Audit Bureau of
    Circulations govern Time Inc.’s magazine subscription
    activities. The Company’s digital properties and activities
    are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including
    those relating to privacy, consumer protection, data retention
    and data protection, content regulation and the use of software
    that allows for audience targeting and tracking of performance
    metrics, among others.


 


    The U.S. Congress, state legislatures and various
    regulatory bodies currently are considering, and may in the
    future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding
    various matters that could, directly or indirectly, adversely
    affect the Company’s businesses. For example, in October
    2009, the FCC initiated a rulemaking to adopt so-called
    “net neutrality” rules which would, in part, require
    Internet service providers to adhere to new nondiscrimination
    and transparency principles in managing their networks, but
    would allow reasonable measures to address, among other things,
    network congestion and unlawful transfers of content, such as
    copyrighted material subject to piracy. From time to time, there
    has been consideration of the extension of indecency rules
    applicable to
    over-the-air
    broadcasters to cable and satellite programming and stricter
    enforcement of existing laws and rules. Also, the FCC initiated
    a proceeding in 2008 to examine the use of product placement and
    integration in television programming and sought comment on
    whether to enhance its existing sponsorship identification
    disclosure rules, extend such rules to cable networks and
    expressly prohibit the use of paid product placement or
    integration in children’s media. Policymakers have also
    raised concerns about violence in various forms of content,
    including television programming, motion pictures and
    interactive videogames, and a renewed interest in
    children’s media issues, which are currently the subject of
    an FCC inquiry. The Obama administration is also expected to
    focus on combating childhood obesity through advocacy and other
    efforts in 2010, including an interagency task force developing
    a voluntary nutrition standard for food and beverage marketing
    aimed at children 2-17 years old. Policymakers have also
    expressed interest in exploring whether cable operators should
    offer “à la carte” programming to subscribers on
    a
    network-by-network
    basis or provide “family-friendly” tiers, and a number
    of cable operators have voluntarily agreed to offer family
    tiers. The FCC also is examining the manner in which some
    programming distributors package or bundle services sold to
    distributors, and the same conduct is at issue in industry-wide
    antitrust litigation pending in Federal court in Los Angeles, in
    which the plaintiffs seek to prohibit wholesale bundling
    practices prospectively. The unbundling or tiering of program
    services may reduce the distribution of certain cable networks,
    thereby creating the risk of reduced viewership and increased
    marketing expenses, and may affect the ability of Turner’s
    advertising-supported networks to compete for or attract the
    same level of advertising dollars. A number of states have
    proposed “Do Not Mail” legislation, similar to Federal
    “Do Not Call” legislation, which would allow consumers
    to register their names on a list and not receive direct mail.
    The Senate Commerce Committee is currently investigating offers
    of free trial memberships in discount buying clubs made to
    customers following a customer’s credit card purchase from
    a merchant. While the investigation does not involve magazines,
    potential outcomes, such as certain restrictions on the transfer
    of credit card information, could adversely affect the
    Publishing segment’s business.


 


    The Company could incur substantial costs necessary to comply
    with new laws, regulations or policies or substantial penalties
    or other liabilities if it fails to comply with them. Compliance
    with new laws, regulations or policies also could cause the
    Company to change or limit its business practices in a manner
    that is adverse to its businesses. In addition, if there are
    changes in laws that provide protections that the Company relies
    on in conducting its business, it would subject the Company to
    greater risk of liability and could increase its costs of
    compliance or limit its ability to operate certain lines of
    business.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESS


 


    The loss of affiliation agreements, or renewal on less
    favorable terms, could cause the revenues of the Networks
    segment to decline in any given period, and further
    consolidation of multichannel video programming distributors
    could adversely affect the segment. The Networks
    segment depends on affiliation agreements with cable system
    operators, satellite distribution services, telephone companies
    and other customers (known as affiliates) for the distribution
    of its networks and services, and there can be no assurance that
    these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on
    terms that are acceptable to the Networks segment. The renewal
    of such agreements on less favorable terms may adversely affect
    the segment’s results of operations. In addition, the loss
    of any one of these arrangements representing a significant
    number of subscribers or the loss of carriage on the most widely
    penetrated programming tiers could reduce the distribution of
    the segment’s programming, which may adversely affect its
    advertising and subscription revenues. The loss of favorable
    packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities
    with any affiliate of the segment’s networks also could
    reduce subscription revenues. In addition, further consolidation
    among affiliates has provided them greater negotiating power,
    and increased vertical integration of such affiliates could
    adversely affect the segment’s ability to maintain or
    obtain distribution
    and/or
    marketing for its networks and services on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all.


 


    The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to
    popular programming could adversely affect the segment’s
    revenues. The Networks segment obtains a
    significant portion of its popular programming from third
    parties. For example, some of Turner’s most widely viewed
    programming, including sports programming, is made available
    based on programming rights of varying durations that it has
    negotiated with third parties, as well as other subsidiaries of
    the Company. Competition for popular programming is intense, and
    the businesses in the segment may be outbid by their competitors
    for the rights to new popular programming or in connection with
    the renewal of popular programming they currently license. In
    addition, renewal costs could substantially exceed the existing
    contract costs. Alternatively, third parties from which the
    segment obtains programming, such as professional sports teams
    or leagues, may create their own networks, which could reduce
    the amount of available content and further intensify
    competition for licensed programming.


 


    Increases in the costs of programming licenses and other
    significant costs may adversely affect the gross margins of the
    Networks segment. The Networks segment licenses a
    significant amount of its programming, such as motion pictures,
    television series, and sports events, from movie studios,
    television production companies and sports organizations. For
    example, the Turner Networks have obtained the rights to produce
    and telecast significant sports events, such as NBA play-off
    games, Major League Baseball play-off games and a series of
    NASCAR races. If the level of demand for quality content exceeds
    the amount of quality content available, the networks may have
    to pay significantly higher licensing costs, which in turn will
    exert greater pressure on the segment to offset such increased
    costs with higher advertising
    and/or
    subscription revenues. There can be no assurance that the
    Networks segment will be able to renew existing or enter into
    additional license agreements for its programming and, if so, if
    it will be able to do so on terms that are similar to existing
    terms. There also can be no assurance that it will be able to
    obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses over new
    distribution platforms on acceptable terms. If it is unable to
    obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable
    terms, the gross margins of the Networks segment may be
    adversely affected.


 


    The Networks segment produces programming, and it incurs costs
    for creative talent, including actors, writers and producers, as
    well as costs relating to development and marketing. The segment
    also incurs additional significant costs, such as production and
    newsgathering costs. The Networks segment’s failure to
    generate sufficient revenues to offset increases in the costs of
    creative talent or in development, marketing, production or
    newsgathering costs may lead to decreased profits at the
    Networks segment.


 


    The maturity of the U.S. video services business,
    together with rising retail rates, distributors’ focus on
    selling alternative products and other factors, could adversely
    affect the future revenue growth of the Networks
    segment. The U.S. video services business
    generally is a mature business, which may have a negative impact
    on the ability of the Networks segment to achieve incremental
    growth in its advertising and subscription revenues. In
    addition, programming distributors may increase their resistance
    to wholesale programming price increases, and programming
    distributors are increasingly focused on selling services other
    than video, such as high-speed data and voice services. Also,
    consumers’ basic video service rates have continued to
    increase, which could cause consumers





    
    23



Table of Contents





    to cancel their video service subscriptions or reduce the number
    of services they subscribe to, and the risk of this occurring
    may be greater during economic slowdowns.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
    BUSINESS


 


    A decrease in demand for television product could
    adversely affect Warner Bros.’
    revenues. Warner Bros. is a leading supplier of
    television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for
    Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the
    launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the
    number of original programs ordered by the networks, the
    per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near
    term and the syndication revenues generated by Warner Bros. in
    the future. Various factors may increase the risk of such a
    decrease in demand, including station group consolidation and
    vertical integration between station groups and broadcast
    networks, as well as the vertical integration of television
    production studios and broadcast networks, which can increase
    the networks’ reliance on their in-house or affiliated
    studios. In addition, the failure of ratings for the programming
    to meet expectations and the shift of viewers and advertisers
    away from network television to other entertainment and
    information outlets could adversely affect the amount and type
    (e.g., scripted drama) of original programming ordered by
    networks and the amount they are willing to pay for such
    programming. Local television stations may face loss of
    viewership and an accompanying loss of advertising revenues as
    viewers move to other entertainment outlets, which may
    negatively affect the segment’s ability to obtain the
    per-episode license fees in syndication that it has received in
    the past. Finally, the increasing popularity of local television
    content in international markets also could result in decreased
    demand, fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and
    syndication revenues for U.S. television content.


 


    If the costs of producing and marketing feature films
    increase in the future, it may be more difficult for a film to
    generate a profit. The production and marketing of
    feature films require substantial capital. In recent years, the
    costs of producing feature films have generally increased. If
    production and marketing costs increase in the future, it may
    make it more difficult for the segment’s films to generate
    a profit. Such increases also create a greater need for the
    Filmed Entertainment segment to generate revenues
    internationally or from other media, such as home entertainment,
    television and new media.


 


    Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films
    could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the
    amortization of film production costs. The Filmed
    Entertainment segment is required to amortize capitalized film
    production costs over the expected revenue streams as it
    recognizes revenues from the associated films. The amount of
    film production costs that will be amortized each quarter
    depends on how much future revenue the segment expects to
    receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are
    evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a
    film-by-film
    basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to
    recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but
    unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production
    costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter,
    if the segment lowers its forecast with respect to total
    anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would
    be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs.
    Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely
    affect the operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS


 


    The Publishing segment could face increased costs and
    business disruption resulting from instability in the wholesaler
    distribution channel. The Publishing segment
    operates a national distribution business that relies on
    wholesalers to distribute its magazines to newsstands and other
    retail outlets. A small number of wholesalers are responsible
    for a substantial percentage of the wholesale magazine
    distribution business in the U.S. In 2008 and 2009, there
    was significantly increased instability in the wholesaler
    channel that led to one major wholesaler leaving the business
    and to certain disruptions to magazine distribution. There is
    the possibility of further consolidation among these major
    wholesalers and insolvency of or non-payment by one or more of
    these wholesalers, especially in light of the economic climate
    and its impact on retailers. Distribution channel disruptions
    can temporarily impede the Publishing segment’s ability to
    distribute magazines to the retail marketplace, which could,
    among other things, negatively affect the ability of certain
    magazines to meet the rate base established with advertisers.
    Continued





    
    24



Table of Contents





    disruption in the wholesaler channel, an increase in wholesaler
    costs or the failure of wholesalers to pay amounts due could
    adversely affect the Publishing segment’s operating income
    or cash flow.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1B