Item 1A, “Risk Factors – Risks Relating
    to Time Warner Cable’s Business and the TWC
    Separation,” for a discussion of risk factors relating to
    the Separation and “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition – Recent Developments” for additional
    information regarding the Separation.



    
    1



Table of Contents





    Caution
    Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and Risk
    Factors


 


    This Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    includes certain “forward-looking statements” within
    the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
    1995. These statements are based on management’s current
    expectations or beliefs and are subject to uncertainty and
    changes in circumstances. Actual results may vary materially
    from the expectations contained herein due to changes in
    economic, business, competitive, technological, strategic
    and/or
    regulatory factors, the planned separation of TWC from the
    Company and other factors affecting the operation of the
    businesses of Time Warner. For more detailed information about
    these factors, and risk factors with respect to the
    Company’s operations, see Item 1A, “Risk
    Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Caution Concerning Forward-Looking
    Statements” below. Time Warner is under no obligation to
    (and expressly disclaims any obligation to) update or alter its
    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, subsequent events or otherwise.


 



    Available
    Information and Website


 


    The Company’s annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”),
    are available free of charge on the Company’s website at
    www.timewarner.com as soon as reasonably practicable
    after such reports are electronically filed with the SEC.


 



    AOL


 


    AOL LLC (together with its subsidiaries, “AOL”)
    operates a Global Web Services business that provides online
    advertising services worldwide on both the AOL Network and
    third-party Internet sites, referred to as the “Third Party
    Network.” AOL’s Global Web Services business also
    develops and operates the AOL Network, a leading network of web
    brands, free client software and services and a social media
    network for Internet consumers. In addition, through its Access
    Services business, AOL operates one of the largest Internet
    access subscription services in the U.S.


 


    AOL has transitioned from a business that has primarily focused
    on generating subscription revenues to one that is focused on
    attracting and engaging Internet consumers. Historically,
    AOL’s primary focus had been its Internet access business.
    In 2006, due in part to the growth of online advertising, AOL
    shifted its focus to its advertising business and began offering
    many of its services for free. Consequently, AOL’s focus is
    on growing its Global Web Services business, while managing
    costs in this business, as well as managing its declining
    subscriber base and related cost structure in its Access
    Services business. During 2008, AOL began separating its Access
    Services and Global Web Services businesses, which should
    enhance the operational focus and strategic options available
    for each business. As these businesses were historically highly
    integrated, this separation initiative has been complex. The
    Company anticipates that it will be in a position to manage
    AOL’s Access Services and Global Web Services businesses
    separately during 2009.


 



    Global
    Web Services


 


    AOL’s Global Web Services business is comprised of its
    Platform-A, MediaGlow and People Networks business units. As
    further discussed below, Platform-A sells advertising on the AOL
    Network and the Third Party Network, and MediaGlow and People
    Networks develop and operate websites, applications and services
    that are part of the AOL Network. In addition, AOL’s
    Products and Technologies group develops and operates components
    of the AOL Network, such as
    e-mail,
    toolbar and search. The AOL Network consists of a variety of
    websites, related applications and services, including those
    accessed generally via the Internet or via AOL’s Access
    Services business. Specifically, the AOL Network includes owned
    and operated websites, applications and services such as
    AOL.com,
    e-mail,
    MapQuest, Moviefone, Engadget, Asylum, international versions of
    the AOL portal and social media properties such as AIM, ICQ and
    Bebo. The AOL Network also includes TMZ.com, a joint
    venture with Telepictures Productions, Inc. (a subsidiary of
    Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.), as well as other co-branded



    
    2



Table of Contents




    websites owned by third parties for which certain criteria have
    been met, including that the Internet traffic has been assigned
    to AOL.


 


    AOL distributes its products and services through a variety of
    methods, including relationships with computer manufacturers and
    mobile carriers, and through search engine marketing and search
    engine optimization. In an effort to reach a broader audience,
    AOL is creating versions of certain of its products and services
    for consumer distribution on the Internet to generate activity
    on the AOL Network. Additionally, AOL seeks to provide
    technology to third parties that allows them to incorporate
    AOL’s content and services into their own websites and to
    enhance AOL’s products.


 


    AOL has expanded the AOL Network internationally and has
    AOL-branded and co-branded portals and websites in North and
    South America, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Additionally,
    AOL has launched international versions of certain websites,
    including Asylum, Autoblog, Bebo and Engadget.


 



    Platform-A


 


    In support of its shift in focus toward its
    advertising-supported web services business, in 2007 AOL formed
    a business unit within its Global Web Services business called
    Platform-A. Platform-A’s core focus is selling advertising
    on the AOL Network and the Third Party Network and licensing
    ad-serving technology to third-party websites. Platform-A offers
    to advertisers a range of capabilities and solutions, including
    optimization and targeting technologies, to deliver more
    effective advertising and reach specific audiences across the
    AOL Network and the Third Party Network. As of December 31,
    2008, AOL’s Platform-A business unit had operations in the
    United States and nine countries across Europe, as well as in
    Japan through a joint venture with Mitsui & Co., Ltd.


 


    Platform-A’s advertising services include customized
    programs, premier placement of advertising, text and banner
    advertising, mobile advertising, video advertising, rich media
    advertising, sponsorship of content offerings for designated
    time periods, local and classified advertising, contextual and
    audience targeting opportunities, search engine management and
    lead generation services. Online advertising arrangements
    generally involve payments by advertisers on a
    cost-per-impression
    basis (where the advertiser pays a fee based on the number of
    advertising impressions displayed), on a fixed-fee basis (where
    the advertiser pays for placement of an advertisement on a
    specific website for a fixed period of time) or on a
    pay-for-performance basis (where the advertiser pays based on
    the “click” or customer action resulting from the
    advertisement). To connect advertisers with online advertising
    inventory, Platform-A utilizes advertising inventory from the
    AOL Network and purchases advertising inventory from publishers
    of Third Party Network websites, using proprietary optimization
    and targeting technology to best match advertisers with
    available inventory.


 


    Advertising services on the AOL Network and the Third Party
    Network are primarily provided by Platform-A Inc. (formerly
    Advertising.com, Inc.) and its subsidiaries. During 2007 and the
    early part of 2008, AOL acquired several businesses to
    supplement its online advertising capabilities. These businesses
    include Third Screen Media LLC, a mobile advertising network and
    mobile ad-serving management platform provider, ADTECH AG
    (“ADTECH”), an international online ad-serving
    company, TACODA LLC, an online audience targeting advertising
    network, Quigo Technologies LLC, a site and content-targeting
    advertising company, and Perfiliate Limited (doing business as
    buy.at), which provides advertisers and publishers a platform
    for
    e-commerce
    marketing programs. During 2008, AOL substantially integrated
    the employees, products, technologies, systems and operations
    from these acquired businesses into the Platform-A business unit.


 


    AOL’s advertising technology systems are designed and
    managed to maintain availability and maximize performance.
    Platform-A uses a combination of in-house and third-party
    technologies to deliver advertisements across multiple networks
    and formats, including text, banners, rich media, video and
    mobile. Platform-A currently uses ad serving technology services
    provided by third parties such as DoubleClick, Inc., a
    subsidiary of Google Inc. (“Google”), along with
    Platform-A’s own ad serving technologies to manage the
    delivery of display advertising across the AOL Network and the
    Third Party Network. Platform-A intends to use primarily its own
    ad serving technologies by the second half of 2009. Platform-A
    utilizes delivery systems that determine the most effective and
    profitable advertisements to deliver on behalf of advertisers.
    This is achieved through the scheduling and delivery of
    advertisements based on a variety of factors, including audience
    segmentation and targeting, contextual relevance,



    
    3



Table of Contents




    content matching and other related factors. AOL’s
    businesses’ technology systems also feature automated tools
    that streamline its sales operations, including the setup and
    management of advertising campaigns.


 



    MediaGlow


 


    In January 2009, AOL announced the centralization of its
    publishing efforts in MediaGlow, a business unit within its
    Global Web Services business. Through MediaGlow, AOL seeks to
    attract and engage Internet consumers, including current and
    former AOL subscribers, on the AOL Network by offering
    compelling and differentiated free programming, applications and
    services. MediaGlow develops and operates websites that are part
    of the AOL Network, including AOL.com, Moviefone, Asylum and
    many other highly-targeted branded sites. As part of its effort
    to attract and engage Internet consumers, AOL has relaunched the
    AOL.com homepage and a number of its programming and commerce
    channels and, in 2008, launched a number of new targeted
    websites, including Asylum, The Boombox, StyleList, WalletPop
    and Lemondrop. In 2009, AOL intends to develop and deliver
    original programming and launch a number of new targeted
    websites through MediaGlow.


 



    People
    Networks


 


    In 2008, AOL formed its People Networks business unit, which
    includes its websites, applications and services on the AOL
    Network related to social media, such as AIM, Bebo and ICQ. The
    People Networks business unit offers Internet consumers
    platforms and instant communication tools for entertainment,
    self-expression and community and seeks to provide advertisers a
    way to engage those consumers. In 2009, through People Networks,
    AOL intends to continue to develop and offer integrated Bebo,
    AIM and ICQ applications and services.


 


    AOL acquired Bebo, Inc. (“Bebo”), a global social
    media network, in the second quarter of 2008.


 



    Access
    Services


 


    AOL’s Access Services business offers consumers an online
    subscription service in the U.S. and Canada that includes
    dial-up
    Internet access for a monthly fee. As of December 31, 2008,
    AOL had 6.9 million AOL brand Internet access subscribers
    in the U.S., which does not include registrations for the free
    AOL service. The primary price plans offered by AOL are $25.90
    and $11.99 per month, which provide varying levels of Internet
    access service, tools and services. In addition, AOL
    subsidiaries continue to provide the CompuServe and Netscape
    Internet access services.


 



    Products
    and Technologies


 


    In January 2009, AOL consolidated its Products and Technologies
    groups into one organization that supports its Global Web
    Services and Access Services businesses. This group manages the
    back-end infrastructure that supports both of these businesses
    and also develops and operates certain products and services
    that are part of the AOL Network, such as
    e-mail,
    client software, toolbar, search and MapQuest.


 


    AOL employs a multiple vendor strategy in designing, structuring
    and operating its backend infrastructure, which may include
    multi-year hardware, software, network and services agreements
    to support AOL’s businesses. These agreements include those
    related to AOLnet and the AOL Transit Data Network
    (“ADTN”). AOLnet, an Internet protocol (IP) network of
    third-party network service providers, is used for AOL’s
    Access Services business. The ATDN, built from routers and high
    bandwidth circuits purchased under both long-term and short-term
    agreements, provides Internet connectivity, including
    functioning as a conduit for Time Warner’s businesses. In
    connection with certain agreements, AOL may commit to purchase
    certain minimum levels of services
    and/or pay a
    fixed cost for services. AOL expects to continue to review its
    infrastructure arrangements in order to align its capabilities
    with market conditions and to manage costs.


 


    Improving and maintaining AOLnet and the ATDN involves
    substantial costs in telecommunications equipment and services.
    In addition to making cash purchases of telecommunications
    equipment, AOL also finances some of these purchases through
    leases.



    
    4



Table of Contents





    Google
    Alliance


 


    In April 2006, AOL, Google and Time Warner completed the
    issuance to Google of a 5% indirect equity interest in AOL and
    entered into agreements in March 2006 that expanded their
    existing strategic alliance. Under the expanded alliance, Google
    provides search services on the AOL Network and provides to AOL
    a share of the revenue generated through searches conducted on
    the AOL Network. In addition, Google provides AOL the use of a
    white-labeled, modified version of its advertising platform to
    enable AOL to sell search and contextually-targeted text based
    advertising directly to advertisers on AOL-owned properties,
    provides AOL with advertising credits for promotion of
    AOL’s properties on Google’s network and other
    promotional opportunities for AOL content, collaborates in video
    search and promotion of AOL’s video destination, and
    enables Google and AIM instant messaging users to communicate
    with each other. As part of the April 2006 transaction, Google
    also received certain registration rights relating to its equity
    interest in AOL. See “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Overview” for additional details.


 



    Competition


 


    AOL competes for the time and attention of consumers with a wide
    range of Internet companies, such as Yahoo! Inc.
    (“Yahoo!”), Google, Microsoft Corporation’s MSN,
    social networking sites such as Fox Interactive Media,
    Inc.’s MySpace (“MySpace”) and Facebook, Inc.
    (“Facebook”), and traditional media companies, which
    are increasingly offering their own Internet products and
    services. The Internet is dynamic and rapidly evolving, and new
    and popular competitors, such as social networking sites,
    frequently emerge. Internationally, AOL’s primary
    competitors are global enterprises such as Google, MSN and
    Yahoo!, newer entrants such as Facebook, MySpace and other
    social networking sites and a large number of local enterprises.


 


    In addition, AOL’s Platform-A business unit competes with
    other aggregators of third-party advertising inventory and other
    companies offering competing advertising products, technology
    and services, as well as, increasingly, aggregators of such
    advertising products, technology and services. In addition to
    those companies listed above, competitors include such companies
    as WPP Group plc (24/7 Real Media) and ValueClick, Inc., as well
    as traditional media companies seeking to increase their share
    of online advertising. Competition among these companies has
    been intensifying and may lead to continuing decreases in prices
    for certain advertising inventory, particularly in light of
    current economic conditions where advertisers in certain
    categories are lowering their marketing expenditures.


 


    In its Access Services business, AOL competes with other
    Internet access providers, especially broadband access providers.


 



    CABLE


 


    The Company’s cable business, Time Warner Cable Inc.
    (together with its subsidiaries, “TWC”), is the
    second-largest cable operator in the U.S., with technologically
    advanced, well-clustered systems located mainly in five
    geographic areas — New York State (including New York
    City), the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California (including Los
    Angeles) and Texas. As of December 31, 2008, TWC served
    approximately 14.6 million customers who subscribed to one
    or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services. In
    addition to its video, high-speed data and voice services, TWC
    sells advertising to a variety of national, regional and local
    customers.


 


    TWC is a public company subject to the requirements of the
    Exchange Act, and its Class A Common Stock trades on the
    New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol
    “TWC.” Time Warner currently owns approximately 84% of
    the common stock of TWC (including approximately 83% of the
    outstanding TWC Class A Common Stock and all outstanding
    shares of TWC Class B Common Stock and representing a 90.6%
    voting interest), and also currently owns an indirect 12.43%
    non-voting equity interest in TW NY, a subsidiary of TWC. On
    May 20, 2008, TWC and its subsidiaries TWE and TW NY
    entered into the Separation Agreement with Time Warner and its
    subsidiaries WCI, Historic TW and ATC, the terms of which will
    govern TWC’s legal and structural separation from Time
    Warner. For additional information, see “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Recent Developments.”



    
    5



Table of Contents





    Products
    and Services


 


    TWC offers video, high-speed data and voice services over its
    broadband cable systems. TWC markets its services separately and
    in “bundled” packages of multiple services and
    features. TWC customers who subscribe to a bundle receive a
    discount from the price of buying the services separately as
    well as the convenience of a single monthly bill. Increasingly,
    TWC’s customers subscribe to more than one primary service.
    As of December 31, 2008, 54% of TWC’s customers
    subscribed to two or more of its primary services, including 21%
    of its customers who subscribed to all three primary services.
    As part of an increased emphasis on its commercial business, TWC
    began selling voice services to small- and medium-sized
    businesses in the majority of its operating areas during 2007,
    and substantially completed the roll out in the remainder of its
    operating areas during 2008. TWC believes that providing
    commercial services will generate additional opportunities for
    growth.


 



    Residential
    Video Services


 


    Programming Tiers. TWC offers three main levels or
    “tiers” of video programming – Basic Service
    Tier (“BST”), Expanded Basic Service Tier (or Cable
    Programming Service Tier) (“CPST”) and Digital Basic
    Service Tier (“DBT”). BST generally includes broadcast
    television signals, satellite-delivered broadcast networks and
    superstations, local origination channels, a few specialty
    networks, such as C-SPAN and QVC, and public access, educational
    and government channels. CPST enables BST subscribers to add to
    their service national, regional and local cable news,
    entertainment and other specialty networks, such as CNN,
    A&E, ESPN, CNBC and Discovery. In certain areas, BST and
    CPST also include proprietary local programming devoted to the
    communities TWC serves, including
    24-hour
    local news channels in a number of cities. Together, BST and
    CPST provide customers with approximately 70 channels. DBT
    enables digital video subscribers (defined below) to add to
    their CPST service up to approximately 50 additional cable
    networks, including spin-off and successor networks to national
    cable services, news networks and niche programming services,
    such as History International and Biography. Generally,
    subscribers to CPST and DBT can purchase thematically-linked
    programming tiers, including movies, sports and Spanish language
    tiers, and subscribers to any tier of video programming can
    purchase premium services, such as HBO and Showtime.


 


    TWC’s video subscribers pay a fixed monthly fee based on
    the video programming tier they receive. Subscribers to
    specialized tiers and premium services are charged an additional
    monthly fee, with discounts generally available for the purchase
    of packages of more than one such service. The rates TWC can
    charge for its BST service in areas not subject to
    “effective competition” and certain video equipment,
    including set-top boxes, are subject to regulation under federal
    law. See “Regulatory Matters — Cable System
    Regulation — Video Services.”


 


    Transmission Technology. TWC’s video
    subscribers may receive service through analog transmissions, a
    combination of digital and analog transmissions or, in systems
    where TWC has fully deployed digital technology, digital
    transmissions only. Customers who receive any level of video
    service at their dwelling or commercial establishment via
    digital transmissions over TWC’s systems are referred to as
    “digital video subscribers.” As of December 31,
    2008, 49% of TWC’s homes passed, or approximately
    13.1 million customers, were basic video subscribers and of
    those, approximately 8.6 million (or 66%) were digital
    video subscribers.


 


    Digital video subscribers using a TWC-provided set-top box
    generally have access to an interactive program guide, Video on
    Demand (“VOD”), which is discussed below, music
    channels and seasonal sports packages. Digital video subscribers
    who receive premium services generally also receive
    “multiplex” versions of these services. Digital video
    subscribers will also have access to these services using a
    television enabled with tru2way technology, a common platform
    for set-top box applications, which TWC expects will be made
    available by third parties in mid-2009.


 


    On-Demand Services. On-Demand services are available
    to digital video subscribers using a TWC-provided set-top box
    or, when available, a
    tru2way-enabled
    television. Available On-Demand services include a wide
    selection of featured movies and special events, for which
    separate per-use fees are generally charged, and free access to
    selected movies, programs and program excerpts from broadcast
    and cable networks, music videos, local programming and other
    content. In addition, premium service (e.g., HBO) subscribers
    receiving services via a



    
    6



Table of Contents




    digital set-top box provided by TWC generally have access to the
    premium service’s On-Demand content without additional fees.


 


    Enhanced TV Services. TWC is expanding the use of
    VOD technology to introduce additional enhancements to the video
    experience. For instance, Start Over allows digital video
    subscribers using a set-top box provided by TWC to restart
    select “in progress” programs airing on participating
    cable and broadcast networks directly from the relevant channel,
    without the ability to fast-forward through commercials. As of
    December 31, 2008, Start Over was available to 47%, or
    approximately 4.0 million, of TWC’s digital video
    subscribers. TWC has begun rolling out other Enhanced TV
    features such as Look Back, which utilizes the Start Over
    technology to allow viewing of recently aired programs, and
    Quick Clips, which allows customers to view short-form content
    tied to the cable or broadcast network then being watched. TWC
    is also working to make available Catch Up, which will allow
    customers to view previously aired programs they have missed.


 


    HD Television. In its more advanced divisions, as of
    December 31, 2008, TWC offered up to 95 channels of
    high-definition (“HD”) television, or HDTV, and
    expects to continue to add additional HD programming during
    2009. In most divisions, HD simulcasts are provided at no
    additional charge, and additional charges apply only for HD
    channels that do not have standard-definition counterparts. In
    addition to its linear HD channels, TWC also offers VOD
    programming in HD and, on select channels, HD programming viewed
    using Start Over is presented in HD.


 


    DVRs. Set-top boxes equipped with digital video
    recorders (“DVRs”) enable customers, among other
    things, to pause
    and/or
    rewind “live” television programs and record programs
    on the hard drive built into the set-top box. TWC also offers HD
    DVRs, which enable customers to record HD programming.
    Subscribers pay an additional monthly fee for TWC’s DVR
    service. As of December 31, 2008, 47%, or approximately
    4.0 million, of TWC’s digital video subscribers also
    subscribed to its DVR service.


 



    Residential
    High-speed Data Services


 


    As of December 31, 2008, TWC offered residential high-speed
    data services to nearly all of its homes passed and
    approximately 8.4 million customers, or 32% of estimated
    high-speed data service-ready homes passed, subscribed to a
    residential high-speed data service. High-speed data subscribers
    connect to TWC’s cable systems using a cable modem, and pay
    a flat monthly fee based on the level of service received. In
    all of its operating areas, TWC offers four tiers of its Road
    Runner high-speed data service: Turbo, Standard, Basic and Lite
    and, in New York City, it also offers Extreme. Generally, each
    tier offers different speeds at a different monthly fee,
    although TWC is testing consumption-based pricing in one of its
    operating areas. In addition, in the majority of its operating
    areas, TWC provides Turbo subscribers with Powerboost, which
    allows users to initiate brief download speed bursts when
    TWC’s network capacity permits, and it is in the process of
    rolling Powerboost out to its Standard subscribers.


 


    TWC’s Road Runner service provides communication tools and
    personalized services, including
    e-mail, PC
    security, parental controls, news groups and online radio,
    without any additional charge. The Road Runner portal provides
    access to content and media from local, national and
    international providers and topic-specific channels, including
    entertainment, games, news, sports, travel, music, movie
    listings and shopping sites. In addition, in 2008, TWC launched
    the Road Runner Video Store, which permits subscribers to rent
    or purchase television shows and movies for online viewing.


 


    In addition to Road Runner, most of TWC’s cable systems
    provide their high-speed data subscribers with access to the
    services of certain other on-line providers, including Earthlink.


 



    Residential
    Voice Services


 


    Digital Phone. TWC offered its residential Digital
    Phone service to nearly all of its homes passed as of
    December 31, 2008. Most Digital Phone customers receive
    unlimited local, in-state and U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico
    calling and a number of calling features for a fixed monthly
    fee. TWC also offers additional calling plans with a variety of
    calling options that are designed to meet customers’
    particular needs, including a local-only calling plan, an
    unlimited in-state calling plan and an international calling
    plan. As of December 31, 2008, approximately



    
    7



Table of Contents




    3.7 million customers, or 14% of estimated voice
    service-ready homes passed, subscribed to residential Digital
    Phone.


 


    Digital Phone is delivered over the same system facilities used
    by TWC to provide video and high-speed data services. Under a
    multi-year agreement between TWC and Sprint Nextel Corporation
    (“Sprint”), Sprint assists TWC in providing Digital
    Phone service by routing voice traffic to and from destinations
    outside of TWC’s network via the public switched telephone
    network, delivering Enhanced 911 (“E911”) service and
    assisting in local number portability and long-distance traffic
    carriage.


 



    Commercial
    Services


 


    TWC has provided video, high-speed data and network and
    transport services to commercial customers for over a decade.
    During 2007, TWC began selling a commercial Digital Phone
    service, Business Class Phone, to small- and medium-sized
    businesses in the majority of its operating areas and
    substantially completed the roll out in the remainder of its
    operating areas during 2008. The introduction of Business
    Class Phone enables TWC to offer its commercial customers a
    bundle of video, high-speed data and voice services and to
    compete against bundled services from its competitors.


 


    Video Services. TWC offers commercial customers a
    full range of video programming tiers marketed under the
    “Time Warner Cable Business Class” brand. Packages are
    designed to meet the demands of a business environment by
    offering a wide variety of video services that enable businesses
    to entertain customers and stay abreast of news, weather and
    financial information. Similar to residential customers,
    commercial customers receive video services through analog
    transmissions, a combination of digital and analog transmissions
    or, in systems where TWC has fully deployed digital technology,
    digital transmissions only.


 


    High-speed Data Services. TWC offers commercial
    customers a variety of high-speed data services, including
    Internet access, website hosting and managed security. These
    services are offered to a broad range of businesses and are also
    marketed under the “Road Runner Business Class” brand.
    Commercial subscribers pay a flat monthly fee, which differs
    from the fee paid by residential subscribers, based on the level
    of service received. As of December 31, 2008, TWC had
    283,000 commercial high-speed data subscribers. In addition, TWC
    provides its high-speed data services to other cable operators
    for a fee, who in turn provide high-speed data services to their
    customers.


 


    Voice Services. During 2007 TWC introduced Business
    Class Phone, a business-grade phone service geared to
    small- and medium-sized businesses. As of December 31,
    2008, TWC had 30,000 Business Class Phone subscribers.


 


    Networking and Transport Services. TWC provides
    dedicated transmission capacity on its network to customers that
    desire high-bandwidth connections among locations. TWC also
    offers point-to-point circuits to wireless telephone providers
    and to other carrier and wholesale customers.


 



    Advertising


 


    TWC also generates revenues by selling advertising to a variety
    of national, regional and local customers. As part of the
    agreements under which it acquires video programming, TWC
    typically receives an allocation of scheduled advertising time
    in such programming, generally two or three minutes per hour,
    into which its systems can insert commercials. The clustering of
    TWC’s systems expands the number of viewers that TWC
    reaches within a local designated market area, which helps its
    local advertising sales business to compete more effectively
    with broadcast and other media. In addition, TWC has a strong
    presence in the country’s two largest advertising market
    areas, New York City and Los Angeles. In 2008, TWC and certain
    other cable operators formed a joint venture, Canoe Ventures
    LLC, focused on developing a common technology platform among
    cable operators for the delivery of advanced advertising
    products and services to be offered to programmers and
    advertisers.


 



    Technology


 


    Cable Systems. TWC transmits its video, high-speed
    data and voice signals on a hybrid fiber coaxial
    (“HFC”) network. As of December 31, 2008,
    virtually all of the homes passed by TWC’s cable systems
    were served by plant



    
    8



Table of Contents




    that had been upgraded to provide at least 750 megahertz of
    capacity. TWC believes that its network architecture is
    sufficiently flexible and extensible to support its current
    requirements. However, in order for TWC to continue to innovate
    and deliver new services to its customers, as well as meet its
    competitive needs, TWC anticipates that it will need to use the
    bandwidth available to its systems over the next few years. TWC
    believes that this can be achieved without costly upgrades. For
    example, to accommodate increasing demands for greater capacity
    in its network, TWC is deploying a technology known as switched
    digital video (“SDV”). SDV technology expands network
    capacity by transmitting only those digital and HD video
    channels that are being watched within a given grouping of
    households at any given moment. Since it is generally the case
    that not all such channels are being watched at all times by a
    given group of households, SDV technology frees up capacity that
    can then be made available for other uses. As of
    December 31, 2008, approximately 60% of TWC’s digital
    video subscribers received some portion of their video service
    via SDV technology, and TWC expects to continue to deploy SDV
    technology during 2009. For more information, see
    “Regulatory Matters — Cable System Regulation
    — Video Services — Switched Digital
    Video.”


 


    Set-top Boxes. Currently, TWC’s digital video
    subscribers must have either a TWC-provided digital set-top box
    or a “digital cable-ready” television or similar
    device equipped with a conditional-access security card
    (“CableCARD”) in order to receive digital video
    programming. However, a “digital cable-ready”
    television or similar device equipped with a CableCARD cannot
    request certain digital signals that are necessary to receive
    TWC’s two-way video services, such as VOD, channels
    delivered via SDV technology and the interactive program guide.
    In order to receive TWC’s two-way video services, customers
    generally must have a TWC-provided digital set-top box.
    Tru2way-enabled
    televisions and other devices with tru2way technology will also
    be able to receive TWC’s two-way video services. TWC
    purchases set-top boxes and CableCARDs from a limited number of
    suppliers and leases these devices to subscribers at monthly
    rates.


 


    High-Speed Data and Voice Connectivity. TWC delivers
    high-speed data and voice services through TWC’s HFC
    network, regional fiber networks that are either owned or leased
    from third parties and through backbone networks that provide
    connectivity to the Internet and are operated by third parties.
    TWC pays fees for leased circuits based on the amount of
    capacity available to TWC and pays for Internet connectivity
    based on the amount of data and voice traffic received from and
    sent over the provider’s network. TWC also has entered into
    a number of “settlement-free peering” arrangements
    with affiliated and third-party networks that allow TWC to
    exchange traffic with those networks without a fee.


 



    Video
    Programming


 


    TWC carries local broadcast stations pursuant to either the
    Federal Communication Commission (“FCC”) “must
    carry” rules or a written retransmission consent agreement
    with the relevant station owner. Broadcasters recently made
    their elections for the current three-year carriage cycle, which
    began on January 1, 2009, and TWC has multi-year
    transmission consent agreements in place with most of the
    retransmission consent stations it carries. Cable networks and
    premium services are carried pursuant to written affiliation
    agreements. TWC generally pays a fixed monthly per-subscriber
    fee for such services and sometimes pays a fee for broadcast
    stations that elect retransmission consent. Such fees typically
    cover the network or the station’s linear feed as well as
    its free On-Demand content. For more information, see
    “Regulatory Matters — Cable System
    Regulation — Video Services — Carriage of
    Broadcast Television Stations and Other Programming
    Regulation.” Payments to the providers of some premium
    services may be based on a percentage of TWC’s gross
    receipts from subscriptions to the services. Generally, TWC
    obtains rights to carry VOD movies and
    Pay-Per-View
    events and to sell
    and/or rent
    online video programming via the Road Runner Video Store through
    iN Demand L.L.C., a company in which TWC holds a minority
    interest. In some instances, TWC contracts directly with film
    studios for VOD carriage rights for movies. Such VOD content is
    generally provided to TWC under revenue-sharing arrangements.


 



    Wireless
    Ventures


 


    In November 2008, TWC, Intel Corporation, Google, Comcast
    Corporation (“Comcast”) and Bright House Networks, LLC
    (together with TWC, Intel Corporation, Google and Comcast, the
    “Clearwire Investors”) collectively invested
    $3.2 billion in Clearwire Corporation, a wireless broadband
    communications company



    
    9



Table of Contents




    (“Clearwire Corp”), and one of its operating
    subsidiaries, Clearwire Communications LLC (“Clearwire
    LLC,” and, collectively with Clearwire Corp,
    “Clearwire”). TWC invested $550 million for
    membership interests in Clearwire LLC and received voting and
    board of director nomination rights in Clearwire Corp. Clearwire
    LLC was formed by the combination of Sprint Nextel
    Corporation’s (“Sprint”) and Clearwire
    Corp’s respective wireless broadband businesses and is
    focused on deploying the first nationwide fourth-generation
    wireless network to provide mobile broadband services to
    wholesale and retail customers. In connection with the
    transaction, TWC entered into a wholesale agreement with Sprint
    that allows TWC to offer wireless services utilizing
    Sprint’s second-generation and third-generation network and
    a wholesale agreement with Clearwire that will allow TWC to
    offer wireless services utilizing Clearwire’s mobile
    broadband wireless network.


 


    TWC is also a participant in a joint venture with certain other
    cable companies (“SpectrumCo”) that holds advanced
    wireless spectrum (“AWS”) licenses. In January 2009,
    SpectrumCo redeemed the 10.9% interest held by an affiliate of
    Cox Communications, Inc. (“Cox”), and Cox received AWS
    licenses, principally covering areas in which Cox has cable
    services, and approximately $70 million in cash (of which
    TWC’s share was $22 million). Following the closing of
    the Cox transaction, SpectrumCo’s AWS licenses cover
    20 MHz of AWS over 80% of the continental United States and
    Hawaii.


 



    Competition


 


    TWC faces intense competition from a variety of alternative
    information and entertainment delivery sources, principally from
    direct-to-home satellite video providers and certain telephone
    companies, each of which offers a broad range of services that
    provide features and functions comparable to those provided by
    TWC. The services are also offered in bundles of video,
    high-speed data and voice services similar to TWC’s and, in
    certain cases, these offerings include wireless services. The
    availability of these bundled service offerings and of wireless
    offerings, whether as a single offering or as part of a bundle,
    has intensified competition. In addition, technological advances
    and product innovations have increased and will likely continue
    to increase the number of alternatives available to TWC’s
    customers from other providers and intensify the competitive
    environment.


 



    Principal
    Competitors


 


    Direct Broadcast Satellite. TWC’s video
    services face competition from direct broadcast satellite
    (“DBS”) services, such as DISH Network Corporation
    (“DISH Network”) and DirecTV Group Inc.
    (“DirecTV”). DISH Network and DirecTV offer
    satellite-delivered pre-packaged programming services that can
    be received by relatively small and inexpensive receiving
    dishes. These providers offer aggressive promotional pricing,
    exclusive programming (e.g., “NFL League Pass”) and
    video services that are comparable in many respects to
    TWC’s digital video services, including TWC’s DVR
    service and some of its interactive programming features. In
    some areas, incumbent local telephone companies and DBS
    operators have entered into co-marketing arrangements that allow
    both parties to offer synthetic bundles (i.e., video service
    provided principally by the DBS operator, and digital subscriber
    line (“DSL”), traditional phone service and, in some
    cases, wireless service provided by the telephone company).


 


    Local Telephone Companies. TWC’s video,
    high-speed data and Digital Phone services face competition from
    the video, DSL, wireless broadband and traditional and wireless
    phone offerings of AT&T Inc. (“AT&T”) and
    Verizon Communications Inc. (“Verizon”). In a number
    of TWC’s operating areas, AT&T and Verizon have
    upgraded portions of their networks to carry two-way video,
    high-speed data and
    IP-based
    telephony services, each of which is similar to the
    corresponding service offered by TWC. Moreover, AT&T and
    Verizon market and sell service bundles of video, high-speed
    data and voice services plus wireless services, and they also
    market cross-platform features with their wireless services,
    such as remote DVR control from a wireless handset. TWC also
    faces competition from the DSL, wireless broadband and phone
    offerings of smaller incumbent local telephone companies.


 


    Cable Overbuilds. TWC operates its cable systems
    under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local
    authorities. The existence of more than one cable system
    operating in the same territory is referred to as an
    “overbuild.” In some of TWC’s operating areas,
    other operators have overbuilt TWC’s systems and offer
    video, high-speed data and voice services in competition with
    TWC.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Other
    Competition and Competitive Factors


 


    In addition to competing with the video, high-speed data and
    voice services offered by DBS providers, local incumbent
    telephone companies and cable overbuilders, each of TWC’s
    services also faces competition from other companies that
    provide services on a stand-alone basis.


 


    Video Competition. TWC’s video services face
    competition from a number of different sources, including
    companies that deliver movies, television shows and other video
    programming over broadband Internet connections, such as
    Hulu.com, as well as online order services with mail delivery,
    and video stores and home video services. Increasingly, content
    owners are using Internet-based delivery of content directly to
    consumers, often without charging a fee for access to the
    content. Furthermore, due to consumer electronics innovations,
    consumers will over time be more readily able to watch such
    Internet-delivered content on television sets.


 


    “Online” Competition. TWC’s
    high-speed data services face or may face competition from a
    variety of companies that offer other forms of online services,
    including low cost
    dial-up
    services over ordinary telephone lines and third-generation
    wireless broadband services, such as those offered by Verizon,
    AT&T, Sprint and
    T-Mobile
    USA, Inc., and developing technologies, such as
    fourth-generation wireless services, Internet service via power
    lines, satellite and various other wireless services (e.g.,
    Wi-Fi).


 


    Digital Phone Competition. TWC’s Digital Phone
    service competes with traditional and wireless phone providers,
    and an increasing number of homes in the U.S. are replacing
    their traditional telephone service with wireless phone service.
    TWC also competes with national providers of
    IP-based
    telephony products, such as Vonage Holdings Corp.
    (“Vonage”), Skype and magicJack, and companies that
    sell phone cards at a cost per minute for both national and
    international service. The increase in the number of different
    technologies capable of carrying voice services has intensified
    the competitive environment in which TWC operates its Digital
    Phone service.


 


    Commercial Competition. TWC’s commercial video,
    high-speed data, voice and networking and transport services
    face competition from local incumbent telephone companies,
    especially AT&T and Verizon, as well as from a variety of
    other national and regional business services competitors.


 



    FILMED
    ENTERTAINMENT


 


    The Company’s Filmed Entertainment businesses produce and
    distribute theatrical motion pictures, television shows,
    animation and other programming and videogames, distribute home
    video product, and license rights to the Company’s feature
    films, television programming and characters. All of the
    foregoing businesses are principally conducted by various
    subsidiaries and affiliates of Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc.,
    known collectively as the Warner Bros. Entertainment Group
    (“Warner Bros.”), and New Line Cinema Corporation
    (“New Line”). To increase operational efficiencies and
    maximize performance within the Filmed Entertainment segment,
    the Company reorganized the New Line business in 2008 to be
    operated as a unit of Warner Bros.


 



    Feature
    Films


 



    Warner
    Bros.


 


    Warner Bros. produces feature films both wholly on its own and
    under co-financing arrangements with others, and also
    distributes its films and completed films produced by others.
    Warner Bros.’ feature films are produced under both the
    Warner Bros. Pictures and Castle Rock banners. Warner
    Independent Pictures (“WIP”), a producer and acquirer
    of smaller budget and alternative films, ceased operations in
    October 2008. The terms of Warner Bros.’ agreements with
    independent producers and other entities are separately
    negotiated and vary depending upon the production, the amount
    and type of financing by Warner Bros., the media and territories
    covered, the distribution term and other factors.


 


    Warner Bros.’ strategy focuses on offering a diverse slate
    of films with a mix of genres, talent and budgets that includes
    several “event” movies per year. In response to the
    high cost of producing theatrical films, Warner Bros. has
    entered into certain film co-financing arrangements with other
    companies, decreasing its financial risk while in most cases
    retaining substantially all worldwide distribution rights.
    During 2008, Warner Bros released 15 original



    
    11



Table of Contents




    motion pictures for worldwide theatrical exhibition, including
    The Dark Knight, 10,000 B.C., Get Smart,
    Yes Man and Gran Torino. Of the total 2008
    releases, seven were wholly financed by Warner Bros. and eight
    were financed with or by others. WIP released two films in 2008,
    including Snow Angels.


 


    Warner Bros. has co-financing arrangements with Village Roadshow
    Pictures and Legendary Pictures, LLC. Additionally, Warner Bros.
    has an exclusive distribution arrangement with Alcon
    Entertainment for distribution of all of Alcon’s motion
    pictures in domestic and certain international territories. In
    2006, Warner Bros. also entered into an exclusive multi-year
    distribution agreement with Dark Castle Holdings, LLC, under
    which Warner Bros. will distribute 15 Dark Castle feature films
    in the U.S. and, generally, in all international
    territories. Each of these feature films will be 100% financed
    by Dark Castle. Through 2008, Warner Bros. has distributed one
    film, RocknRolla, under this agreement.


 


    Warner Bros. distributes feature films for theatrical exhibition
    to more than 125 international territories. In 2008, Warner
    Bros. released internationally 14
    English-language
    motion pictures and 35
    local-language
    films that it either produced or acquired.


 


    After their theatrical exhibition, Warner Bros. licenses its
    newly produced films, as well as films from its library, for
    distribution on broadcast, cable, satellite and pay television
    channels both domestically and internationally, and it also
    distributes its films on DVD and in various digital formats.


 



    New
    Line


 


    New Line also produces and releases feature films both wholly on
    its own and under co-financing arrangements with others. Like
    Warner Bros., New Line’s strategy focuses on offering a
    diverse slate of films with an emphasis on building and
    leveraging franchises. Included in its nine films released
    during 2008 were Sex and the City: The Movie, Journey
    to the Center of the Earth and Four Christmases.


 


    Warner Bros. provides domestic distribution services for New
    Line releases. Prior to the reorganization of the New Line
    business under Warner Bros., New Line typically pre-sold the
    international rights to its films on a
    territory-by-territory
    basis while retaining a share in each film. However, beginning
    with films commencing principal photography after
    January 1, 2009, New Line films will be distributed
    internationally through the Warner Bros. infrastructure and the
    international rights are not expected to be pre-sold other than
    with respect to certain films subject to existing output
    agreements.


 


    New Line entered into a two-year co-financing transaction
    arranged by The Royal Bank of Scotland in February 2007. As of
    February 2009, the Royal Bank of Scotland had satisfied its
    investment obligations pursuant to this co-financing transaction.


 


    Picturehouse, a producer and distributor of independent films
    that was formed in 2005 and jointly owned by New Line and Home
    Box Office, Inc., ceased operations in October 2008. This
    venture released five films in 2008, including Kit Kittredge:
    An American Girl and The Women.


 



    Home
    Entertainment


 


    Warner Home Video (“WHV”), a division of Warner Bros.
    Home Entertainment Inc. (“WBHE”), distributes for home
    video use DVDs containing filmed entertainment product produced
    or otherwise acquired by the Company’s various
    content-producing subsidiaries and divisions, including Warner
    Bros. Pictures, Warner Bros. Television, New Line, Home Box
    Office and Turner Broadcasting System. Significant WHV releases
    during 2008 included The Dark Knight, I Am Legend
    and Sex and the City: The Movie. WHV produces and
    distributes DVDs from new content generated by the Company as
    well as from the Company’s extensive filmed entertainment
    library of thousands of feature films, television titles and
    animated titles. WHV also distributes other companies’
    product, including DVDs for BBC, National Geographic and
    national sports leagues in the U.S., and has similar
    distribution relationships with producers outside the U.S.


 


    WHV sells and licenses its product for resale in the
    U.S. and in major international territories to retailers
    and wholesalers through its own sales force, with warehousing
    and fulfillment handled by third parties. DVD product is
    replicated by third parties, with replication for the U.S.,
    Canada, Europe and Mexico provided for under a long-term



    
    12



Table of Contents




    contract. In some countries, WHV’s product is distributed
    through licensees. WHV distributes packaged media product in the
    standard-definition DVD format and, through May 2008, it
    distributed product in both of the HD DVD and Blu-ray
    high-definition formats. In June 2008, WHV commenced
    distributing its high-definition products exclusively in the
    Blu-ray format.


 


    Warner Premiere, a division of Warner Specialty Films Inc.
    established in 2006, develops and produces filmed entertainment
    that is distributed initially through DVD sales
    (“direct-to-video”) and short-form content that is
    distributed through online and wireless platforms. Warner
    Premiere released seven direct-to-video titles in 2008. In
    addition, in 2008, Warner Premiere Digital released several
    motion comics series, which incorporate various animation
    features into comic book artwork, including The Watchmen,
    Batman: Black & White and Batman: Mad Love
    based on DC Comics properties, as well as The Peanuts
    Motion Comics based on the classic Charles Schulz series.
    Superman: Red Son, also based on a DC Comics property, is
    expected to be released in 2009.


 


    Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment (“WBIE”), a
    division of WBHE, develops, publishes and licenses interactive
    videogames for a variety of platforms based on Warner Bros. and
    DC Comics properties, as well as original game properties. In
    December 2007, the WBHE group acquired TT Games Limited, a
    U.K.-based developer and publisher of videogames, including the
    LEGO Star Wars videogame franchise. In 2008, WBIE
    continued to expand its games publishing business by increasing
    its development capabilities and relationships, entering into
    several new videogame distribution agreements and further
    leveraging the global distribution infrastructure of WHV. In
    2008, WBIE published three of its own videogame titles
    worldwide, LEGO Batman, Speed Racer and
    Guinness World Records, and co-published Lego Indiana
    Jones, which was distributed worldwide by a third party.
    WBIE also published, co-published or distributed a number of
    additional third party videogame titles primarily in North
    America.


 



    Television


 


    Warner Bros. Television Group (“WBTVG”) is one of the
    world’s leading suppliers of television programming,
    distributing programming in the U.S. as well as in more
    than 200 international territories and in more than
    45 languages. WBTVG both develops and produces new
    television series, made-for-television movies, reality-based
    entertainment shows and animation programs and also licenses
    programming from the Warner Bros. library for exhibition on
    media all over the world.


 


    WBTVG programming is primarily produced by Warner Bros.
    Television (“WBTV”), a division of WB Studio
    Enterprises Inc. that produces primetime dramatic and comedy
    programming for the major broadcast networks and for cable
    networks; Warner Horizon Television Inc. (“Warner
    Horizon”), which specializes in unscripted programming for
    broadcast networks as well as scripted and unscripted
    programming for cable networks; and Telepictures Productions
    Inc. (“Telepictures”), which specializes in
    reality-based and talk/variety series for the syndication and
    daytime markets. For the
    2008-09
    season, WBTV is producing, among others, Smallville and
    Gossip Girl for The CW Television Network (“The
    CW”) and Two and a Half Men, Without a Trace, Cold
    Case, The Big Bang Theory, ER and The
    Mentalist for other broadcast networks. WBTV also produces
    original series for cable networks, including The Closer
    and Nip/Tuck. Warner Horizon produces the primetime
    reality series The Bachelor and America’s
    Best Dance Crew. Telepictures produces first-run syndication
    staples such as Extra and the talk shows The Ellen
    DeGeneres Show and Tyra, as well as TMZ, a
    series based on the top entertainment website TMZ.com.


 


    Warner Bros. Animation Inc. (“WBAI”) is responsible
    for the creation, development and production of contemporary
    animated television programming and original made-for-DVD
    releases, including the popular Scooby Doo and Tom and
    Jerry series. WBAI also oversees the creative use of, and
    production of animated programming based on, classic animated
    characters from Warner Bros., including Looney Tunes, and
    from the Hanna-Barbera and DC Comics libraries.


 



    Digital
    Media


 


    Warner Bros. Digital Distribution (“WBDD”), a division
    of WBHE, enters into domestic and international licensing
    arrangements for distribution of Warner Bros.’ film and
    television content through both VOD
    and/or



    
    13



Table of Contents




    permanent download or electronic sell-through (“EST”)
    transactions via cable, IPTV systems, satellite and online
    services for delivery to households, hotels and other viewers
    worldwide. WBDD licenses film and television content for both
    VOD and EST to cable and satellite partners such as Comcast,
    TWC, DirecTV and DISH Network, as well as broadband customers
    including Apple Inc.’s iTunes, Amazon.com, Inc.’s
    Video on Demand, Microsoft Corporation’s Xbox 360,
    Sony’s Playstation 3 and Blockbuster. WBDD has also
    licensed movies to Netflix’s subscription on demand
    service. In 2008, WBDD broadened its VOD content release
    strategy by initiating the release, both domestically and in 12
    international territories, of selected films through VOD on the
    same date as their release on DVD and EST.


 


    In 2008, WBDD also made films available for mobile VOD offerings
    in five countries and entered into arrangements with a number of
    mobile handset and PC manufacturers to pre-load films onto their
    devices to be marketed to consumers. In addition to its content
    licensing activities, WBDD manages Warner Bros.’ direct to
    consumer retail website warnervideo.com. In partnership
    with WBIE, WBDD expanded its digital distribution strategy to
    include the distribution of interactive videogames online and to
    offer videogames for sale on the iTunes Apps store.


 


    WBDD entered into several licenses in 2008 to make Warner Bros.
    content available for
    manufacturing-on-demand
    services, whereby content is selected by the consumer online or
    at an in-store kiosk and then burned onto discs or other
    electronic storage devices for delivery to the consumer. These
    services are expected to launch in 2009.


 


    WBDD is also working with WHV to expand its digital copy
    offerings, which make electronic copies of movies available to
    consumers who purchase specially marked DVDs, either by entering
    a code included in the DVD packaging that allows consumers to
    download a file containing the film or by placing an electronic
    copy of the film directly on the DVD that the consumer can
    upload. In 2008, digital copies were offered to purchasers of
    DVDs on 33 titles in the United States and digital copy
    offers were also made available for certain titles in eight
    international territories.


 


    WBTVG’s online destination TMZ.com, a joint venture
    with AOL, is one of the leading entertainment news websites in
    the U.S. In 2007, WBTVG launched its second online
    destination, MomLogic.com, which also serves as the
    portal of an online advertising network targeting mothers, and
    in 2008, WBTVG launched the destination sites TheWB.com
    and KidsWB.com, and re-launched Essence.com,
    in conjunction with Time Inc.’s Essence magazine. In
    2009, WBTVG plans to launch one or more additional destination
    sites. WBTVG’s digital production venture, Studio 2.0,
    continues to create original programming for online and wireless
    distribution.


 


    Many of WBTVG’s current on-air television series are
    available on demand via broadband and wireless streaming and
    downloading and cable VOD platforms under agreements entered
    into with the broadcast and cable networks exhibiting the
    series. Pursuant to those agreements, the networks have the
    right to offer each series episode on demand for a limited
    period of time after the episode airs and WBTVG retains the
    right to offer permanent downloads of current episodes during
    the same timeframe and, increasingly, WBTVG has the right to
    offer online streaming of current series episodes at the end of
    a broadcast year. WBTVG also distributes certain off-air, or
    library, television series online in the U.S. through
    TheWB.com and other destination sites, and through
    distribution agreements with third party video exhibition sites.
    Internationally, WBTVG has a number of Warner Bros. branded
    on-demand program services, which, as of December 31, 2008,
    included five services in the U.K., two in France, two in Japan
    and one in each of Italy, Germany, Austria and China. In
    addition, WBTVG operates a linear Warner Bros. branded general
    entertainment channel in Latin America.


 



    Other
    Entertainment Assets


 


    Warner Bros. Consumer Products Inc. licenses rights in both
    domestic and international markets to the names, likenesses,
    images, logos and other representations of characters and
    copyrighted material from the films and television series
    produced or distributed by Warner Bros., including the superhero
    characters of DC Comics, Hanna-Barbera characters, classic films
    and Looney Tunes.


 


    Warner Bros. and CBS Corporation (“CBS”) each
    have a 50% interest in The CW, a broadcast network launched at
    the beginning of the Fall 2006 broadcast season. For additional
    information, see “Networks,” below.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Warner Bros. International Cinemas Inc. holds interests, either
    wholly owned or through joint ventures, in 90 multi-screen
    cinema complexes, with over 700 screens in Japan, Italy and
    the U.S. as of December 31, 2008.


 


    DC Comics, wholly owned by the Company, publishes a wide array
    of graphic novels and an average of over 90 comic book
    titles per month, featuring such popular characters as
    Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman and The Sandman. DC
    Comics also derives revenues from motion pictures, television,
    videogames and merchandise. The Company also owns E.C.
    Publications, Inc., the publisher of MAD magazine.


 


    In 2007, Warner Bros. entered into a long-term, multi-faceted
    strategic alliance with ALDAR Properties PJSC, an Abu Dhabi real
    estate development company, and Abu Dhabi Media Company, a newly
    established media company owned by the Abu Dhabi government, to
    develop certain entertainment related projects in Abu Dhabi.
    Some of the initial projects under the strategic alliance will
    include the creation of a theme park and resort hotel branded
    with Warner Bros. intellectual property, the development of
    jointly owned multiplex theatres, an agreement for the
    co-financing and distribution of interactive videogames and a
    film co-financing and distribution arrangement.


 



    Competition


 


    The production and distribution of theatrical motion pictures,
    television, videogame and animation product and DVDs are highly
    competitive businesses, as each vies with the other, as well as
    with other forms of entertainment and leisure time activities,
    including Internet streaming and downloading, websites providing
    social networking and user-generated content, interactive games
    and other online activities, for consumers’ attention.
    Furthermore, there is increased competition in the television
    industry evidenced by the increasing number and variety of
    broadcast networks and basic cable and pay television services
    now available. Despite this increasing variety of networks and
    services, access to primetime and syndicated television slots
    has actually tightened as networks and owned and operated
    stations increasingly source programming from content producers
    aligned with or owned by their parent companies. There is active
    competition among all production companies in these industries
    for the services of producers, directors, writers, actors and
    others and for the acquisition of literary properties. With
    respect to the distribution of television product, there is
    significant competition from independent distributors as well as
    major studios. Revenues for filmed entertainment product depend
    in part upon general economic conditions, but the competitive
    position of a producer or distributor is still greatly affected
    by the quality of, and public response to, the entertainment
    product it makes available to the marketplace.


 


    Warner Bros. also competes in its character merchandising and
    other licensing activities with other licensors of character,
    brand and celebrity names.


 



    NETWORKS


 


    The Company’s Networks business consists principally of
    domestic and international networks and premium pay television
    programming services. The networks owned by Turner Broadcasting
    System, Inc. (“Turner”) are collectively referred to
    as the “Turner Networks.” Premium pay television
    programming consists of the multi-channel HBO and Cinemax pay
    television programming services (collectively, the “Home
    Box Office Services”) operated by Home Box Office, Inc.
    (“Home Box Office”).


 


    The programming of the Turner Networks and the Home Box Office
    Services (collectively, the “Networks”) is distributed
    via cable, satellite and other distribution technologies.


 


    The Turner Networks generate revenues principally from the
    receipt of monthly subscriber fees paid by cable system
    operators, satellite distribution services, telephone companies
    and other customers (known as affiliates) that have contracted
    to receive and distribute such networks and from the sale of
    advertising (other than Turner Classic Movies and Boomerang,
    which sell advertising only in certain international markets).
    The Home Box Office Services generate revenues principally from
    fees paid by affiliates (as defined above) for the delivery of
    the Home Box Office Services to subscribers, who are generally
    free to cancel their subscriptions at any time. Home Box
    Office’s agreements with its affiliates are typically
    long-term arrangements that provide for annual service fee
    increases and retail promotion activities and have fee
    arrangements that are generally related to the number of



    
    15



Table of Contents




    subscribers served by the affiliate. The Home Box Office
    Services and their affiliates engage in ongoing marketing and
    promotional activities to retain existing subscribers and
    acquire new subscribers. Home Box Office also derives revenues
    from its original films, mini-series and series through the sale
    of DVDs, as well as from its licensing of original programming
    in syndication and to basic cable channels.


 


    Advertising revenues consist of consumer advertising, which is
    sold primarily on a national basis in the U.S. and on a
    pan-regional or
    local-language
    feed basis outside of the U.S. Advertising contracts
    generally have terms of one year or less. Outside of the U.S.,
    advertising is generally sold on a per-spot basis. Advertising
    revenues are generated from a wide variety of categories,
    including financial and business services, pharmaceuticals and
    medical, food and beverage, automotive and movie studios. In the
    U.S., advertising revenues are a function of the size and
    demographics of the audience delivered, the “CPM,”
    which is the cost per thousand viewers delivered, and the number
    of units of time sold. Units sold and CPMs are influenced by the
    quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the audience of
    each network, the perceived quality of the network and of the
    particular programming, as well as overall advertiser demand in
    the marketplace.


 



    Turner
    Networks


 



    Domestic
    Networks


 


    Turner’s entertainment networks include two general
    entertainment networks, TBS, which reached approximately
    98.9 million U.S. television households as reported by
    Nielsen Media Research (“U.S. television
    households”) as of December 2008; and TNT, which reached
    approximately 98.0 million U.S. television households
    as of December 2008; as well as Cartoon Network (including
    Adult Swim, its overnight block of contemporary animation
    aimed at young adults), which reached approximately
    97.7 million U.S. television households as of December
    2008; truTV (formerly Court TV), which reached approximately
    91.1 million U.S. television households as of December
    2008; Turner Classic Movies, a commercial-free network
    presenting classic films; and Boomerang, an animation network
    featuring classic cartoons. HD feeds of TBS, TNT and Cartoon
    Network are available. Programming for these entertainment
    networks is derived, in part, from the Company’s film,
    made-for-television and animation libraries to which Turner or
    other divisions of the Company own the copyrights, sports
    programming and licensed programming, including network movie
    premieres and original and syndicated series.


 


    For its sports programming, Turner has a programming rights
    agreement with the National Basketball Association
    (“NBA”) to produce and telecast a certain number of
    regular season and playoff games on TNT through the
    2015-16
    season. In January 2008, Turner entered into a separate
    agreement with the NBA, effective for the
    2008-09
    season through the
    2015-16
    season, under which Turner and the NBA jointly manage a
    portfolio of the NBA’s digital businesses and NBA TV and
    NBA League Pass. Turner also has a programming rights agreement
    with Major League Baseball to produce and telecast a certain
    number of regular season and playoff games on TBS through the
    2013 season. In addition, Turner has secured rights to produce
    and telecast certain NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races through 2014.


 


    Turner’s CNN and HLN (formerly CNN Headline News) networks,
    24-hour per
    day cable television news services, reached approximately
    98.3 million and 98.2 million U.S. television
    households, respectively, as of December 2008. An HD feed of CNN
    also is available. As of December 31, 2008, CNN managed 46
    news bureaus and editorial operations, of which 13 are located
    in the U.S.


 



    International
    Networks


 


    Turner’s entertainment and news networks are distributed to
    multiple distribution platforms such as cable and IPTV systems,
    satellite platforms, mobile operators and broadcasters for
    delivery to households, hotels and other viewers around the
    world.


 


    The entertainment networks distribute approximately 80
    region-specific versions and
    local-language
    feeds of Cartoon Network, Boomerang, Turner Classic Movies, TNT
    and other networks in approximately 180 countries around the
    world. In the U.K. and Ireland, Turner distributes Cartoonito, a
    pre-school animation network, and in



    
    16



Table of Contents




    India and certain other South Asian territories, it distributes
    Pogo, an entertainment network for children. Turner India also
    distributes HBO in India and the Maldives. In 2008, Turner
    launched Tooncast, a kids animation network distributed in Latin
    America. In addition, Turner operates a number of pay television
    entertainment networks that vary in content, including movies,
    series, fashion and music, and owns the sales representation
    rights for nine third-party owned networks operating principally
    in Latin America.


 


    CNN International, an English language news network, is
    distributed in more than 190 countries and territories as of the
    end of 2008. CNN International is comprised of network feeds in
    five separate regions: Europe/Middle East/Africa, Asia Pacific,
    South Asia, Latin America and North America. HLN is distributed
    in Canada, the Caribbean, parts of Latin America and the Asia
    Pacific region; CNN en Espaňol is a separate Spanish
    language news network distributed primarily in Latin America.


 


    In a number of regions, Turner has launched
    local-language
    versions of its channels through joint ventures with local
    partners. These include CNN+, a Spanish language
    24-hour news
    network distributed in Spain; CNN Turk, a Turkish language
    24-hour news
    network available in Turkey and the Netherlands; CNN Chile, a
    Spanish language
    24-hour news
    network distributed in Chile; CNNj, an
    English-with-Japanese-translation news service in Japan; Cartoon
    Network Korea, a
    local-language
    24-hour
    channel for kids; and BOING, an Italian language
    24-hour kids
    animation network. CNN content is distributed through CNN-IBN, a
    co-branded,
    24-hour,
    English language general news and current affairs channel in
    India. Turner also has interests in a Mandarin language general
    entertainment service in China (CETV). In 2008, Turner, along
    with a local partner, launched Cartoon Network Turkey and TNT
    Turkey, both Turkish language channels distributed in Turkey.
    Also in 2008, Turner made an investment in and entered into a
    partnership with an Indian production company to develop and
    launch Real, a general entertainment Hindi language channel in
    India that is expected to launch in 2009. In addition, in 2009,
    Turner and Warner Bros. plan to launch an English language movie
    channel in India and Turner plans to launch a Spanish language
    version of truTV in Latin America.


 



    Websites


 


    In addition to its networks, Turner manages various websites
    that generate revenues from commercial advertising and, in some
    cases, consumer subscription fees. CNN has multiple websites,
    including CNN.com and several localized editions that
    operate in Turner’s international markets. CNN also
    operates CNNMoney.com in collaboration with Time
    Inc.’s Money, Fortune and FSB: Fortune
    Small Business magazines. Turner operates the NASCAR
    websites NASCAR.com and NASCAR.com en Espaňol
    under an agreement with NASCAR through 2014, and the
    PGA’s and PGA Tour’s websites, PGA.com and
    PGATour.com, respectively, under agreements with the PGA
    and the PGA Tour through 2011. In addition, Turner operates
    NBA.com under an agreement with the NBA through 2016.
    Turner also operates CartoonNetwork.com, a popular
    advertiser-supported site in the U.S., as well as 38
    international sites affiliated with the regional children’s
    services feeds.


 



    Home Box
    Office


 


    HBO, operated by Home Box Office, is the nation’s most
    widely distributed premium pay television service. Including
    HBO’s sister service, Cinemax, the Home Box Office Services
    had approximately 40.9 million subscriptions as of
    December 31, 2008. Both HBO and Cinemax are made available
    in HD on a number of multiplex channels. Home Box Office also
    offers HBO On Demand and Cinemax On Demand, subscription
    products that enable digital cable and telephone company
    customers who subscribe to the HBO and Cinemax services to view
    programs at a time of their choice.


 


    A major portion of the programming on HBO and Cinemax consists
    of recently released, uncut and uncensored theatrical motion
    pictures. Home Box Office’s practice has been to negotiate
    licensing agreements of varying duration with major motion
    picture studios and independent producers and distributors in
    order to ensure continued access to such films. These agreements
    typically grant pay television exhibition rights to recently
    released and certain older films owned by the particular studio,
    producer or distributor in exchange for negotiated fees, which
    may be a function of, among other things, the box office
    performances of the films.



    
    17



Table of Contents




    HBO is also defined by its award-winning original dramatic and
    comedy series, such as True Blood, The Sopranos,
    Entourage and Curb Your Enthusiasm, as well as
    movies, mini-series, boxing matches and sports news programs,
    comedy specials, family programming and documentaries. In 2008,
    among other awards, HBO won 26 Primetime Emmys — the
    most of any network — as well as 8 Sports Emmys.


 


    HBO also generates revenues from the exploitation of its
    original programming through multiple distribution outlets. HBO
    Home Entertainment markets a variety of HBO’s original
    programming on DVD. HBO licenses its original series, such as
    The Sopranos and Sex and the City, to basic cable
    channels and has also licensed Sex and the City in
    syndication. The Home Box Office-produced show Everybody
    Loves Raymond, which aired for nine seasons on broadcast
    television, is currently in syndication as well. Home Box Office
    content is also distributed by Apple Inc. through its online
    iTunes stores in the U.S. and the U.K. as well as on
    various mobile telephone platforms. In addition, through various
    pay television joint ventures, HBO-branded services are
    distributed in more than 50 countries in Latin America,
    Asia and Central Europe. In the fourth quarter of 2007 and the
    first quarter of 2008, HBO acquired additional interests in HBO
    Asia and HBO South Asia, and in the fourth quarter of 2008, HBO
    acquired an additional interest in the HBO Latin America Group.


 



    The
    CW


 


    Launched at the beginning of the Fall 2006 broadcast season, The
    CW broadcast network is a
    50-50 joint
    venture between Warner Bros. and CBS. The CW’s schedule
    includes, among other things, a six night-13 hour primetime
    lineup with programming such as Gossip Girl,
    90210, One Tree Hill, America’s Next Top
    Model, Everybody Hates Chris, Smallville and
    Supernatural, as well as a
    five-hour
    block of animated children’s programming on Saturday
    mornings. As of December 31, 2008, The CW was carried
    nationally by affiliated television stations covering 94% of
    U.S. television households. Among the affiliates of The CW
    are 13 stations owned by Tribune Broadcasting and nine CBS-owned
    stations.


 



    Competition


 


    The Networks compete with other television programming services
    for marketing and distribution by cable, satellite and other
    distribution systems. The Networks also compete for
    viewers’ attention and audience share with all other forms
    of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast
    networks, local over-the-air television stations, other pay and
    basic cable television services, motion pictures, home video,
    pay-per-view
    and
    video-on-demand
    services, online activities, including Internet streaming and
    downloading, and other forms of news, information and
    entertainment. In addition, the Networks face competition for
    programming from those same commercial television networks,
    independent stations, and pay and basic cable television
    services, some of which have exclusive contracts with motion
    picture studios and independent motion picture distributors. The
    Turner Networks and Turner’s websites compete for
    advertising with numerous direct competitors and other media.


 


    The Networks’ production divisions compete with other
    production companies for the services of producers, directors,
    writers, actors and others and for the acquisition of literary
    properties.


 



    PUBLISHING


 


    The Company’s publishing business is conducted primarily by
    Time Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, either
    directly or through its subsidiaries. Time Inc. is the largest
    magazine publisher in the U.S. based on advertising
    revenues, as measured by Publishers Information Bureau
    (“PIB”). In addition to publishing magazines, Time
    Inc. also operates a number of websites, as well as certain
    direct-marketing and direct-selling businesses.


 



    Publishing


 


    As of December 31, 2008, Time Inc. published 23 magazines
    in the U.S., including People, Sports Illustrated, Time,
    InStyle, Real Simple, Southern Living and Fortune,
    and over 90 magazines outside the U.S., primarily through
    IPC Media (“IPC”) in the U.K. and Grupo Editorial
    Expansión (“GEE”) in Mexico. In addition, Time
    Inc. operates almost 50 websites worldwide, such as
    CNNMoney.com, People.com and SI.com, that
    collectively had average



    
    18



Table of Contents




    monthly unique visitors of over 29 million worldwide in
    2008, according to Nielsen Media Research in the U.S. and
    comScore Media Metrix in the U.K.


 


    In recent years, Time Inc. has expanded its business primarily
    through developing and acquiring websites. In addition, Time
    Inc. has increased its licensed international editions and
    product extensions, including books and television programs.


 


    In the fourth quarter of 2008, Time Inc. reorganized its
    U.S. magazines and companion websites into three business
    units, each under a single management team: (1) Style and
    Entertainment, (2) News and (3) Lifestyle. This new
    structure is expected to allow Time Inc. to reduce its costs
    while bringing together under centralized management products
    that have a common appeal in the marketplace. In addition,
    magazine consumer marketing and production and distribution
    activities are generally centralized, and subscription
    fulfillment activities for Time Inc.’s U.S. magazines
    are primarily administered from a centralized facility in Tampa,
    Florida.


 



    Style
    and Entertainment


 


    People is a weekly magazine that reports on celebrities
    and other newsworthy individuals. People magazine
    generated approximately 18% of Time Inc.’s revenues in
    2008. The People franchise also includes: People en
    Espaňol, a monthly
    Spanish-language
    magazine aimed primarily at U.S. Hispanic readers;
    People Style Watch, a monthly magazine aimed at
    U.S. style-conscious younger readers; People.com, a
    leading website for celebrity news, photos and entertainment
    coverage; and PeopleEnEspaňol.com, a bilingual
    website aimed primarily at the U.S. Hispanic audience.


 


    InStyle, a monthly magazine, and InStyle.com, a
    related website, focus on celebrity, lifestyle, beauty and
    fashion. Time Inc. also publishes InStyle in the U.K.
    through IPC and in Mexico through GEE.


 


    Entertainment Weekly, a weekly magazine, and
    EW.com, a related entertainment news website, feature
    reviews and reports on movies, DVDs, video, television, music
    and books.


 


    Essence Communications Inc. (“ECI”) publishes
    Essence, a leading lifestyle magazine for
    African-American
    women in the U.S., and Essence.com, a related website,
    and also produces the annual Essence Music Festival. In 2008,
    ECI partnered with Warner Bros. to re-launch Essence.com
    and expand the brand’s content online and into
    television.


 



    News


 


    Sports Illustrated is a weekly magazine that covers
    sports. Sports Illustrated for Kids is a monthly sports
    magazine intended primarily for pre-teenagers. SI.com is
    a leading sports news website that provides up-to-the-minute
    scores and sports news 24/7, as well as statistics and analysis
    of domestic and international professional sports and college
    and high school sports. SI.com operates
    FanNation.com, a social-media, community site for sports
    fans and fantasy sports enthusiasts. Time Inc. also publishes
    the sports magazine Golf, a leading monthly golf
    magazine, and Golf.com, a related website, which feature
    user-friendly content designed to help readers play their best
    golf and maximize their golfing experience.


 


    Time is a weekly newsmagazine that summarizes the news
    and interprets the week’s events, both national and
    international. Time also has three weekly
    English-language
    editions that circulate outside the U.S. Time for Kids
    is a weekly current events newsmagazine for children,
    ages 5 to 13. TIME.com provides breaking news and
    analysis, giving its readers access to its
    24-hour
    global news gathering operation and its vast archive.


 


    Fortune is a bi-weekly magazine that reports on worldwide
    economic and business developments and compiles the annual
    Fortune 500 list of the largest U.S. corporations. Time
    Inc. also publishes the business and financial magazines
    Money, a monthly magazine that reports primarily on
    personal finance, and FSB: Fortune Small Business, a
    monthly magazine covering small business that is published under
    an agreement with the American Express Publishing Corporation.
    All of these magazines combine their resources on the
    CNNMoney.com website, a leading financial news and
    personal finance website that is operated in partnership with
    CNN.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    Lifestyle


 


    Real Simple, a monthly magazine, and
    RealSimple.com, a related website, focus on life, home,
    body and soul and provide practical solutions to make
    women’s lives easier. After airing a television series for
    two seasons on PBS, Real Simple began airing a weekly
    television series on TLC in October 2008.


 


    Southern Progress Corporation (“SPC”) publishes four
    monthly magazines, the regional lifestyle magazine Southern
    Living, the epicurean magazine Cooking Light and the
    shelter magazines Coastal Living and Southern Accents.
    In addition to MyRecipes.com, a recipes website
    launched in 2007, in 2008 SPC launched MyHomeIdeas.com,
    which features shelter content from SPC and other Time Inc.
    brands.


 


    Sunset, a monthly magazine, and Sunset.com, a
    related website, focus on western lifestyle in the U.S.


 


    Health, a monthly magazine for women, focuses on
    information about health and wellness. Its related website,
    Health.com, was relaunched in 2008.


 


    All You is a monthly lifestyle and service magazine for
    value conscious women.


 


    This Old House publishes This Old House magazine and
    ThisOldHouse.com, a related website, and produces two
    television series, This Old House and Ask This Old
    House.


 



    Other
    Publishing Operations


 


    Time Inc. also has responsibility under a management contract
    for the American Express Publishing Corporation’s
    publishing operations, including its lifestyle magazines
    Travel & Leisure, Food & Wine and
    Departures and their related websites.


 



    International


 


    IPC, a leading U.K. consumer magazine publisher, publishes
    approximately 75 magazines as well as numerous special issues.
    IPC’s magazines include What’s On TV and TV
    Times in the television listings sector, Chat, Woman
    and Woman’s Own in the women’s lifestyle
    sector, Now in the celebrity sector, Woman &
    Home and Homes & Gardens in the home and
    garden sector, Horse & Hound and Country
    Life in the leisure sector, NME in the music sector
    and Nuts and Loaded in the men’s lifestyle
    sector. In addition, IPC publishes four magazines through three
    unconsolidated joint ventures with Groupe Marie Claire. In 2008,
    IPC launched ShopStyle, a shopping portal on
    instyle.co.uk, and video channels on nme.com,
    nuts.co.uk, trustedreviews.com and golfmonthly.co.uk
    and also acquired Mousebreaker.com, a leading U.K.
    free-to-play game site.


 


    GEE, a leading Mexican consumer magazine publisher, publishes 13
    magazines in Mexico including Expansión, a business
    magazine; Quién, a celebrity and personality
    magazine; Obras, an architecture, construction and
    engineering magazine; Life and Style, a men’s
    lifestyle magazine; InStyle Mexico, a fashion and
    lifestyle magazine for women; and Balance, a fitness,
    health and nutrition magazine for women. In addition, GEE
    publishes two magazines through an unconsolidated joint venture
    with Hachette Filipacchi Presse S.A., and in 2008 GEE launched
    Travel & Leisure Mexico pursuant to a license
    agreement with the American Express Publishing Corporation. GEE
    also operates CNNExpansíon.com, a leading business
    website in Mexico, and MetrosCúbicos.com, a leading
    website for classified real estate listings in Mexico. In 2008,
    GEE acquired a majority interest in MedioTiempo.com, a
    leading sports website in Mexico.


 


    Time Inc. licenses over 50 editions of its magazines for
    publication outside the U.S. to publishers in over 20
    countries.


 



    Advertising


 


    Time Inc. derives more than half of its revenues from the sale
    of advertising, primarily from its magazines and with a small
    but increasing amount of advertising revenues from its websites.
    Advertising carried in Time Inc.’s magazines and websites
    is predominantly consumer advertising, including food,
    toiletries and cosmetics, drugs, automobiles, financial services
    and insurance, apparel, computers and telecommunications, retail
    and department stores, travel and media and movies.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    In 2008, Time Inc.’s U.S. magazines accounted for
    18.5% (compared to 18.6% in 2007) of the total
    U.S. advertising revenues in consumer magazines, excluding
    newspaper supplements, as measured by PIB. People,
    Sports Illustrated and Time were ranked 1, 3 and
    5, respectively, in terms of PIB-measured advertising revenues
    in 2008, and Time Inc. had six of the top 25 leading magazines
    based on the same measure.


 



    Circulation


 


    Through the sale of magazines to consumers, circulation
    generates significant revenues for Time Inc. In addition,
    circulation is an important component in determining Time
    Inc.’s print advertising revenues because advertising page
    rates are based on circulation and audience. Most of Time
    Inc.’s U.S. magazines are sold primarily by
    subscription and delivered to subscribers through the mail.
    Subscriptions are sold primarily through direct mail and online
    solicitation, subscription sales agents, marketing agreements
    with other companies and insert cards in Time Inc. magazines and
    other publications. Most of Time Inc.’s international
    magazines are sold primarily at newsstands.


 


    Time Inc.’s Synapse Group, Inc. (“Synapse”) is a
    leading seller of domestic magazine subscriptions to Time Inc.
    magazines and magazines of other U.S. publishers. Synapse
    sells magazine subscriptions principally through marketing
    relationships with credit card issuers, consumer catalog
    companies, commercial airlines with frequent flier programs,
    retailers and Internet businesses.


 


    In August 2008, Time Inc. purchased the
    U.S.-based
    school and youth group fundraising company QSP, Inc. and its
    Canadian affiliate, Quality Service Programs Inc. (collectively,
    “QSP”). QSP offers fundraising programs that help
    schools and youth groups raise money through the sale of
    magazine subscriptions to Time Inc. magazines and magazines of
    other publishers, among other products.


 


    In September 2008, Time Inc. launched Maghound, an online-based
    magazine membership service that allows members to select their
    favorite magazines from a broad range of titles from multiple
    publishers for one set monthly fee, with the ability to switch
    titles at any time.


 


    Newsstand sales of magazines, which are reported as a component
    of Subscription revenues, are sold through traditional
    newsstands as well as other retail outlets such as Wal-Mart,
    supermarkets and convenience and drug stores, and may or may not
    result in repeat purchases. Time/Warner Retail Sales &
    Marketing Inc. distributes and markets copies of Time Inc.
    magazines and books and certain other publishers’ magazines
    and books through
    third-party
    wholesalers primarily in the U.S. and Canada. Wholesalers,
    in turn, sell Time Inc. magazines to retailers. A small number
    of wholesalers are responsible for a substantial portion of Time
    Inc.’s newstand sales of magazines. IPC’s Marketforce
    (UK) Ltd distributes and markets copies of all IPC magazines,
    some international editions of Time Inc.’s
    U.S. magazines and certain other publishers’ magazines
    outside of the U.S. through third-party wholesalers to
    retail outlets.


 



    Paper
    and Printing


 


    Paper constitutes a significant component of physical costs in
    the production of magazines. During 2008, Time Inc. purchased
    over 375,000 tons of paper principally from three independent
    manufacturers.


 


    Printing and binding for Time Inc. magazines are performed
    primarily by major domestic and international independent
    printing concerns in multiple locations in the U.S. and in
    other countries. Magazine printing contracts are typically
    fixed-term at fixed prices with, in some cases, adjustments
    based on inflation.


 



    Direct-Marketing,
    Direct-Selling and Books


 


    Through subsidiaries, Time Inc. conducts direct-marketing and
    direct-selling businesses as well as certain niche book
    publishing. In addition to selling magazine subscriptions,
    Synapse is a direct marketer of consumer products, including
    jewelry and other merchandise.


 


    In addition to magazine fundraising programs, QSP offers
    fundraising programs that help schools and youth groups to raise
    money through the sale of chocolate, cookie dough and other
    products.



    
    21



Table of Contents




    Southern Living At Home, the direct selling division of SPC,
    specializes in home décor products that are sold in the
    U.S. through approximately 25,000 independent
    consultants at parties hosted in people’s homes. In January
    2009, Time Inc. announced its intention to put Southern Living
    At Home up for sale.


 


    Time Inc.’s book publishing business consists of Time Inc.
    Home Entertainment, Oxmoor House and Sunset Books, which publish
    how-to, lifestyle and special commemorative books, among other
    topics.


 



    Postal
    Rates


 


    Postal costs represent a significant operating expense for the
    Company’s magazine publishing and direct-marketing
    activities. In 2008, Time Inc. spent over $250 million for
    services provided by the U.S. Postal Service. The
    U.S. Postal Service implemented an approximately 3% postal
    rate increase effective May 12, 2008 for all classes of
    mail and will implement an additional increase in May 2009 which
    is expected to increase Time Inc.’s postal rate by
    approximately 5%. These increased costs are not directly passed
    on to magazine subscribers. Time Inc. strives to minimize postal
    expense through the use of certain cost-saving activities with
    respect to address quality, mail preparation and delivery of
    products to postal facilities.


 



    Competition


 


    Time Inc. faces significant competition from several direct
    competitors and other media, including the Internet. Time
    Inc.’s magazine and website operations compete with
    numerous other magazine and website publishers and other media
    for circulation and audience and for advertising directed at the
    general public and at more focused demographic groups. The
    publishing business presents few barriers to entry and many new
    magazines and websites are launched annually. In recent years,
    competitors have launched
    and/or
    repositioned many magazines and websites, primarily in the
    celebrity, women’s service and business sectors, that
    compete directly with People, InStyle, Real Simple, Fortune
    and other Time Inc. magazines, as well as Time Inc.’s
    websites. This has resulted in increased competition, especially
    at newsstands and mass retailers and particularly for celebrity
    and entertainment magazines. It is possible that additional
    competitors may enter the website publishing business.


 


    Competition for magazine and website advertising revenues is
    primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and size of the
    audience (including the circulation and readership of magazines
    and the number of unique visitors to and page views on
    websites), audience response to advertisers’ products and
    services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive
    factors in publishing include product positioning, editorial
    quality, price and customer service, which impact audience,
    circulation revenue and advertising revenue. In addition,
    competition for magazine advertising revenue has intensified in
    recent years as advertising dollars have increasingly shifted
    from traditional to online media, and competition for
    advertising has intensified even further due to the difficult
    current economic conditions.


 


    Time Inc.’s direct-marketing operations compete with other
    direct marketers through all media, including the Internet, for
    the consumer’s attention.


 



    INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY


 


    Time Warner is one of the world’s leading creators, owners
    and distributors of intellectual property. The Company’s
    vast intellectual property assets include copyrights in motion
    pictures, television programs, magazines, software and books;
    trademarks in names, logos and characters; patents or patent
    applications for inventions related to its products and
    services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of
    various kinds. These intellectual property assets, both in the
    U.S. and in other countries around the world, are among the
    Company’s most valuable assets. The Company derives value
    from these assets through a range of business models, including
    the theatrical release of films, the licensing of its films and
    television programming to multiple domestic and international
    television and cable networks and pay television services, and
    the sale of products such as DVDs and magazines. It also derives
    revenues related to its intellectual property through
    advertising in its magazines, networks, cable systems and online
    services and from various types of licensing activities,
    including licensing of its trademarks and characters. To protect
    these assets, the Company relies on a combination of copyright,
    trademark, unfair competition, patent and



    
    22



Table of Contents




    trade secret laws and contract provisions. The duration of the
    protection afforded to the Company’s intellectual property
    depends on the type of property in question and the laws and
    regulations of the relevant jurisdiction; in the case of
    licenses, it also depends on contractual
    and/or
    statutory provisions.


 


    The Company vigorously pursues all appropriate avenues of
    protection for its intellectual property. However, there can be
    no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be
    successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the
    Company’s intellectual property is often difficult and the
    steps taken may not in every case prevent misappropriation.
    Piracy, particularly in the digital environment, continues to
    present a threat to revenues from products and services based on
    intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit that threat
    through a combination of approaches, including offering
    legitimate market alternatives, applying technical protection
    measures, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting
    appropriate legislative initiatives, and enhancing public
    awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property. The
    Company works with various cross-industry groups and trade
    associations, as well as with strategic partners to develop and
    implement technological solutions to control digital piracy.


 


    Third parties may bring intellectual property infringement
    claims or challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s
    intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges
    could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property
    rights. In addition, domestic and international laws, statutes
    and regulations are constantly changing, and the Company’s
    assets may be either adversely or beneficially affected by such
    changes. Moreover, intellectual property protections may be
    insufficient or insufficiently enforced in certain foreign
    territories. The Company therefore generally engages in efforts
    to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around
    the world, including efforts to ensure effective and
    appropriately tailored remedies for infringement.


 



    REGULATORY
    MATTERS


 


    The Company’s cable system, cable network, original
    programming and Internet businesses are subject, in part, to
    regulation by the FCC, and the cable system business is also
    subject to regulation by most local and some state governments
    where the Company has cable systems. In addition, the
    Company’s cable business is subject to compliance with the
    terms of the Memorandum Opinion and Order issued by the FCC in
    July 2006 in connection with the regulatory clearance of the
    transactions related to TWC’s 2006 acquisition of cable
    systems from Adelphia Communications Corporation
    (“Adelphia”) and Comcast (the “Adelphia/Comcast
    Transactions Order”). The Company’s magazine and other
    direct marketing activities are also subject to regulation.


 


    The following is a summary of the terms of these orders as well
    as current significant federal, state and local laws and
    regulations affecting the growth and operation of these
    businesses. In addition, various legislative and regulatory
    proposals under consideration from time to time by the United
    States Congress (“Congress”) and various federal
    agencies have in the past materially affected, and may in the
    future materially affect, the Company.


 



    Cable
    System Regulation


 


    The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the
    “Communications Act”) and the regulations and policies
    of the FCC affect significant aspects of TWC’s cable system
    operations, including video subscriber rates; carriage of
    broadcast television signals and cable programming, as well as
    the way TWC sells its program packages to subscribers; the use
    of cable systems by franchising authorities and other third
    parties; cable system ownership; offering of voice and
    high-speed data services; and the use of utility poles and
    conduits.


 



    Video
    Services


 


    Subscriber Rates. The Communications Act and the
    FCC’s rules regulate rates for basic cable service and
    equipment in communities that are not subject to “effective
    competition,” as defined by federal law. Where there has
    been no finding by the FCC of effective competition, federal law
    authorizes franchising authorities to regulate the monthly rates
    charged by the operator for the minimum level of video
    programming service, referred to as basic service tier or BST,
    which generally includes broadcast television signals,
    satellite-delivered broadcast networks and superstations, local
    origination channels, a few specialty networks and public
    access, educational and government channels. This regulation
    also applies to the installation, sale and lease of equipment
    used by



    
    23



Table of Contents




    subscribers to receive basic service, such as set-top boxes and
    remote control units. In many localities, TWC is no longer
    subject to rate regulation, either because the local franchising
    authority has not become certified by the FCC to regulate these
    rates or because the FCC has found that there is effective
    competition.


 


    Carriage of Broadcast Television Stations and Other
    Programming Regulation. The Communications Act and the
    FCC’s regulations contain broadcast signal carriage
    requirements that allow local commercial television broadcast
    stations to elect once every three years to require a cable
    system to carry their stations, subject to some exceptions,
    commonly called “must carry,” or to negotiate with
    cable systems the terms by which the cable systems may carry
    their stations, commonly called “retransmission
    consent.” Broadcasters recently made their elections for
    the current carriage cycle, which began on January 1, 2009.


 


    The Communications Act and the FCC’s regulations require a
    cable operator to devote up to one-third of its activated
    channel capacity for the mandatory carriage of local commercial
    television stations that elect must carry and certain low-power
    stations. The Communications Act and the FCC’s regulations
    give local non-commercial television stations mandatory carriage
    rights, but non-commercial stations do not have the option to
    negotiate retransmission consent for the carriage of their
    signals by cable systems. Additionally, cable systems must
    obtain retransmission consent for all “distant”
    commercial television stations (i.e., those television stations
    outside the designated market area to which a community is
    assigned) except for commercial satellite-delivered independent
    “superstations” and some low-power television stations.


 


    In 2005, the FCC reaffirmed its earlier decision rejecting
    multi-casting (i.e., carriage of more than one program stream
    per broadcaster) requirements with respect to carriage of
    broadcast signals pursuant to must-carry rules. Certain parties
    filed petitions for reconsideration. To date, no action has been
    taken on these reconsideration petitions, and the Company is
    unable to predict what requirements, if any, the FCC might adopt.


 


    In September 2007, the FCC adopted rules that will require cable
    operators that offer at least some analog service (i.e.,
    operators that are not operating “all-digital”
    systems) to provide subscribers down-converted analog versions
    of must-carry broadcast stations’ digital signals. In
    addition, must-carry stations broadcasting in HD format must be
    carried in HD on cable systems with greater than 552 MHz
    capacity; standard-definition signals may be carried only in
    analog format. Those rules will become effective after the
    broadcast television transition from analog to digital service
    for full power television stations, and are currently scheduled
    to terminate after three years, subject to FCC review. Congress
    recently extended the digital transition deadline from
    February 17, 2009 to June 12, 2009.


 


    The Communications Act also permits franchising authorities to
    negotiate with cable operators for channels for public,
    educational and governmental access programming. It also
    requires a cable system with 36 or more activated channels to
    designate a significant portion of its channel capacity for
    commercial leased access by third parties, which limits the
    amount of capacity TWC has available for other programming. The
    FCC regulates various aspects of such third-party commercial use
    of channel capacity on TWC’s cable systems, including the
    rates and some terms and conditions of the commercial use. These
    rules are the subject of an ongoing FCC proceeding, and recent
    revisions to such rules are stayed pursuant to an appeal in the
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. The FCC also
    has an open proceeding to examine its substantive and procedural
    rules for program carriage. The Company is unable to predict
    whether any such proceedings will lead to any material changes
    in existing regulations.


 


    In November 2007, as part of the FCC’s collection of
    information for its Video Competition Report, the FCC adopted a
    requirement that cable operators submit to the agency
    information concerning the number of homes that their systems
    pass and information concerning their subscribers in order to
    determine whether the FCC’s so-called “70/70”
    test has been met. If the FCC were to determine that cable
    systems with 36 or more activated channels are available to 70%
    of households within the United States and that 70% of those
    households subscribe to such systems, it may have the authority
    to promulgate certain additional regulations covering cable
    operators.


 


    Ownership Limitations. There are various rules
    prohibiting joint ownership of cable systems and other kinds of
    communications facilities, including local telephone companies
    and multichannel multipoint distribution service facilities. The
    Communications Act also requires the FCC to adopt
    “reasonable limits” on the number of subscribers a
    cable operator may reach through systems in which it holds an
    ownership interest. In December 2007, the FCC adopted an order
    establishing a 30% limit on the percentage of nationwide
    multichannel video subscribers that any single cable provider
    can serve. This rule is now under appellate review. The
    Communications Act also requires the



    
    24



Table of Contents




    FCC to adopt “reasonable limits” on the number of
    channels that cable operators may fill with programming services
    in which they hold an ownership interest. The matter remains
    pending before the FCC. It is uncertain when the FCC will rule
    on this issue or how any regulations it adopts might affect the
    Company.


 


    Pole Attachment Regulation. The Communications Act
    requires that utilities provide cable systems and
    telecommunications carriers with non-discriminatory access to
    any pole, conduit or right-of-way controlled by investor-owned
    utilities. The Communications Act also permits the FCC to
    regulate the rates, terms and conditions imposed by these
    utilities for cable systems’ use of utility poles and
    conduit space. States are permitted to preempt FCC jurisdiction
    over pole attachments through certifying that they regulate the
    terms of attachments themselves. Many states in which TWC
    operates have done so. Most of these certifying states have
    generally followed the FCC’s pole attachment rate standards
    and guidelines. The FCC or a certifying state could increase
    pole attachment rates paid by cable operators. In addition, the
    FCC has adopted a higher pole attachment rate applicable to pole
    attachments made by companies providing telecommunications
    services. The applicability of, and method for calculating, pole
    attachment rates for cable operators that provide digital voice
    services remains unclear. In November 2007, the FCC issued a
    Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that proposes to establish a new
    unified pole attachment rate that would apply to attachments
    made by a cable operator that are used to provide high-speed
    Internet services and, potentially, digital voice services as
    well. The proposed rate would be higher than the current rate
    paid by cable service providers. If adopted, this proposal could
    materially increase TWC’s current payments for pole
    attachments.


 


    Set-Top Box Regulation. Certain regulatory
    requirements are also applicable to set-top boxes and other
    equipment that can be used to receive digital video services.
    Currently, many cable subscribers rent from their cable operator
    a set-top box that performs both signal-reception functions and
    conditional-access security functions. The lease rates cable
    operators charge for this equipment are subject to rate
    regulation to the same extent as basic cable service. In 1996,
    Congress enacted a statute requiring the FCC to pass rules
    fostering the availability of set-top boxes. An implementing
    regulation, which became effective on July 1, 2007,
    requires cable operators to cease placing into service new
    set-top boxes that have integrated security. Direct broadcast
    operators are not subject to this requirement.


 


    Switched Digital Video. The deployment of SDV allows
    TWC to save bandwidth by transmitting particular programming
    services only to groups of homes or nodes where subscribers are
    viewing the programming at a particular time, rather than
    broadcasting it to all subscriber homes. The Enforcement Bureau
    of the FCC has issued preliminary decisions and forfeiture
    orders finding that TWC’s notice of its deployment of SDV
    technology violates FCC rules. These staff-level decisions do
    not constitute final agency action on the substantive legal
    issues, and are the subject of a pending appeal. However, if
    these decisions are upheld, they could impose significant costs
    upon TWC
    and/or
    impede its ability to make additional capacity available for new
    services through the use of SDV. TWC intends to seek further
    review by the FCC and, if necessary, the courts.


 


    Multiple Dwelling Units and Inside Wiring. In
    November 2007, the FCC adopted an order declaring null and void
    all exclusive access arrangements between cable operators and
    multiple dwelling units and other centrally-managed real estate
    developments (“MDUs”). In connection with the order,
    the FCC also issued a Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
    regarding whether to expand the ban on exclusivity to other
    types of multi-channel video programming distributors
    (“MVPDs”) in addition to cable operators, including
    DBS providers, and whether to expand the scope of the rules to
    prohibit exclusive marketing and bulk billing agreements. The
    order has been appealed by the National Cable and
    Telecommunications Association (the “NCTA”), the cable
    industry’s principal trade organization. The FCC also has
    adopted rules facilitating competitors’ access to the cable
    wiring inside MDUs. This order, which also has been appealed by
    the NCTA, could have an adverse impact on TWC’s business
    because it would allow competitors to use wiring inside MDUs
    that the cable industry has already deployed.


 


    Copyright Regulation. TWC’s cable systems
    provide subscribers with, among other things, local and distant
    television broadcast stations. TWC generally does not obtain a
    license to use the copyrighted performances contained in these
    stations’ programming directly from program owners.
    Instead, in exchange for filing reports with the
    U.S. Copyright Office and contributing a percentage of
    revenue to a federal copyright royalty pool, cable operators
    obtain rights to retransmit copyrighted material contained in
    broadcast signals pursuant to a compulsory license. The
    elimination or substantial modification of this compulsory
    copyright license has been the subject of ongoing legislative
    and administrative review, and, if eliminated or modified, could
    adversely affect TWC’s ability



    
    25



Table of Contents




    to obtain suitable programming and could substantially increase
    TWC’s programming costs. Additionally, the
    U.S. Copyright Office has released a ruling on issues
    relating to the calculation of compulsory license fees that
    could increase the amount cable operators are required to pay
    into the copyright royalty pool. Further, the
    U.S. Copyright Office has not yet made any determinations
    as to how the compulsory license will apply to digital broadcast
    signals and services.


 


    Program Access and Adelphia/Comcast Transactions
    Order. In the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order, the
    FCC imposed conditions on TWC, which will expire in July 2012,
    related to regional sports networks (“RSNs”), as
    defined in the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order, and the
    resolution of disputes pursuant to the FCC’s leased access
    regulations. In particular, the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions
    Order provides that (i) neither TWC nor its affiliates may
    offer an affiliated RSN on an exclusive basis to any MVPD;
    (ii) TWC may not unduly or improperly influence the
    decision of any affiliated RSN to sell programming to an
    unaffiliated MVPD or the prices, terms and conditions of sale of
    programming by an affiliated RSN to an unaffiliated MVPD;
    (iii) if an MVPD and an affiliated RSN cannot reach an
    agreement on the terms and conditions of carriage, the MVPD may
    elect commercial arbitration to resolve the dispute;
    (iv) if an unaffiliated RSN is denied carriage by TWC, it
    may elect commercial arbitration to resolve the dispute in
    accordance with the FCC’s program carriage rules; and
    (v) with respect to leased access, if an unaffiliated
    programmer is unable to reach an agreement with TWC, that
    programmer may elect commercial arbitration to resolve the
    dispute, with the arbitrator being required to resolve the
    dispute using the FCC’s existing rate formula relating to
    pricing terms. The FCC has suspended this “baseball
    style” arbitration procedure as it relates to TWC’s
    carriage of unaffiliated RSNs, although it allowed the
    arbitration of a claim brought by the Mid-Atlantic Sports
    Network because the claim was brought prior to the suspension.
    In that case, in October 2008, the FCC’s Media Bureau
    upheld the arbitrator’s ruling in favor of the Mid-Atlantic
    Sports Network, and TWC has petitioned for review by the full
    FCC. In addition, Herring Broadcasting, Inc., which does
    business as WealthTV, filed a program carriage complaint against
    TWC and other cable operators alleging discrimination against
    WealthTV’s programming in favor of similarly situated video
    programming vendors in violation of the FCC’s rules. These
    proceedings remain pending.


 


    Other Federal Regulatory Requirements. The
    Communications Act also includes provisions regulating customer
    service, subscriber privacy, marketing practices, equal
    employment opportunity, technical standards and equipment
    compatibility, antenna structure notification, marking,
    lighting, emergency alert system requirements and the collection
    from cable operators of annual regulatory fees, which are
    calculated based on the number of subscribers served and the
    types of FCC licenses held. The FCC also actively regulates
    other aspects of TWC’s video services, including the
    mandatory blackout of syndicated, network and sports
    programming; customer service standards; political advertising;
    indecent or obscene programming; Emergency Alert System
    requirements for analog and digital services; closed captioning
    requirements for the hearing impaired; commercial restrictions
    on children’s programming; equal employment opportunity;
    recordkeeping and public file access requirements; and technical
    rules relating to operation of the cable network.


 


    Franchising. Cable operators generally operate their
    systems under non-exclusive franchises. Franchises are awarded,
    and cable operators are regulated, by state franchising
    authorities, local franchising authorities, or both. Franchise
    agreements typically require payment of franchise fees and
    contain regulatory provisions addressing, among other things,
    upgrades, service quality, cable service to schools and other
    public institutions, insurance and indemnity bonds. The terms
    and conditions of cable franchises vary from jurisdiction to
    jurisdiction. The Communications Act provides protections
    against many unreasonable terms. In particular, the
    Communications Act imposes a ceiling on franchise fees of five
    percent of revenues derived from cable service. TWC generally
    passes the franchise fee on to its subscribers, listing it as a
    separate item on the bill.


 


    Franchise agreements usually have a term of ten to 15 years
    from the date of grant, although some renewals may be for
    shorter terms. Franchises usually are terminable only if the
    cable operator fails to comply with material provisions. TWC has
    not had a franchise terminated due to breach. After a franchise
    agreement expires, a local franchising authority may seek to
    impose new and more onerous requirements, including requirements
    to upgrade facilities, to increase channel capacity and to
    provide various new services. Federal law, however, provides
    significant substantive and procedural protections for cable
    operators seeking renewal of their franchises. In addition,
    although TWC occasionally reaches the expiration date of a
    franchise agreement without having a written renewal or
    extension, it generally has the right to continue to operate,
    either by agreement with the local franchising



    
    26



Table of Contents




    authority or by law, while continuing to negotiate a renewal. In
    the past, substantially all of the material franchises relating
    to TWC’s systems have been renewed by the relevant local
    franchising authority, though sometimes only after significant
    time and effort.


 


    In June 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth
    Circuit upheld regulations adopted by the FCC in December 2006
    intended to limit the ability of local franchising authorities
    to delay or refuse the grant of competitive franchises (by, for
    example, imposing deadlines on franchise negotiations). The FCC
    has applied most of these rules to incumbent cable operators
    which, although immediately effective, in some cases may not
    alter existing franchises prior to renewal.


 


    At the state level, several states, including California,
    Kansas, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, South Carolina, Texas
    and Wisconsin have enacted statutes intended to streamline entry
    by additional video competitors, some of which provide more
    favorable treatment to new entrants than to existing providers.
    Similar bills are pending or may be enacted in additional
    states. Despite TWC’s efforts and the protections of
    federal law, it is possible that some of TWC’s franchises
    may not be renewed, and TWC may be required to make significant
    additional investments in its cable systems in response to
    requirements imposed in the course of the franchise renewal
    process.


 



    High-Speed
    Data Internet Access Services


 


    TWC provides high-speed data services over its existing cable
    facilities. In 2002, the FCC released an order in which it
    determined that cable-provided high-speed Internet access
    service is an interstate “information service” rather
    than a “cable service” or a “telecommunications
    service,” as those terms are defined in the Communications
    Act. That determination was sustained by the U.S. Supreme
    Court. The “information service” classification means
    that the service is not subject to regulation as a cable service
    or as a telecommunications service under federal, state, or
    local law. Nonetheless, TWC’s high-speed data service is
    subject to a number of regulatory requirements, including
    compliance with the Communications Assistance for Law
    Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) requirement that high-speed
    data service providers implement certain network capabilities to
    assist law enforcement agencies in conducting surveillance of
    criminal suspects.


 


    “Net Neutrality” Legislative and Regulatory
    Proposals. In previous Congressional sessions,
    legislation has been introduced proposing “net
    neutrality” requirements. These legislative proposals would
    have limited to a greater or lesser extent the ability of
    broadband providers to adopt pricing models and network
    management policies.


 


    In September 2005, the FCC issued its Net Neutrality Policy
    Statement, which at the time the agency characterized as a
    non-binding policy statement. The principles contained in the
    Net Neutrality Policy Statement set forth the FCC’s view
    that consumers are entitled to access and use lawful Internet
    content and applications of their choice, to connect to lawful
    devices of their choosing that do not harm the broadband
    provider’s network and to competition among network,
    application, service and content providers. The Net Neutrality
    Policy Statement notes that these principles are subject to
    “reasonable network management.” Subsequently, the FCC
    made these principles binding as to certain telecommunications
    companies for specified periods of time pursuant to
    “voluntary commitments” in orders adopted in
    connection with mergers undertaken by those companies.


 


    Several parties have sought to persuade the FCC to adopt net
    neutrality-type regulations in a number of proceedings before
    the agency; however, none of these proceedings has resulted in
    the adoption of formal regulations. Despite this, a formal
    complaint was filed against Comcast alleging that its use of
    “reset packets” to manage peer-to-peer file-sharing
    traffic constituted an unreasonable network management practice.
    In August 2008, the FCC released a decision finding in favor of
    the complainant relying in part on the FCC’s Net Neutrality
    Policy Statement. That decision is under appeal. “Net
    neutrality” legislation or regulation could limit
    TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business
    profitably and manage its broadband facilities efficiently to
    respond to growing bandwidth usage by TWC’s high-speed data
    customers.


 



    Voice
    Services


 


    TWC currently offers residential Digital Phone and Business
    Class Phone voice services using interconnected Voice over
    Internet Protocol (“VoIP”) technology. Traditional
    providers of circuit-switched telephone services



    
    27



Table of Contents




    generally are subject to significant regulation. It is unclear
    whether and to what extent regulators will subject
    interconnected VoIP services such as TWC’s residential
    Digital Phone and Business Class Phone services to the same
    regulations that apply to these traditional services provided by
    incumbent telephone companies. In February 2004, the FCC opened
    a broad-based rulemaking proceeding to consider these and other
    issues. That rulemaking remains pending. The FCC has, however,
    extended a number of traditional telephone carrier regulations
    to interconnected VoIP providers, including requiring
    interconnected VoIP providers to provide E911 capabilities as a
    standard feature to their subscribers; to comply with the
    requirements of CALEA to assist law enforcement investigations
    in providing, after a lawful request, call content and call
    identification information; to contribute to the federal
    universal service fund; to pay regulatory fees; to comply with
    subscriber privacy rules; to provide access to their services to
    persons with disabilities; and to comply with local number
    portability (“LNP”) rules when subscribers change
    telephone providers. With respect to LNP requirements, the FCC
    clarified that local exchange carriers and commercial mobile
    radio service providers have an obligation to port numbers to
    interconnected VoIP providers.


 


    Certain other issues related to interconnected VoIP services
    also remain unclear. In particular, in November 2004, the FCC
    determined that regardless of their regulatory classification,
    certain interconnected VoIP services qualify as interstate
    services with respect to economic regulation. The FCC preempted
    state regulations that address such issues as entry
    certification, tariffing and E911 requirements, as applied to
    certain interconnected VoIP services. On March 21, 2007,
    the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed
    the FCC’s November 2004 order with respect to these VoIP
    services, particularly those having portable or nomadic
    capability. The jurisdictional classification of other types of
    interconnected VoIP services, particularly “fixed”
    services such as that provided by TWC, remains uncertain. The
    Wisconsin and Missouri public utility commissions, for instance,
    have ruled that TWC’s Digital Phone service is subject to
    traditional, circuit-switched telephone regulation, while other
    state commissions have opened investigations into how such VoIP
    services should be treated in their respective states.


 


    The FCC and various states are also considering how
    interconnected VoIP services should interconnect with incumbent
    phone company networks. Because the FCC has yet to classify
    interconnected VoIP service, the precise scope of
    interconnection rules as applied to interconnected VoIP service
    is not clear. As a result, some small incumbent telephone
    companies may resist interconnecting directly with TWC. Finally,
    the FCC is considering comprehensive intercarrier compensation
    reform including the appropriate compensation regime applicable
    to interconnected VoIP traffic over the public switched
    telephone network. It is unclear whether and when the FCC or
    Congress will adopt further rules relating to VoIP
    interconnection and how such rules would affect TWC’s
    interconnected VoIP service.


 



    Network
    Regulation


 


    Under the Communications Act and its implementing regulations,
    vertically integrated cable programmers like the Turner Networks
    and the Home Box Office Services are generally prohibited from
    offering different prices, terms, or conditions to competing
    unaffiliated MVPDs unless the differential is justified by
    certain permissible factors set forth in the FCC’s program
    access regulations. The rules also place restrictions on the
    ability of vertically integrated programmers to enter into
    exclusive distribution arrangements with cable operators. Upon
    completion of the Separation, the Turner Networks and the Home
    Box Office Services will no longer be vertically integrated
    cable programmers and, as a result, these regulatory obligations
    will cease to apply.


 


    In October 2007, the FCC initiated a rulemaking to examine
    questions regarding the use of bundling practices in carriage
    agreements for both broadcast and satellite cable programming.
    It is unclear what, if any, action the FCC will take in this
    matter.


 


    In January 2007, online video provider VDC Corporation
    (“VDC”) filed a program access complaint with the FCC
    against Turner, also naming TWC and Time Warner in the
    proceeding. VDC seeks both a licensing agreement for the
    carriage of various Turner networks, as well as damages not to
    exceed $25 million. This complaint raises issues of first
    impression at the FCC, including whether online providers such
    as VDC are entitled to take advantage of the program access
    rules. Turner believes VDC’s arguments are without merit,
    and has requested dismissal of the complaint. This matter
    remains pending before the FCC.



    
    28



Table of Contents




    In June 2008, the FCC initiated an inquiry and rulemaking to
    examine the use of product placement and integration in
    television programming. In this proceeding, the FCC sought
    comment on whether to enhance its existing sponsorship
    identification rules applicable to broadcast programming, and
    whether to extend such rules to cable programming. The
    proceeding also sought comment on whether to expressly prohibit
    the use of paid product placement or integration in
    children’s television programming. It is unclear what, if
    any, action the FCC will take in this matter.


 


    Certain other federal laws also contain provisions relating to
    violent and sexually explicit programming, including provisions
    relating to the voluntary promulgation of ratings by the
    industry and requiring manufacturers to build television sets
    with the capability of blocking certain coded programming (the
    so-called “V-chip”). Cable networks with programming
    produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children 12
    and younger must also comply with commercial time limits during
    such programming.


 



    Marketing
    Regulation


 


    Time Inc.’s magazine subscription and direct marketing
    activities, as well as marketing and billing activities by AOL
    and other divisions of the Company, are subject to regulation by
    the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and each of the
    states under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting
    unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas of
    marketing activity are also subject to specific federal statutes
    and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the
    Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy) and the
    FTC Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule. Other statutes and
    rules also regulate conduct in areas such as privacy, data
    security, product safety and telemarketing. Time Inc. regularly
    receives and resolves routine inquiries from state Attorneys
    General and is subject to agreements with state Attorneys
    General addressing some of Time Inc.’s marketing
    activities. Also, Time Inc. has pending with the FTC a response
    to a Civil Investigative Demand relating to Time Inc.’s
    retail subscription sales partnership with Best Buy.


 


    AOL is subject to certain consent orders and assurances of
    voluntary compliance or discontinuance reached with federal and
    state regulators. In 2004, AOL entered into a Consent Decree
    with the FTC related to the company’s retention and rebate
    practices. AOL has also entered into a series of settlements
    with state Attorneys General. In December 2007, the FTC advised
    AOL that it had closed its Consent Decree compliance
    investigation. In 2007, AOL entered into Assurances of Voluntary
    Compliance (“AVC”) with the State of Florida and a
    multi-state group under which it undertook an obligation to
    maintain various safeguards that it had previously implemented
    (and to develop and implement several new disclosure,
    confirmation and call recordation processes) around certain
    registration, marketing and retention processes. In 2005, AOL
    entered into an Assurance of Discontinuance with the State of
    New York under which it agreed to implement two safeguards
    around its retention process (third-party verification, which
    AOL had been testing prior to the investigation, and a change to
    retention compensation practices). AOL from time to time also is
    subject to investigations by various state regulators regarding
    consumer protection issues related to marketing and billing
    matters.



    
    29



Table of Contents





    DESCRIPTION
    OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENTS
    RELATED TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC.


 



    Background


 


    TWC was created in connection with the March 31, 2003
    restructuring of TWE (the “TWE Restructuring”), a
    limited partnership which formerly held a substantial portion of
    Time Warner’s filmed entertainment, networks and cable
    system assets.


 


    Among other things, as a result of the TWE Restructuring, all of
    Time Warner’s cable system assets, including those that
    were wholly owned by Time Warner and those that were held
    through TWE, became controlled by TWC. As part of the TWE
    Restructuring, Time Warner received a 79% economic interest in
    the cable systems of TWC and TWE, the non-cable system assets of
    TWE were distributed to Time Warner, and TWE, which continued to
    own cable systems, became a subsidiary of TWC. Comcast, which
    prior to the TWE Restructuring had a 27.64% stake in TWE,
    following the TWE Restructuring held 17.9% of TWC’s common
    stock and a 4.7% limited partnership interest in TWE.


 


    In connection with the closing on July 31, 2006 of the
    respective acquisitions by TW NY and Comcast of assets
    comprising in the aggregate substantially all of the cable
    assets of Adelphia (the “Adelphia Acquisition”), TW NY
    paid for the Adelphia assets acquired by it with both cash and
    shares of TWC’s Class A Common Stock representing
    approximately 16% of TWC’s outstanding common stock.
    Immediately prior to the Adelphia Acquisition, through a series
    of other transactions, TWC and TWE redeemed Comcast’s
    interests in TWC and TWE, respectively. On February 13,
    2007, Adelphia’s Chapter 11 reorganization plan became
    effective and, under applicable securities law regulations and
    provisions of the U.S. bankruptcy code, TWC became a public
    company subject to the requirements of the Exchange Act. Under
    the terms of the reorganization plan, during 2007, substantially
    all of the shares of TWC Class A Common Stock that Adelphia
    received in the Adelphia Acquisition were distributed to
    Adelphia’s creditors. On March 1, 2007, TWC’s
    Class A Common Stock began trading on the NYSE under the
    symbol “TWC.”


 


    Time Warner currently owns approximately 84% of TWC’s
    common stock (including approximately 83% of the outstanding TWC
    Class A Common Stock and all outstanding shares of TWC
    Class B Common Stock), and also currently owns an indirect
    12.43% non-voting equity interest in TW NY.


 


    On May 20, 2008, Time Warner, WCI, ATC and Historic TW
    entered into the Separation Agreement with TWC, TWE and TW NY,
    the terms of which will govern TWC’s legal and structural
    separation from Time Warner. As part of the Separation
    transactions, Time Warner will transfer its indirect 12.43%
    interest in TW NY to TWC in exchange for newly issued shares of
    TWC Class A Common Stock, each outstanding share of TWC
    Class A Common Stock and TWC Class B Common Stock will
    be converted into one share of TWC Common Stock (as discussed
    below) and Time Warner will distribute all of the issued and
    outstanding shares of TWC Common Stock then held by Time Warner
    to its stockholders through the Distribution. Time Warner has
    elected to effect the Distribution in the form of a spin-off.
    Upon consummation of the Separation transactions, Time
    Warner’s stockholders
    and/or
    former stockholders will hold approximately 85.2% of the issued
    and outstanding TWC common stock, and TWC’s stockholders
    other than Time Warner will hold approximately 14.8% of the
    issued and outstanding TWC common stock. Time Warner and TWC
    expect the Separation to be consummated in the first quarter of
    2009. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Results of Operations and Financial Condition – Recent
    Developments” for additional information regarding the
    Separation.


 


    Concurrently with the execution of the Separation Agreement,
    Time Warner and TWC entered into amendments to the shareholder
    agreement between Time Warner and TWC dated as of April 20,
    2005 and the registration rights agreement between Time Warner
    and TWC dated as of March 31, 2003. In addition, prior to
    the Distribution, TWC will adopt a Second Amended and Restated
    Certificate of Incorporation (the “TWC Second Amended and
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation”) and amend and
    restate its by-laws. Summaries of certain provisions of each of
    these documents are set forth below.



    
    30



Table of Contents





    Management
    and Operation of TWC


 


    The following description summarizes certain provisions of
    agreements related to, and constituent documents of, TWC that
    affect and govern the ongoing operations of TWC. Such
    description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in
    its entirety by reference to the provisions of such agreements
    and constituent documents.


 


    Common Stock of TWC. A subsidiary of Time Warner
    owns 746,000,000 shares of TWC Class A Common Stock,
    which has one vote per share, and 75,000,000 shares of TWC
    Class B Common Stock, which has ten votes per share, which
    together represent 90.6% of the voting power of TWC stock and
    approximately 84% of the equity of TWC. TWC’s existing
    amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the “TWC
    Certificate of Incorporation”) does not provide a mechanism
    for the conversion of TWC Class B Common Stock into TWC
    Class A Common Stock. The TWC Class A Common Stock and
    the TWC Class B Common Stock vote together as a single
    class on all matters, except with respect to the election of
    directors and certain matters described below. In connection
    with the Separation, prior to the Distribution, TWC will file
    the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
    with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. Effective
    upon the filing, each outstanding share of TWC Class A
    Common Stock and TWC Class B Common Stock will be
    automatically converted into one fully paid and non-assessable
    share of TWC Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the
    “TWC Common Stock”). Holders of TWC Common Stock will
    have identical rights and one vote per share on all matters
    submitted to a vote of stockholders.


 


    Board of Directors of TWC. Under the terms of the
    TWC Certificate of Incorporation and TWC’s existing by-laws
    (the “TWC By-laws”), the TWC Class A Common Stock
    votes as a separate class with respect to the election of the
    Class A directors of TWC (the “Class A
    Directors”), and the TWC Class B Common Stock votes as
    a separate class with respect to the election of the
    Class B directors of TWC (the “Class B
    Directors”). Class A Directors must represent not less
    than one-sixth and not more than one-fifth of the directors of
    TWC, and the Class B Directors must represent not less than
    four-fifths of the directors of TWC. As a result of its
    holdings, Time Warner has the ability to cause the election of
    all Class A Directors and Class B Directors, subject
    to certain restrictions on the identity of these directors
    discussed below. Under the TWC Second Amended and Restated
    Certificate of Incorporation, TWC will have a single class of
    directors and a single class of common stock and holders of TWC
    Common Stock will vote as one class for the election of all of
    the members of TWC’s board of directors.


 


    Under the terms of the TWC Certificate of Incorporation, until
    August 1, 2009, at least 50% of the board of directors of
    TWC must be independent directors as defined under the NYSE
    listed company rules. This provision will be retained in the TWC
    Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.


 


    Protections of Minority Class A Common
    Stockholders. Under the terms of the TWC Certificate of
    Incorporation, the approval of the holders of a majority of the
    voting power of the outstanding shares of TWC Class A
    Common Stock held by persons other than Time Warner is necessary
    for any merger, consolidation or business combination of TWC in
    which the holders of TWC Class A Common Stock do not
    receive per share consideration identical to that received by
    the holders of the TWC Class B Common Stock (other than
    with respect to voting power) or that would otherwise adversely
    affect the specific rights and privileges of the holders of the
    TWC Class A Common Stock relative to the specific rights
    and privileges of the holders of the TWC Class B Common
    Stock. In addition, the approval of (i) the holders of a
    majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of TWC
    Class A Common Stock held by persons other than Time Warner
    and (ii) the majority of the independent directors on
    TWC’s board of directors is required to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    change or adopt a provision inconsistent with the TWC
    Certificate of Incorporation if such change would have a
    material adverse effect on the rights of the holders of the TWC
    Class A Common Stock in a manner different from the effect
    on the rights of the holders of the TWC Class B Common Stock;




 



     
        •    

    
    through July 31, 2011, (a) change any of the
    provisions of the TWC By-Laws concerning restrictions on
    transactions between TWC and Time Warner and its affiliates or
    (b) adopt any provision of the TWC Certificate of
    Incorporation or the TWC By-Laws inconsistent with such
    restrictions; and






    
    31



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    change or adopt a provision inconsistent with the provisions of
    the TWC Certificate of Incorporation that set forth:





 




    
    
    



     
         •    

    
    the approvals required in connection with any merger,
    consolidation or business combination of TWC;




 



     
         •    

    
    the number of independent directors required on the TWC board of
    directors;




 



     
         •    

    
    the approvals required to change the TWC By-laws; and




 



     
         •    

    
    the approvals required to change the TWC Certificate of
    Incorporation.





 


    The TWC Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation
    will include provisions regarding required approvals that are
    substantially similar to those described above, except that,
    while the approval of the holders of a majority of the voting
    power of the outstanding shares of TWC Class A Common Stock
    held by persons other than Time Warner is currently required in
    certain circumstances, pursuant to the TWC Second Amended and
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the approval of the
    holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding
    shares of TWC Common Stock held by persons other than Time
    Warner will be required.


 



    Matters
    Affecting the Relationship between Time Warner and TWC


 



    Shareholder
    Agreement


 


    Indebtedness Approval Right. Pursuant to a
    shareholder agreement between TWC and Time Warner (the
    “Shareholder Agreement”), until such time as the
    indebtedness of TWC is no longer attributable to Time Warner, in
    Time Warner’s reasonable judgment, TWC, its subsidiaries
    and entities that it manages may not, without the consent of
    Time Warner, create, incur or guarantee any indebtedness (except
    for ordinary course issuances of commercial paper or borrowings
    under TWC’s current revolving credit facility up to the
    limit of that credit facility, to which Time Warner has
    consented), including preferred equity, or rental obligations if
    its ratio of indebtedness plus six times its annual rental
    expense to EBITDA (as EBITDA is defined in the Shareholder
    Agreement) plus rental expense, or “EBITDAR,” then
    exceeds or would exceed 3:1. In the Separation Agreement, Time
    Warner agreed that the calculation of indebtedness under the
    Shareholder Agreement would exclude (i) any indebtedness
    incurred pursuant to the credit agreement TWC entered into with
    certain financial institutions on June 30, 2008 to fund, in
    part, the Special Dividend and (ii) any indebtedness that
    reduces, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, the commitments of the
    lenders under that credit agreement.


 


    Time Warner Standstill. Under the Shareholder
    Agreement, so long as Time Warner has the power to elect a
    majority of TWC’s board of directors, Time Warner has
    agreed that, prior to August 1, 2009, Time Warner will not
    make or announce a tender offer or exchange offer for TWC
    Class A Common Stock without the approval of a majority of
    the independent directors of TWC; and prior to August 1,
    2016, Time Warner will not enter into any business combination
    with TWC, including a short-form merger, without the approval of
    a majority of the independent directors of TWC.


 


    Other Time Warner Rights. Pursuant to the
    Shareholder Agreement, so long as Time Warner has the power to
    elect a majority of TWC’s board of directors, TWC must
    obtain Time Warner’s consent before (i) entering into
    any agreement that binds or purports to bind Time Warner or its
    affiliates or that would subject TWC or its subsidiaries to
    significant penalties or restrictions as a result of any action
    or omission of Time Warner or its affiliates; or
    (ii) adopting a stockholder rights plan, becoming subject
    to section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law,
    adopting a “fair price” provision in its certificate
    of incorporation or taking any similar action.


 


    Furthermore, pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement, so long as
    Time Warner has the power to elect a majority of TWC’s
    board of directors, Time Warner may purchase debt securities
    issued by TWE only after giving notice to TWC of the approximate
    amount of debt securities it intends to purchase and the general
    time period for the purchase, which period may not be greater
    than 90 days, subject to TWC’s right to give notice to
    Time Warner that it intends to purchase such amount of TWE debt
    securities itself.



    
    32



Table of Contents




    Concurrently with the execution of the Separation Agreement,
    Time Warner and TWC entered into Amendment No. 1 to the
    Shareholder Agreement. Under this amendment, all of Time
    Warner’s and TWC’s rights and obligations under the
    Shareholder Agreement will terminate upon the completion of the
    Separation.


 



    Transactions
    between Time Warner and TWC


 


    The TWC By-Laws provide that Time Warner may only enter into
    transactions with TWC and its subsidiaries, including TWE, that
    are on terms that, at the time of entering into such
    transaction, are substantially as favorable to TWC or its
    subsidiaries as they would be able to receive in a comparable
    arm’s-length transaction with a third party. Any such
    transaction involving reasonably anticipated payments or other
    consideration of $50 million or greater also requires the
    prior approval of a majority of the independent directors of
    TWC. The TWC By-Laws also prohibit TWC from entering into any
    transaction having the intended effect of benefiting Time Warner
    and any of its affiliates (other than TWC and its subsidiaries)
    at the expense of TWC or any of its subsidiaries in a manner
    that would deprive TWC or any of its subsidiaries of the benefit
    it would have otherwise obtained if the transaction were to have
    been effected on arm’s-length terms. Each of these By-law
    provisions terminates in the event that Time Warner and TWC
    cease to be affiliates.


 


    The provisions described above will not be included in
    TWC’s amended and restated By-Laws that will become
    effective in connection with the Separation.


 



    Registration
    Rights Agreement


 


    At the closing of the TWE Restructuring, Time Warner and TWC
    entered into a registration rights agreement (the
    “Registration Rights Agreement”) relating to Time
    Warner’s shares of TWC common stock. Subject to several
    exceptions, including TWC’s right to defer a demand
    registration under some circumstances, Time Warner may, under
    that agreement, require that TWC take commercially reasonable
    steps to register for public resale under the Securities Act of
    1933, as amended, all shares of common stock that Time Warner
    requests to be registered. Time Warner may demand an unlimited
    number of registrations. In addition, Time Warner has been
    granted “piggyback” registration rights subject to
    customary restrictions and TWC is permitted to piggyback on Time
    Warner’s registrations. TWC has also agreed that, in
    connection with a registration and sale by Time Warner under the
    Registration Rights Agreement, it will indemnify Time Warner and
    bear all fees, costs and expenses, except underwriting discounts
    and selling commissions.


 


    Concurrently with the execution of the Separation Agreement,
    Time Warner and TWC entered into Amendment No. 1 to the
    Registration Rights Agreement, which provides Time Warner with
    the right to require TWC to file any registration statement
    necessary to consummate the Separation. In addition, under this
    amendment, all of Time Warner’s and TWC’s rights and
    obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement will
    terminate upon the consummation of the Distribution.


 



    FOREIGN
    CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES


 


    Time Warner is subject to various risks, including the risk of
    fluctuation in currency exchange rates and to exchange controls.
    Time Warner cannot predict the extent to which such controls and
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates may affect its
    operations in the future or its ability to remit dollars from
    abroad. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Market
    Risk Management — Foreign Currency Risk,”
    Note 13 to the Company’s consolidated financial
    statements, “Derivative Instruments,” and “Risk
    Factors” below, for additional information.


 



    FINANCIAL
    INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND
    BACKLOG


 


    Financial and other information by segment and revenues by
    geographic area for each year in the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2008 is set forth in Note 14 to the
    Company’s consolidated financial statements, “Segment
    Information.” Information with respect to the
    Company’s backlog, representing future revenue not yet
    recorded from cash contracts for the licensing of theatrical and
    television product, at December 31, 2008 and



    
    33



Table of Contents




    December 31, 2007, is set forth in Note 15 to the
    Company’s consolidated financial statements,
    “Commitments and Contingencies —
    Commitments — Programming Licensing Backlog.”







 




    
    



    
    Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY


 


    Weakening economic conditions or other factors could
    continue to reduce the Company’s advertising or other
    revenues or hinder its ability to maintain or increase such
    revenues. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be
    cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions, such as
    recessions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. The global
    economy is currently undergoing a period of slowdown and
    unprecedented volatility, which some observers view as a
    recession, and the future economic environment may continue to
    be less favorable than that of recent years. This slowdown could
    lead to further reduced advertising expenditures in the
    foreseeable future. Because several of the Company’s
    segments derive a substantial portion of their revenues from the
    sale of advertising, declines and delays in advertising
    expenditures could continue to reduce the Company’s
    revenues and hinder its ability to maintain or increase these
    revenues. Advertising expenditures also could be negatively
    affected by other factors, such as shifting societal norms,
    pressure from public interest groups, changes in laws and
    regulations and other social, political, technological and
    regulatory developments. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political
    uncertainty or hostilities also could lead to a reduction in
    advertising expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news
    coverage and economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures by
    companies in certain sectors of the economy, including the
    automotive, financial services, pharmaceutical, retail,
    telecommunications and food and beverage industries, represent a
    significant portion of the Company’s advertising revenues,
    and any political, economic, social or technological change
    resulting in a significant reduction in the advertising spending
    of these or other sectors could further adversely affect the
    Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to maintain
    or increase such revenues.


 


    Economic slowdowns may have, and in the case of the current
    economic slowdown, have had, additional consequences that impact
    the Company’s business and results of operations. Because
    many of the products and services offered by the Company are
    largely discretionary items, further weakening economic
    conditions or outlook could lead to declines in sales of such
    products and services. In addition, declines in consumer
    spending may indirectly impact the Company’s revenues by
    adversely affecting the sales of products that are required to
    use the Company’s products, such as high definition
    televisions and high definition DVD players, or by putting
    downward pricing pressure on advertising because advertisers may
    not perceive as much value in advertising if consumers are
    purchasing fewer of their products or services. Accordingly,
    declines in consumer spending could have additional negative
    effects on the Company’s revenues or the Company’s
    ability to increase revenues. In addition, if growth in the
    number of homes occupied continues to decline, it could
    negatively impact TWC’s ability to attract new or retain
    existing basic video subscribers and generate increased
    subscription revenues. The Company also faces risks associated
    with the impact of economic downturns on third parties, such as
    suppliers, retailers, film co-financing partners and other
    parties with which it does business. If these parties file for
    protection under bankruptcy laws or otherwise experience
    negative effects on their businesses due to the economic
    slowdown or other reasons related to economic conditions, it
    could negatively affect the Company’s business or operating
    results.


 


    Time Warner is exposed to risks associated with turmoil in
    the financial markets. U.S. and global credit and
    equity markets have recently undergone significant disruption,
    making it difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on
    acceptable terms. In addition, equity markets are continuing to
    experience wide fluctuations in value. If these conditions
    continue or worsen, the Company’s cost of borrowing may
    increase, and it may be more difficult to obtain financing in
    the future. In addition, an increasing number of financial
    institutions and insurance companies have reported significant
    deterioration in their financial condition. If any of the
    significant lenders, insurance companies or other financial
    institutions are unable to perform their obligations under the
    Company’s credit agreements, insurance policies or other
    contracts, and the Company is unable to find suitable
    replacements on acceptable terms, the Company’s results of
    operations, liquidity and cash flows could be adversely
    affected. The Company also faces challenges relating to the
    impact of the disruption in the global financial markets on
    other parties with which the Company does business, such as
    vendors, retailers and film
    co-financing
    partners. The inability of these parties to obtain financing on
    acceptable terms could impair their ability to perform under
    their agreements with the Company and lead to various negative
    effects on the Company, including business disruption,



    
    34



Table of Contents




    decreased revenues, increases in bad debt write-offs and, in the
    case of film
    co-financing
    partners, greater risk with respect to the performance of the
    Company’s films. A sustained decline in the financial
    stability of these parties could have an adverse impact on Time
    Warner’s business and results of operations.


 


    Time Warner faces risks relating to doing business
    internationally that could adversely affect its business and
    operating results. Time Warner’s businesses
    operate and serve customers worldwide. There are certain risks
    inherent in doing business internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    economic volatility and the global economic slowdown;








     
        •    

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations;








     
        •    

    
    the requirements of local laws and customs relating to the
    publication and distribution of content and the display and sale
    of advertising;








     
        •    

    
    import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations;








     
        •    

    
    difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing
    a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance and
    language and cultural differences;








     
        •    

    
    issues related to occupational safety and adherence to stringent
    local labor laws and regulations;








     
        •    

    
    potentially adverse tax developments;








     
        •    

    
    longer payment cycles;








     
        •    

    
    political or social unrest;








     
        •    

    
    seasonal volatility in business activity;








     
        •    

    
    risks related to government regulation;








     
        •    

    
    the existence in some countries of statutory shareholder
    minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership;








     
        •    

    
    the presence of corruption in certain countries; and








     
        •    

    
    higher than anticipated costs of entry.





 


    One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s
    international operations and its business and operating results.


 


    Time Warner’s businesses face additional risks
    internationally. The Company could be at a competitive
    disadvantage in the long term if its businesses are not able to
    strengthen their positions and capitalize on international
    opportunities in growth economies and media sectors.
    International expansion involves significant investments as well
    as risks associated with doing business abroad, as described
    above. Furthermore, investments in some regions can take a long
    period to generate an adequate return and in some cases there
    may not be a developed or efficient legal system to protect
    foreign investment or intellectual property rights. In addition,
    if the Company expands into new international regions, some of
    its businesses will have only limited experience in operating
    and marketing their products and services in certain regions and
    could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors with more
    experience, particularly diversified media companies that are
    well established in some developing nations. Although the
    Company is seeking to expand in certain strategic international
    regions and is formulating strategies for the growth of
    diversified media businesses in developing nations, there can be
    no assurance that such strategies will succeed.


 


    The introduction and increased popularity of alternative
    technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and
    other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits
    and/or
    advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could
    adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing,
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. The
    Company’s Publishing and Networks segments derive a
    substantial portion of their revenue from advertising in
    magazines and on television. Distribution of news, entertainment
    and other information via the Internet has become increasingly
    popular over the past several years, and viewing news,
    entertainment and other content on a personal computer, cellular
    phone or other electronic or portable electronic device has
    become increasingly popular as well. Accordingly, advertising
    dollars have started to shift from traditional media to online
    media. The shift in major advertisers’ expenditures from
    traditional to online media has had an adverse effect on the
    revenue growth of the Publishing and Networks segments, which
    may continue in the future. This shift could also further
    intensify competition for advertising in traditional media,
    which could exert greater pressure on these segments to increase
    revenues from online advertising. In addition, if consumers
    increasingly elect to obtain news and entertainment online
    instead of by purchasing the Publishing segment’s
    magazines, this trend could negatively impact the segment’s
    circulation revenue and also adversely affect its advertising
    revenue. The Publishing and Networks segments have taken



    
    35



Table of Contents




    various steps to diversify the means by which they distribute
    content and generate advertising revenue, including increasing
    investments in Internet properties. However, the segments’
    strategies for achieving sustained revenue growth may not be
    sufficient to offset revenue losses resulting from a continued
    shift in advertising dollars over the long term from traditional
    to online media. In addition, this trend also could have an
    indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by
    the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by
    Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming
    in syndication and to basic cable networks.


 


    Several of the Company’s businesses operate in
    industries that are subject to rapid technological change, and
    if Time Warner does not respond appropriately to technological
    changes, its competitive position may be
    harmed. Time Warner’s businesses operate in
    the highly competitive, consumer-driven and rapidly changing
    media, entertainment, interactive services and cable industries.
    Several of its businesses are dependent to a large extent on
    their ability to acquire, develop, adopt, and exploit new and
    existing technologies to distinguish their products and services
    from those of their competitors. Technological development,
    application and exploitation can take long periods of time and
    require significant capital investments. In addition, the
    Company may be required to anticipate far in advance which of
    the potential new technologies and equipment it should adopt for
    new products and services or for future enhancements of or
    upgrades to its existing products and services. If it chooses
    technologies or equipment that do not become the prevailing
    standard or that are less effective, cost-efficient or
    attractive to its customers than those chosen by its
    competitors, or if it offers products or services that fail to
    appeal to consumers, are not available at competitive prices or
    do not function as expected, the Company’s competitive
    position could deteriorate, and its operations, business or
    financial results could be adversely affected.


 


    The Company’s competitive position also may be adversely
    affected by various timing factors, such as delays in its new
    product or service offerings or the ability of its competitors
    to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products
    and services more quickly than the Company. Furthermore,
    advances in technology or changes in competitors’ product
    and service offerings may require the Company in the future to
    make additional research and development expenditures or to
    offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain
    products and services the Company currently offers to customers
    separately or at a premium. Also, if the costs of existing
    technologies decrease in the future, the Company may not be able
    to maintain current price levels for its products or services.
    In addition, the inability to obtain intellectual property
    rights from third parties at a reasonable price or at all could
    impair the ability of the Company to respond to technological
    advances in a timely or cost-effective manner.


 


    The combination of increased competition, more
    technologically-advanced platforms, products and services, the
    increasing number of choices available to consumers and the
    overall rate of change in the media, entertainment, interactive
    services and cable industries requires companies such as Time
    Warner to become more responsive to consumer needs and to adapt
    more quickly to market conditions than in the past. The Company
    could have difficulty managing these changes while at the same
    time maintaining its rates of growth and profitability.


 


    The Company faces risks relating to competition for the
    leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has
    intensified in part due to advances in
    technology. In addition to the various competitive
    factors discussed in the following paragraphs, all of the
    Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating to
    increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of
    consumers, and this competition may intensify further during
    economic downturns. The Company’s businesses compete with
    each other and all other sources of news, information and
    entertainment, including broadcast television, movies, live
    events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games,
    sports, print media and the Internet. Technological
    advancements, such as video on demand, new video formats and
    Internet streaming and downloading, have increased the number of
    media and entertainment choices available to consumers and
    intensified the challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The
    increasing number of choices available to audiences could
    negatively impact not only consumer demand for the
    Company’s products and services, but also advertisers’
    willingness to purchase advertising from the Company’s
    businesses. If the Company does not respond appropriately to
    further increases in the leisure and entertainment choices
    available to consumers, the Company’s competitive position
    could deteriorate, and its financial results could suffer.


 


    Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television
    programming and other content may decrease the revenues received
    from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment
    content and adversely affect its business and
    profitability. Piracy of motion pictures,
    television programming, video content, DVDs and interactive
    videogames poses significant challenges to several of the
    Company’s businesses. Technological advances allowing the



    
    36



Table of Contents




    unauthorized dissemination of motion pictures, television
    programming and other content in unprotected digital formats,
    including via the Internet, increase the threat of piracy. Such
    technological advances make it easier to create, transmit and
    distribute high quality unauthorized copies of such content. The
    proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of the
    Company’s products or the products it licenses from third
    parties can have an adverse effect on its businesses and
    profitability because these products reduce the revenue that
    Time Warner potentially could receive from the legitimate sale
    and distribution of its content. In addition, if piracy
    continues to increase, it could have an adverse effect on the
    Company’s business and profitability. Although piracy
    adversely affects the Company’s U.S. revenues, the
    impact on revenues from outside the United States is more
    significant, particularly in countries where laws protective of
    intellectual property rights are insufficient or are not
    strictly enforced. Policing the unauthorized use of the
    Company’s intellectual property is difficult, and the steps
    taken by the Company to combat piracy will not prevent the
    infringement by
    and/or
    piracy of unauthorized third parties in every case. There can be
    no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its
    rights and protect its intellectual property will be successful
    in reducing content piracy.


 


    Time Warner’s businesses may suffer if it cannot
    continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights
    on which its businesses depend. The Company relies
    on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in the
    United States and similar laws in other countries, and licenses
    and other agreements with its employees, customers, suppliers
    and other parties, to establish and maintain its intellectual
    property rights in technology and products and services used in
    its various operations. However, the Company’s intellectual
    property rights could be challenged or invalidated, or such
    intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit it
    to take advantage of current industry trends or otherwise to
    provide competitive advantages, which could result in costly
    redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product and service
    offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws of
    certain countries do not protect Time Warner’s proprietary
    rights, or such laws may not be strictly enforced. Therefore, in
    certain jurisdictions the Company may be unable to protect its
    intellectual property adequately against unauthorized copying or
    use, which could adversely affect its competitive position.
    Also, because of the rapid pace of technological change in the
    industries in which the Company operates, much of the business
    of its various segments relies on technologies developed or
    licensed by third parties, and Time Warner may not be able to
    obtain or to continue to obtain licenses from these third
    parties on reasonable terms, if at all. It is also possible
    that, in connection with a merger, sale or acquisition
    transaction, the Company may license its trademarks or service
    marks and associated goodwill to third parties, or the business
    of various segments could be subject to certain restrictions in
    connection with such trademarks or service marks and associated
    goodwill that were not in place prior to such a transaction.


 


    The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to
    claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have
    an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating
    results due to a disruption in its business operations, the
    incurrence of significant costs and other
    factors. From time to time, the Company receives
    notices from others claiming that it infringes their
    intellectual property rights. Recently, the number of patent
    infringement claims resulting in lawsuits, in particular against
    the technology-related businesses at AOL, has increased. The
    number of other intellectual property infringement claims also
    could increase in the future. Increased infringement claims and
    lawsuits could require Time Warner to enter into royalty or
    licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial
    monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently
    from further use of the intellectual property in question. This
    could require Time Warner to change its business practices and
    limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if Time Warner
    believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be
    time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s
    attention and resources away from its businesses. In addition,
    agreements entered into by the Company may require it to
    indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual
    property infringement claims, which could require the Company to
    expend sums to defend against or settle such claims or,
    potentially, to pay damages. If Time Warner is required to take
    any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the
    Company’s businesses or operating results. The use of new
    technologies to distribute content on the Internet, including
    through Internet sites providing social networking and
    user-generated content, could put some of the Company’s
    businesses at an increased risk of allegations of copyright or
    trademark infringement or legal liability, as well as cause them
    to incur significant technical, legal or other costs and limit
    their ability to provide competitive content, features or tools.



    
    37



Table of Contents




    Several of the Company’s businesses rely heavily on
    network and information systems or other technology, and a
    disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as
    a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other
    malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental
    releases of information or similar events, may disrupt the
    Company’s businesses. Because network and
    information systems and other technologies are critical to many
    of Time Warner’s operating activities, network or
    information system shutdowns or service disruptions caused by
    events such as computer hacking, dissemination of computer
    viruses, worms and other destructive or disruptive software,
    denial of service attacks and other malicious activity, as well
    as power outages, natural disasters, terrorist attacks and
    similar events, pose increasing risks. Such an event could have
    an adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including
    degradation of service, service disruption, excessive call
    volume to call centers and damage to equipment and data. Such an
    event also could result in large expenditures necessary to
    repair or replace such networks or information systems or to
    protect them from similar events in the future. Significant
    incidents could result in a disruption of the Company’s
    operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss of customers or
    revenues.


 


    Furthermore, the operating activities of Time Warner’s
    various businesses could be subject to risks caused by
    misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental
    release or loss of information maintained in the information
    technology systems and networks of the Company and third party
    vendors, including customer, personnel and vendor data. The
    Company could be exposed to significant costs if such risks were
    to materialize, and such events could damage the reputation and
    credibility of Time Warner and its businesses and have a
    negative impact on its revenues. The Company also could be
    required to expend significant capital and other resources to
    remedy any such security breach. As a result of the increasing
    awareness concerning the importance of safeguarding personal
    information, the potential misuse of such information and
    legislation that has been adopted or is being considered
    regarding the protection, privacy and security of personal
    information, information-related risks are increasing,
    particularly for businesses like Time Warner’s that handle
    a large amount of personal customer data.


 


    The Company’s Internet and advertising businesses are
    subject to regulation in the U.S. and internationally,
    which could cause these businesses to incur additional costs or
    liabilities or disrupt their business
    practices. The Company’s businesses that
    generate revenues from online activities and the sale of
    advertising inventory and related services are subject to a
    variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to
    issues such as privacy, online gaming, consumer protection, data
    retention and data protection, content regulation, defamation,
    age verification, the use of “cookies” (such as
    software that allows for audience targeting and tracking of
    performance metrics), pricing, advertising to both children and
    adults, taxation, sweepstakes, promotions, billing and real
    estate. The application of such laws and regulations to these
    businesses in many instances is unclear or unsettled. Further,
    the application of laws regulating or requiring licenses for
    certain businesses of the Company’s advertisers, including
    the distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, adult content,
    tobacco or firearms, insurance and securities brokerage and
    legal services, can be unclear and is developing, especially
    with respect to the sale of these products and services on the
    Internet. Various laws and regulations are intended to protect
    the interests of children, such as the Children’s Online
    Privacy Protection Act, which restricts the ability of
    online services to collect user information from minors. There
    have been additional federal and state legislative proposals for
    online child protection, including with respect to the ability
    of minors to access social networking services. The
    Company’s Internet and advertising businesses could incur
    substantial costs necessary to comply with these laws and
    regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if
    they fail to comply with them. Compliance with these laws and
    regulations also could cause these businesses to change or limit
    their business practices in a manner that is adverse to the
    businesses. In addition, if there are changes in laws, such as
    the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the Communications
    Decency Act, that provide protections that the Company’s
    Internet or advertising businesses rely on in conducting their
    businesses or if there are judicial interpretations narrowing
    the protections of these laws, it would subject these businesses
    to greater risk of liability and could increase their costs of
    compliance or limit their ability to operate certain lines of
    business.



    
    38



Table of Contents





    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S AOL BUSINESS


 


    AOL’s business model involves significant
    risks. AOL has transitioned from a business that has
    primarily focused on generating subscription revenues to one
    that is more focused on attracting and engaging Internet
    consumers. During the shift in its business model and on a
    continuing basis, AOL’s subscription revenues have been
    declining, and these declines in subscription revenues have not
    been offset by increases in advertising revenues. Subscription
    revenues will remain an important source of operating income
    before depreciation and amortization (or OIBDA) for AOL in 2009,
    and if subscribers to AOL’s Internet access service decline
    at a rate faster than anticipated, AOL’s ability to
    generate OIBDA in 2009 may be adversely affected.


 


    Following the transition, AOL has become more dependent on
    advertising revenues to maintain or improve its financial
    performance. Cost reductions need to be made in order to better
    align AOL’s costs with an advertising-supported business
    model, to maintain or improve its financial performance and to
    adjust to weakening economic conditions. However, identifying
    and implementing cost reductions is becoming increasingly
    difficult to do in an operationally effective manner and is
    leading to employee distraction and a decline in morale, as well
    as difficulty in hiring and retaining necessary employees. In
    addition, AOL is now more prone to the risks associated with
    operating an advertising business. Advertising revenues are more
    unpredictable and variable than subscription revenues and are
    more likely to be adversely affected during economic downturns.
    AOL’s advertising business has benefited from growth in
    online advertising, and if online advertising does not continue
    to grow, whether because of changing economic conditions or
    otherwise, AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely
    affected. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner
    Generally — Weakening economic conditions or other
    factors could continue to reduce the Company’s advertising
    or other revenues or hinder its ability to maintain or increase
    such revenues,” as well as the risks relating to AOL’s
    advertising business described below.


 


    Demand and pricing for, and volume sold of, online
    advertising may face downward pressure. During
    2008, AOL experienced lower demand from a number of advertiser
    categories (e.g., the retail, financial services, and automotive
    industries), a higher proportion of sales made through
    lower-priced sales channels, and pricing declines in certain
    inventory segments. In order for advertising revenues to be
    maintained or increased in 2009 over 2008, AOL believes that it
    will be important to increase the overall volume of advertising
    sold, including sales of advertising through its higher-priced
    channels and to maintain or increase pricing for advertising. If
    overall demand continues to decline, if sales continue to trend
    towards lower-priced sales channels or if overall pricing
    declines occur, AOL’s advertising revenues, operating
    margins and its ability to generate OIBDA could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Uncertainty about a possible sale or other disposition of
    AOL is having an adverse impact on AOL’s workforce that
    could negatively affect AOL’s business. In
    2008, the Company began a strategic review of its ownership of
    AOL. The uncertainty regarding AOL’s ownership status has
    had an adverse impact on employee morale and AOL’s ability
    to attract and retain employees and thus may adversely impact
    AOL’s ability to implement its business strategy, as well
    as its advertising relationships and its ability to operate
    effectively or efficiently.


 


    AOL’s lack of a proprietary search service may have
    an adverse impact on AOL’s advertising
    revenues. Unlike its key competitors for search
    advertising revenues, AOL does not own or control a search
    service and instead relies on Google to provide search services.
    As a result, AOL is not able to package and sell search
    advertising along with display advertising services outside the
    AOL Network and certain Time Warner digital properties. As
    search advertising represents a significant portion of online
    advertising spending, AOL believes that its lack of a
    proprietary search service may have an adverse impact on its
    ability to generate and increase advertising revenues.


 


    AOL faces risks associated with its dependence upon Google
    for search services. Google is the exclusive unpaid
    and paid web search provider for substantially all of the AOL
    Network and AOL’s products. In 2008, search advertising
    revenues comprised approximately one-third of AOL’s total
    advertising revenues and was the only category of AOL’s
    advertising revenues that grew year-over-year. Changes that
    Google has made and may unilaterally make in the future to its
    paid search service or advertising network, including changes in
    pricing, algorithms or advertising relationships, could have a
    significant negative impact on AOL’s advertising revenues.
    Furthermore, AOL has agreed to use Google’s algorithmic
    search and sponsored links on an exclusive basis through
    December 19, 2010. Upon expiration of this agreement, there
    can be no assurance that if the agreement is renewed,



    
    39



Table of Contents




    AOL would receive the same or a higher revenue share as it does
    under the current agreement, nor can there be any assurance that
    if AOL enters into an arrangement with an alternative search
    provider, the terms would be as favorable as those under the
    current Google agreement.


 


    AOL faces intense competition in all aspects of its
    business. The Internet is dynamic and rapidly
    evolving, and new and popular competitors, such as social
    networking sites, frequently emerge. Although AOL acquired Bebo,
    Inc. in 2008, Bebo faces strong competition from bigger and more
    established social networking sites. Competition among companies
    offering advertising products, technology and services and
    aggregators of third-party advertising inventory, advertising
    products, technology and services is intense and may contribute
    to continuing decreases in prices for certain advertising
    inventory that would negatively affect AOL’s Platform-A
    business unit. As AOL expands internationally, it will face
    intense competition from both global and local competitors. In
    addition, competition generally may cause AOL to incur
    unanticipated costs associated with research and product
    development. The competition faced by AOL’s Access Services
    business, especially from broadband access providers, could
    cause the number of AOL subscribers to decline at a faster rate
    than experienced in the past. There can be no assurance that AOL
    will be able to compete successfully in the future with existing
    or potential competitors or that competition will not have an
    adverse effect on its business or results of operations.


 


    Following the sales of AOL’s Access Services
    businesses in Europe, AOL depends on third parties for
    advertising revenues in Europe, and actions taken by such third
    parties could adversely impact AOL’s advertising
    revenues. AOL has sold to third parties its access
    businesses, including its subscriber relationships, in the U.K.,
    France and Germany. AOL depends on the current owners of these
    businesses and its relationships with its former subscribers to
    generate advertising revenues in these countries. AOL provides
    to the owners of its former access businesses varying levels of
    programming and advertising services and receives a portion of
    advertising revenues generated from certain activities. If one
    or more of these agreements is terminated by these third party
    or these parties take actions that impact AOL’s
    relationships with its former subscribers, AOL’s
    advertising revenues could be adversely affected.


 


    Changes to third-party software made by the third-party
    providers or by consumers could have an adverse impact on
    AOL’s advertising business. AOL’s
    advertising business is dependent upon third-party software,
    such as browsers, in order for advertising to be delivered,
    rendered, measured and reported, and changes made by the third
    parties or consumers to functionality, features or settings
    within this software could have an adverse impact on AOL’s
    advertising business. Also, other third party software may be
    used to block advertisements or delete cookies, and the
    widespread adoption and use of such software may have an adverse
    impact on AOL’s advertising business.


 


    AOL faces risks associated with the fragmentation of the
    Internet audience. Consumers are fragmenting across
    the Internet, away from portals, such as AOL.com and Yahoo!, and
    migrating towards social networks and niche websites. AOL has
    continued to acquire other companies, products and technologies
    and to purchase or develop content, applications, features and
    tools designed to attract and engage Internet consumers to
    address this fragmentation. However, there can be no assurance
    that these efforts will result in an increased number of
    consumers or increased engagement by Internet consumers on the
    AOL Network. Furthermore, as Internet consumers continue to
    fragment, advertisers could increasingly seek to purchase
    advertising from third-party advertising networks or directly on
    niche sites, which could benefit the Platform-A business unit
    but could adversely impact the advertising revenue generated on
    the AOL Network.


 


    If AOL does not continue to develop and offer compelling
    and differentiated content, products and services, AOL’s
    advertising revenues could be adversely
    affected. In order to attract Internet consumers
    and generate increased activity on the AOL Network, AOL believes
    that it must offer compelling and differentiated content,
    products and services. However, acquiring, developing and
    offering such content, products and services may require
    significant costs and time to develop, while consumer tastes may
    be difficult to predict and are subject to rapid change. If AOL
    is unable to provide content, products and services that are
    sufficiently attractive to its current and former subscribers
    and other Internet consumers, AOL may not be able to generate
    the increases in activity on the AOL Network necessary to
    generate increased paid-search and display advertising revenues.
    In addition, although AOL has access to certain content provided
    by the Company’s other businesses, it may be required to
    make substantial payments to license such content. Many of
    AOL’s content arrangements with third parties are
    non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or
    identical content. If AOL is unable to acquire or develop



    
    40



Table of Contents




    compelling content and do so at reasonable prices, or if other
    companies offer content that is similar to that provided by AOL,
    AOL may not be able to attract and increase the engagement of
    Internet consumers on the AOL Network. Even if AOL successfully
    develops and offers compelling and differentiated content,
    products and services, AOL’s advertising revenues may not
    increase.


 


    Continued growth in AOL’s advertising business also depends
    on the ability of the Platform-A business unit to continue
    offering a competitive and distinctive range of advertising
    products and services for advertisers and publishers and its
    ability to maintain or increase prices for its advertising
    products and services. Continuing to develop and improve these
    products and services may require significant time and costs. If
    the Platform-A business unit cannot continue to develop and
    improve its advertising products and services or if prices for
    its advertising products and services decrease, AOL’s
    advertising revenues could be adversely affected.


 


    If AOL cannot effectively distribute its content, products
    and services, AOL may not be able to attract new Internet
    consumers or maintain or increase the engagement of Internet
    consumers and may not be able to increase advertising
    revenues. Distribution of AOL’s content,
    products and services is subject to significant competition.
    Furthermore, as the Internet audience continues to fragment and
    traffic continues to gravitate away from the Internet portals,
    distribution of AOL’s content, products and services via
    traditional methods may become less effective, and new
    distribution strategies may need to be developed. Even if AOL is
    able to effectively distribute its content, products and
    services, this does not assure that AOL will be able to attract
    new Internet consumers and maintain or increase the engagement
    of Internet consumers on the AOL Network. For example, consumers
    may choose not to access or utilize the AOL content, products or
    services even if they are made available to them. Accordingly,
    even if AOL is able to effectively distribute its content,
    products and services, AOL’s advertising revenues may not
    increase.


 


    Unless AOL increases the number of visitors to the AOL
    Network and maintains or increases their activity in areas where
    advertising revenues are generated, and even if it succeeds in
    doing so, AOL may not be able to increase advertising revenues
    associated with the AOL Network. In general,
    current and former subscribers are significantly more active on
    the AOL Network than other visitors to the AOL Network. As the
    number of AOL’s subscribers declines, AOL’s ability to
    maintain or increase advertising revenues may be adversely
    impacted unless the former subscribers are as active on the AOL
    Network after terminating their paid Internet access
    relationship with AOL as they were previously. In addition, AOL
    needs to increase the number of visitors, whether or not current
    or former subscribers, to the AOL Network and maintain or
    increase overall usage in order to continue to increase
    advertising revenues associated with the AOL Network.
    Furthermore, different online activities generate different
    volumes of advertising, sold at differing prices. It will be
    important that new visitors to the AOL Network be active on
    those properties that generate generally higher priced and
    higher volumes of advertising, leading to greater advertising
    revenues, and that as subscribers migrate to become unpaid
    accounts, their activity on the AOL Network continues in a
    manner similar to their activity before such migration. Even if
    the number of visitors to the AOL Network increases and even if
    their activity increases in areas where advertising revenues are
    generated, AOL’s advertising revenues may not increase.


 


    More individuals are using devices other than personal and
    laptop computers to access and use the Internet, and if AOL
    cannot make its content, products and services available and
    attractive to consumers via these alternative devices,
    AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely
    affected. Individuals increasingly are accessing
    and using the Internet through devices other than a personal or
    laptop computer, such as personal digital assistants or mobile
    telephones, which differ from computers with respect to memory,
    functionality, resolution and screen size. In order for
    consumers to access and use AOL’s content, products and
    services via these alternative devices, AOL must ensure that its
    content, products and services are technologically compatible
    with such devices. AOL also needs to secure arrangements with
    device manufacturers and wireless carriers in order to have
    desktop placement on the alternative devices and to more
    effectively reach consumers. If AOL cannot effectively make its
    content, products and services available on alternative devices,
    fewer Internet consumers may access and use AOL’s content,
    products and services. Also, the Platform-A business unit must
    be able to compose, package, and deliver compelling advertising
    on alternative devices, and the advertising revenue it generates
    may be negatively affected if it is not able to effectively do
    so.


 


    Acquisitions of other companies could have an adverse
    impact on AOL’s operations and result in unanticipated
    liabilities. During 2007 and 2008, AOL acquired
    14 companies and may make additional



    
    41



Table of Contents




    acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. If AOL
    does not effectively integrate the operations and systems of
    Bebo, Inc. and the Platform-A companies (including Perfiliate
    Limited (doing business as buy. at), ADTECH, Quigo Technologies
    LLC and TACODA LLC), it could negatively affect AOL’s
    ability to compete effectively and increase advertising
    revenues. The completion of acquisitions and strategic
    investments and the integration of acquired businesses involve a
    substantial commitment of resources. In addition, past or future
    transactions may be accompanied by a number of risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    the uncertainty of AOL’s returns on investment due to the
    new and developing industries (e.g., mobile advertising) in
    which some of the acquired companies operate;








     
        •    

    
    the adverse impact of known potential liabilities or unknown
    liabilities, such as claims of patent or other intellectual
    property infringement, associated with the companies acquired or
    in which AOL invests;








     
        •    

    
    the difficulty of integrating technology, administrative
    systems, personnel and operations of acquired companies into
    AOL’s services, systems and operations and unanticipated
    expenses related to such integration;








     
        •    

    
    potential loss of key talent at acquired companies;








     
        •    

    
    the potential disruption of AOL’s on-going business and
    distraction of its management;








     
        •    

    
    additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses AOL
    acquires or in which it invests and the failure of such
    businesses to perform as expected;








     
        •    

    
    the failure to successfully further develop acquired technology
    resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as
    intangible assets;








     
        •    

    
    the difficulty of reconciling possibly conflicting or
    overlapping contractual rights and duties; and








     
        •    

    
    the impairment of relationships with customers, partners and
    employees as a result of the combination of acquired operations
    and new management personnel.





 


    The failure to successfully address these risks or other
    problems encountered in connection with past or future
    acquisitions and strategic investments could cause AOL to fail
    to realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions and
    incur unanticipated liabilities and could harm its business and
    operating results.


 


    New or changing federal, state or international privacy
    legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of AOL’s
    business. A variety of federal, state and
    international laws govern the collection, use, retention,
    sharing and security of consumer data that AOL uses to operate
    its services and to deliver certain advertisements to its
    customers, as well as the technologies used to collect such
    data. Not only are existing privacy-related laws in these
    jurisdictions evolving and subject to potentially disparate
    interpretation by governmental entities, new legislative
    proposals affecting privacy are now pending at both the federal
    and state level in the U.S. Changes to the interpretation
    of existing law or the adoption of new privacy-related
    requirements could adversely impact AOL’s advertising
    revenues. Also, a failure or perceived failure to comply with
    such laws or requirements or with AOL’s own policies and
    procedures could result in significant liabilities, including a
    possible loss of consumer or investor confidence or a loss of
    customers or advertisers.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO THE TWC SEPARATION AND TIME WARNER’S CABLE
    BUSINESS


 


    The Company may not achieve some or all of the benefits
    that it expects from the Separation. Time Warner
    believes that the Separation will result in several benefits to
    the Company, including increased long-term strategic, financial,
    operational and regulatory flexibility, a more efficient capital
    structure, a corporate structure that will better enable
    management to focus on Time Warner’s content and other
    businesses and further enhancement of the efficacy of equity
    incentives granted to management of those businesses. Similarly,
    TWC believes that the Separation will result in several benefits
    to TWC, including increased long-term strategic, operational and
    regulatory flexibility and a more efficient capital structure.
    The Company cannot predict with certainty when these benefits
    will occur or the extent to which they actually will be
    achieved, if at all. Furthermore, even if some or all of these
    benefits are achieved, they may not result in the creation of
    value for Time Warner and TWC stockholders.


 


    After the Separation, Time Warner’s businesses will
    be less diversified, which may adversely affect its business and
    operating results. After the Separation is
    completed, Time Warner will have a different operational and
    financial profile. Time Warner’s current diversification of
    revenue sources, resulting from TWC’s businesses



    
    42



Table of Contents




    together with the Company’s other businesses, tends to
    moderate operational volatility. The substantial majority of the
    revenues currently generated by TWC are subscription revenues.
    Certain of the Company’s divisions other than TWC derive a
    substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of
    advertising and content. Due to a number of factors, advertising
    and content revenues are generally more variable and less
    predictable than subscription revenues. Following the
    Separation, the Company will have less diversification of
    revenue sources, and, as a result, Time Warner’s results of
    operations, cash flows, working capital and financing
    requirements may be subject to increased volatility.


 


    In addition, all of TWC’s operations are domestic, while
    Time Warner’s other divisions operate and serve customers
    worldwide. After the Separation, Time Warner’s exposure to
    the risks related to doing business internationally will
    increase proportionately. These risks include, among other
    things, economic volatility, currency exchange rate fluctuations
    and risks related to government regulation. One or more of these
    risks could adversely affect the Company’s international
    operations and its overall business and operating results.


 


    TWC has incurred a substantial amount of debt, which may
    limit its flexibility or prevent it from taking advantage of
    business opportunities. In connection with the
    Separation, TWC incurred $7.0 billion of indebtedness
    pursuant to two public offerings of senior unsecured notes and
    debentures completed in 2008 to fund, in part, the Special
    Dividend and is expected to incur additional indebtedness to
    fund the Special Dividend and expenses related to the Separation
    Transactions through a combination of borrowings under
    TWC’s bridge facility, additional financing in the public
    debt markets
    and/or
    borrowings under TWC’s revolving credit facility. The
    increased indebtedness and the terms of TWC’s financing
    arrangements and any future indebtedness will impose various
    restrictions on TWC that could limit its ability to respond to
    market conditions, provide for its capital investment needs or
    take advantage of business opportunities. In addition, as a
    result of TWC’s increased borrowings, its interest expense
    will be higher than it has been in the past, which will affect
    TWC’s profitability and cash flows.


 


    If the TWC Separation Transactions are determined to be
    taxable for income tax purposes, Time Warner and Time
    Warner’s stockholders that are subject to
    U.S. federal, state or local income tax could incur
    significant income tax liabilities. The TWC
    Separation Transactions are conditioned upon Time Warner’s
    receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue
    Service (the “IRS”) and opinions of tax counsel
    confirming that the TWC Separation Transactions should generally
    qualify as tax-free to Time Warner and its stockholders. The
    ruling and opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions,
    representations and undertakings from Time Warner and TWC
    regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’
    businesses and other matters. If any of these facts,
    assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or
    not otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may
    not be able to rely on the ruling or the opinions and could be
    subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the
    private letter ruling and opinions, the IRS or state or local
    tax authorities (collectively with the IRS, the “Tax
    Authorities”) could determine on audit that the TWC
    Separation Transactions should be treated as taxable
    transactions if the Tax Authority determines that any of these
    facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not
    correct or have been violated, or for other reasons, including
    as a result of significant changes in the stock ownership of
    Time Warner or TWC after the Distribution. Under the tax sharing
    agreement among Time Warner and TWC, TWC generally would be
    required to indemnify Time Warner against its taxes resulting
    from the failure of any of the TWC Separation Transactions to
    qualify as tax-free (“Transaction Taxes”) as a result
    of (i) certain actions or failures to act by TWC or
    (ii) the failure of certain representations to be made by
    TWC to be true. However, in the event that Transaction Taxes are
    incurred for any other reason, Time Warner would not be entitled
    to indemnification. In addition, due to the potential impact of
    significant stock ownership changes on the taxability of the TWC
    Separation Transactions, Time Warner and TWC may determine not
    to enter into transactions that might otherwise be advantageous,
    such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing needs or
    acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, if such
    issuances would exceed certain thresholds and such actions could
    be considered part of a plan or series of related transactions
    that include the Distribution.


 


    The Tax Authorities may challenge the tax
    characterizations of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions
    or the Exchange, or related valuations, and any successful
    challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely
    affect Time Warner’s tax profile, significantly increase
    its future cash tax payments and significantly reduce its future
    earnings and cash flow. The Adelphia Acquisition
    was designed to be a fully taxable asset sale,



    
    43



Table of Contents




    the TWC Redemption was designed to qualify as a tax-free
    split-off under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of
    1986, as amended (the “Tax Code”), the TWE Redemption
    was designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership
    interest in TWE, and the Exchange was designed as an exchange of
    designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however,
    that the Tax Authorities will not challenge one or more of such
    characterizations or the related valuations. Such a successful
    challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely
    affect Time Warner’s tax profile (including its ability to
    recognize the intended tax benefits from these transactions),
    significantly increase its future cash tax payments and
    significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The tax
    consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and
    the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to
    significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to,
    uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and
    local income tax laws to various transactions and events
    contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation.


 


    TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could
    negatively affect its business and financial
    results. TWC’s industry is and will continue
    to be highly competitive. Any inability to compete effectively
    or an increase in competition with respect to video, high-speed
    data or voice services could have an adverse effect on
    TWC’s financial results and return on capital expenditures
    due to possible increases in the cost of gaining and retaining
    subscribers and lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or
    cause a decline in TWC’s growth rates, reduce its revenues,
    reduce the number of its subscribers or reduce its ability to
    increase penetration rates for services. As TWC expands and
    introduces new and enhanced services, it may be subject to
    competition from other providers of those services, such as
    telecommunications providers, Internet service providers and
    consumer electronics companies, among others. In addition,
    future advances in technology, as well as changes in the
    marketplace, in the economy and in the regulatory and
    legislative environments, may result in changes to the
    competitive landscape. TWC cannot predict the extent to which
    competition will affect its future business and financial
    results or return on capital expenditures.


 


    Significant unanticipated increases in the use of
    bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services could negatively
    impact customer demand for TWC’s video services and
    increase TWC’s costs. The rising popularity of
    bandwidth-intensive Internet-based services poses special risks
    for TWC’s video and high-speed data businesses. Examples of
    such services include peer-to-peer file sharing services, gaming
    services and the delivery of video via streaming technology and
    by download. Increasingly, content owners are delivering content
    directly to consumers over the Internet, often without charging
    a fee for access to the content. The increasing availability of
    free content over the Internet could negatively impact customer
    demand for TWC’s video services, especially premium and
    On-Demand services, and could result in content owners seeking
    higher license fees from TWC in order to subsidize such free
    distribution. In addition, if heavy usage of bandwidth-intensive
    services grows beyond TWC’s current expectations, TWC may
    need to invest more capital than currently anticipated to expand
    the bandwidth capacity of its systems or TWC’s customers
    may have a suboptimal experience when using TWC’s
    high-speed data service. Also, in order to continue to provide
    quality service at attractive prices, TWC needs the continued
    flexibility to develop and refine business models that respond
    to changing consumer uses and demands and manage bandwidth usage
    efficiently. TWC’s ability to do these things could be
    restricted by legislative efforts to impose so-called “net
    neutrality” requirements on cable operators.


 


    TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental
    regulation, which could adversely affect its
    business. TWC’s video and voice services are
    subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local
    levels. In addition, the federal government has extended some
    regulation to high-speed data service and is considering
    additional regulations. TWC is also subject to regulation of its
    video services relating to rates, equipment, technologies,
    programming levels and types of services, taxes and other
    charges. Modification to existing regulations or the imposition
    of new regulations could have an adverse impact on TWC’s
    services. If the United States Congress (“Congress”)
    or regulators were to disallow the use of certain technologies
    TWC uses today or to mandate the implementation of other
    technologies, TWC’s services and results of operations
    could suffer. TWC expects that legislative enactments, court
    actions, and regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and
    in some cases change the rights of cable companies and other
    entities providing video, high-speed data and voice services
    under the



    
    44



Table of Contents




    Communications Act and other laws, possibly in ways that TWC has
    not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial, and
    administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s business
    operations in various areas, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    Carriage Regulations.  The FCC’s “must
    carry” rules require TWC to carry some local broadcast
    television signals on some of its cable systems that it might
    not otherwise carry. If the FCC seeks to revise or expand the
    “must carry” rules, such as to require carriage of
    multicast streams, TWC would be forced to carry video
    programming that it would not otherwise carry and potentially to
    drop other, more popular programming in order to free capacity
    for the required programming, which could make TWC less
    competitive. The FCC’s “program carriage” rules
    restrict cable operators and MVPDs from unreasonably restraining
    the ability of an unaffiliated programming vendor to compete
    fairly by discriminating against the programming vendor on the
    basis of its non-affiliation in the selection, terms or
    conditions for carriage. The FCC has launched a proceeding to
    examine its substantive and procedural rules for program
    carriage. TWC is unable to predict whether such proceeding will
    lead to any material changes in existing regulations. Any change
    in the existing carriage regulations or successful program
    carriage complaints could restrict TWC’s ability to select
    programming that is attractive to its subscribers.








     
        •    

    
    Voice Services.  Traditional providers of voice
    services generally are subject to significant regulations. It is
    unclear to what extent those regulations (or other regulations)
    apply to providers of interconnected Voice over IP
    (“VoIP”) services, including TWC’s. In orders
    over the past several years, the FCC subjected interconnected
    VoIP service providers to a number of obligations applicable to
    traditional voice service. To the extent that the FCC (or
    Congress) imposes additional burdens on such providers,
    TWC’s operations could be adversely affected.





 


    “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could
    limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business
    profitably and manage its broadband facilities efficiently to
    respond to growing bandwidth usage by its high-speed data
    customers. Several disparate groups have adopted
    the term “net neutrality” in connection with their
    efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules that
    could limit the ability of broadband providers to effectively
    manage or operate their broadband networks. Proponents of
    “net neutrality” advocate a variety of regulations,
    including regulations that prohibit broadband providers from
    recovering the costs of rising bandwidth usage from any parties
    other than retail customers, require absolute nondiscrimination
    for any Internet traffic and require forms of “open
    access.” The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s
    high-speed data customers has been increasing significantly in
    recent years as the amount of high-bandwidth content and the
    number of applications available on the Internet continue to
    grow. In order to continue to provide quality service at
    attractive prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to
    develop and refine business models that respond to changing
    consumer uses and demands and to manage bandwidth usage
    efficiently. As a result, depending on the form it might take,
    “net neutrality” legislation or regulation could
    adversely impact TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed
    data network profitably and undertake the upgrades that may be
    needed to continue to provide high quality high-speed data
    services and could negatively impact its ability to compete
    effectively.


 


    If TWC is prohibited by regulation from using SDV
    technology, it may be forced to make costly upgrades to its
    system in order to remain competitive. As of
    December 31, 2008, TWC had deployed switched digital video,
    or SDV, technology to approximately 5.2 million digital
    video subscribers. SDV technology allows TWC to save bandwidth
    by transmitting particular programming services only to groups
    of homes or nodes where subscribers are viewing the programming
    at a particular time rather than broadcasting it to all
    subscriber homes. The FCC may interpret existing regulation or
    introduce new regulation to restrict cable operators’
    ability to use SDV technology. If TWC is prohibited by
    regulation from using SDV technology, TWC may have difficulty
    carrying the volume of HDTV channels and other
    bandwidth-intensive traffic carried by competitors and may be
    forced to make costly upgrades to its systems in order to remain
    competitive.


 


    Increases in programming or retransmission costs or an
    inability to obtain popular programming could adversely affect
    TWC’s operations, business or financial
    results. Video programming costs represent a major
    component of TWC’s expenses and are expected to continue to
    increase, primarily due to the increasing cost of obtaining
    desirable programming, particularly broadcast and sports
    programming. TWC’s video service margins have declined in
    recent years and will continue to decline over the next few
    years as cable programming and broadcast station retransmission
    consent cost increases outpace growth in video revenues.
    Furthermore, providers of desirable content may be unwilling to
    enter into distribution arrangements with TWC on acceptable
    terms. In



    
    45



Table of Contents




    addition, owners of non-broadcast video programming content may
    enter into exclusive distribution arrangements with TWC’s
    competitors. A failure to carry programming that is attractive
    to TWC’s subscribers could adversely impact TWC’s
    subscription and advertising revenues.


 


    TWC may encounter unforeseen difficulties as it increases
    the scale of its offerings to commercial
    customers. TWC has sold video, high-speed data and
    network and transport services to businesses for some time and
    in 2007 introduced an
    IP-based
    telephony service, Business Class Phone, geared to small-
    and medium-sized businesses. In order to provide its commercial
    customers with reliable services, TWC may need to increase
    expenditures, including spending on technology, equipment and
    personnel. If the services are not sufficiently reliable or TWC
    otherwise fails to meet commercial customers’ expectations,
    the growth of its commercial services business may be limited.
    In addition, TWC faces competition from the existing local
    telephone companies as well as from a variety of other national
    and regional business services competitors. If TWC is unable to
    successfully attract and retain commercial customers, its
    growth, financial condition and results of operations may be
    adversely affected.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO BOTH THE TIME WARNER
    NETWORKS AND FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES


 


    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments must
    respond to recent and future changes in technology, services and
    standards and changes in consumer behavior to remain competitive
    and continue to increase their revenue. Technology
    in the video, telecommunications and data services used in the
    entertainment industry continues to evolve rapidly, and advances
    in technology, such as
    video-on-demand,
    new video formats and distribution via the Internet and cellular
    networks, have led to alternative methods of product delivery
    and storage. Certain changes in consumer behavior driven by
    these methods of delivery and storage could have a negative
    effect on the revenue of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment
    segments. For example, devices that allow users to view
    television programs or motion pictures from a remote location or
    to stream or download such programming from third parties may
    cause changes in consumer behavior that could negatively affect
    the subscription revenue of cable system and direct broadcast
    satellite, or DBS, operators and telephone companies and
    therefore have a corresponding negative effect on the
    subscription revenue generated by the Networks segment and the
    licensing revenue generated by the Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments. Also, content owners are increasingly
    delivering their content directly to consumers over the
    Internet, often without charge, and consumer electronics
    innovations have enabled consumers to watch such
    Internet-delivered content on television sets, which could have
    a similar negative effect on the segments’ revenue. In
    addition, devices such as digital video recorders, or DVRs, that
    enable users to view television programs or motion pictures on a
    time-delayed basis or allow them to fast-forward or skip
    advertisements or network-based deployments of DVR-like
    technology may cause changes in consumer behavior that could
    adversely affect the advertising revenue of the
    advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment and have
    an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated
    by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by
    Home Box Office from the licensing of its original programming
    in syndication and to basic cable networks. In addition, further
    increased use of portable digital devices that allow users to
    view content of their own choice, at a time of their choice,
    while avoiding traditional commercial advertisements, could
    adversely affect such advertising and licensing revenue. The
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments must continue to
    adapt their content to changing viewership habits in order to
    remain competitive. If they cannot adapt to the changing
    lifestyles and preferences of consumers and capitalize on
    technological advances with favorable business models, it could
    have a negative impact on their businesses.


 


    Technological developments also pose other challenges for the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments that could adversely
    impact their revenue and competitive position. For example, the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may not have the
    right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute
    their licensed content across new delivery platforms that are
    developed. In addition, technological developments that enable
    third-party owners of programming to bypass traditional content
    aggregators, such as the Turner networks and Home Box Office,
    and deal directly with cable system and other content
    distributors could place limitations on the ability of the
    segments to distribute their content that could have an adverse
    impact on their revenue. Cable system and DBS operators are
    developing new techniques that enable them to transmit more
    channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted
    audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and
    potentially furthering the development of



    
    46



Table of Contents




    more specialized niche audiences. A greater number of options
    increases competition for viewers, and competitors targeting
    programming to narrowly defined audiences may improve their
    competitive position compared to the Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments for television advertising and for
    subscription and licensing revenue. In addition, traditional
    audience measures have evolved with emerging technologies that
    can measure viewing audiences with improved sensitivity, which
    has resulted in changes to the basis for pricing and
    guaranteeing the advertising contracts of the
    advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment. There
    may be future technical and marketplace developments that will
    result in new audience measurements that may be used as the
    basis for the pricing and guaranteeing of such advertising. Any
    significant decrease in measured audiences for advertising on
    the advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment could
    have a significant negative impact on the advertising revenue of
    such networks and the licensing revenue generated by the Filmed
    Entertainment segment as well as the revenue generated by Home
    Box Office from the licensing of its original programming in
    syndication and to basic cable networks. The ability to
    anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and consumer
    preferences on a timely basis and exploit new sources of revenue
    from these changes will affect the ability of the Networks and
    Filmed Entertainment segments to continue to grow and increase
    their revenue.


 


    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments operate in
    highly competitive industries. The Company’s
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment businesses generate revenue
    primarily through the production and distribution of feature
    films, television programming, home video products and
    interactive videogames, licensing fees, the sale of advertising
    and subscriber fees paid by affiliates. Competition faced by the
    businesses within these segments is intense and comes from many
    different sources. The ability of the Company’s Networks
    and Filmed Entertainment segments to compete successfully
    depends on many factors, including their ability to provide
    high-quality and popular entertainment product, adapt to new
    technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread
    distribution. There has been consolidation in the media
    industry, and the Company’s Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments’ competitors include industry
    participants with interests in other multiple media businesses
    that are often vertically integrated. Such vertical integration
    could have various negative effects on the competitive position
    of the Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment
    segments. For example, vertical integration of other television
    networks and television and film production companies could
    adversely impact the Networks segment if it hinders the ability
    of the Networks segment to obtain programming for its networks.
    In addition, if purchasers of programming increasingly purchase
    their programming from production companies with which they are
    affiliated, such vertical integration could have a negative
    effect on the Filmed Entertainment segment’s licensing
    revenue and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the
    licensing of its original programming in syndication and to
    basic cable networks. There can be no assurance that the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments will be able to
    compete successfully in the future against existing or potential
    competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect
    on their businesses or results of operations.


 


    Although piracy poses risks to several of Time
    Warner’s businesses, such risks are especially significant
    for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments due to the
    prevalence of piracy of feature films, television programming
    and interactive videogames. See “Risks
    Relating to Time Warner Generally — Piracy of the
    Company’s feature films, television programming and other
    content may decrease the revenues received from the exploitation
    of the Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect
    its business and profitability.”


 


    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments are subject
    to labor interruption. The Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments and certain of their suppliers retain the
    services of writers, directors, actors, technicians, trade
    employees and others involved in the development and production
    of motion pictures and television programs who are covered by
    collective bargaining agreements. If the segments and their
    suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining
    agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take
    actions in the form of strikes, work slowdowns or work
    stoppages. Such actions would cause delays in the production or
    the release dates of the segments’ feature films and
    television programs, as well as result in higher costs either
    from such actions or less favorable terms of the applicable
    agreements on renewal. Even if the affected unions do not take
    such actions, the inability to renew expiring agreements and the
    possibility that a strike, work slowdown or work stoppage may
    occur could cause delays in the production or release dates of
    films and television programs. As of February 19, 2009, The
    Screen Actors Guild (“SAG”), which covers performers
    in feature films and filmed television programs, and the
    producers of such content had not reached an agreement on
    contracts that expired on June 30, 2008. Productions have
    been delayed to avoid costly shutdowns due to the potential of a
    SAG strike, and, if



    
    47



Table of Contents




    an agreement is not reached or SAG goes on strike, it will cause
    further delays in production and consequently the release dates
    of the segments’ feature films and television programs, as
    well as higher costs resulting either from such actions or less
    favorable terms contained in the applicable agreements on
    renewal. The agreements between the producers and the American
    Federation of Musicians (the “AFM”) expire on
    February 25, 2009, and the status of negotiations with SAG
    could adversely affect negotiations with the AFM.


 


    The popularity of the Company’s television programs,
    films and interactive videogames and other factors are difficult
    to predict and could lead to fluctuations in the revenue of the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment
    segments. Television program, film and interactive
    videogame production and distribution are inherently risky
    businesses largely because the revenue derived from the
    production and distribution of a television program, motion
    picture or videogame, as well as the licensing of rights to the
    intellectual property associated with a program, film or
    videogame, depends primarily on its acceptance by the public,
    which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a
    television program, feature film or interactive videogame also
    depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing
    programs, films and videogames released at or near the same
    time, the availability of alternate forms of entertainment and
    leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other
    tangible and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to
    predict. In the case of the Turner networks, audience sizes are
    also factors that are weighed when determining their advertising
    rates. Poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a
    reduction in pricing and advertiser demand. Further, the
    theatrical success of a motion picture may affect revenue from
    other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and pay
    television programming services, and sales of interactive
    videogames and licensed consumer products. Therefore, low public
    acceptance of the television programs, feature films or
    interactive videogames of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment
    segments may adversely affect their respective results of
    operations.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
    BUSINESS


 


    DVD sales have been declining, which may adversely affect
    the Filmed Entertainment segment’s growth prospects and
    results of operations. Several factors, including
    weakening economic conditions, the deteriorating financial
    condition of major retailers, the maturation of the DVD format,
    increasing competition for consumer discretionary spending and
    leisure time, piracy and increased competition for retailer
    shelf space, are contributing to an industry-wide decline in DVD
    sales both domestically and internationally. The high definition
    format war between the HD DVD and Blu-ray formats ended in
    February 2008 with Toshiba Corporation’s announcement of
    its decision to discontinue its HD DVD businesses; however,
    reduced consumer discretionary spending in a challenging
    economic environment, may slow widespread adoption of the
    Blu-ray format or lead consumers to forego adopting a high
    definition DVD format altogether, which would adversely affect
    DVD sales. DVD sales also may be negatively affected as
    consumers increasingly shift from consuming physical
    entertainment products to digital forms of entertainment. The
    filmed entertainment industry faces a challenge in managing the
    transition from physical to electronic formats in a manner that
    continues to support the current DVD business and its
    relationships with large retail customers and yet meets the
    growing consumer demand for delivery of filmed entertainment in
    a variety of electronic formats. There can be no assurance that
    home video wholesale prices can be maintained at current levels,
    due to aggressive retail pricing, digital competition and other
    factors. In addition, in the event of a protracted economic
    downturn, reduced consumer discretionary spending could lead to
    further declines in DVD sales. A continuing decline in DVD sales
    could have an adverse impact on the segment’s growth
    prospects and results of operations.


 


    The Filmed Entertainment segment’s strategy includes
    the release of a limited number of “event” films each
    year, and the underperformance of one or more of these films
    could have an adverse effect on the Filmed Entertainment
    segment’s results of operations and financial
    condition. The Filmed Entertainment segment expects
    to theatrically release a limited number of feature films each
    year that are expected to be “event” or
    “tent-pole” films and that generally have higher
    production and marketing costs than the other films released
    during the year. The underperformance of one of these films can
    have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of
    operations in both the year of release and in the future.
    Historically, there has been a correlation between domestic box
    office success and international box office success, as well as
    a correlation between box office success and success in the
    subsequent distribution channels of home video and television.
    If the segment’s films fail to achieve box office



    
    48



Table of Contents




    success, the results of operations and financial condition of
    the Filmed Entertainment segment could be adversely affected.
    Further, there can be no assurance that these historical
    correlations will continue in the future.


 


    A decrease in demand for television product could
    adversely affect Warner Bros.’
    revenues. Warner Bros. is a leading supplier of
    television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for
    Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the
    launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the
    number of original programs ordered by the networks and the
    per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near
    term. In addition, such a decrease in demand could lead to a
    reduction in syndication revenues in the future. Various factors
    may increase the risk of such a decrease in demand, including
    station group consolidation and vertical integration between
    station groups and broadcast networks, as well as the vertical
    integration between television production studios and broadcast
    networks, which can increase the networks’ reliance on
    their in-house or affiliated studios. In addition, the failure
    of ratings for the programming to meet expectations and the
    shift of viewers and advertisers away from network television to
    other entertainment and information outlets could adversely
    affect the amount of original programming ordered by networks
    and the amount they are willing to pay for such programming.
    Local television stations may face loss of viewership and an
    accompanying loss of advertising revenue as viewers move to
    other entertainment outlets, which may negatively impact the
    segment’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in
    syndication that it has received in the past. Finally, the
    increasing popularity of local television content in
    international markets also could result in decreased demand,
    fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and
    syndication revenue for U.S. television content.


 


    The costs of producing and marketing feature films have
    increased and may increase in the future, which may make it more
    difficult for a film to generate a profit. The
    production and marketing of feature films require substantial
    capital, and the costs of producing and marketing feature films
    have generally increased in recent years. These costs may
    continue to increase in the future, which may make it more
    difficult for the segment’s films to generate a profit. As
    production and marketing costs increase, it creates a greater
    need to generate revenue internationally or from other media,
    such as home video, television and new media.


 


    Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films
    could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the
    amortization of film production costs. The Filmed
    Entertainment segment is required to amortize capitalized film
    production costs over the expected revenue streams as it
    recognizes revenue from the associated films. The amount of film
    production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on
    how much future revenue the segment expects to receive from each
    film. Unamortized film production costs are evaluated for
    impairment each reporting period on a
    film-by-film
    basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to
    recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but
    unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production
    costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter,
    if the segment lowers its forecast with respect to total
    anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would
    be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs.
    Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely
    impact the operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESS


 


    The loss of affiliation agreements could cause the revenue
    of the Networks segment to decline in any given period, and
    further consolidation of multichannel video programming
    distributors could adversely affect the
    segment. The Networks segment depends on
    affiliation agreements with cable system and DBS operators and
    telephone companies for the distribution of its networks and
    services, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation
    agreements will be renewed in the future on terms that are
    acceptable to the Networks segment. The renewal of such
    agreements on less favorable terms may adversely affect the
    segment’s results of operations. In addition, the loss of
    any one of these arrangements representing a significant number
    of subscribers or the loss of carriage on the most widely
    penetrated programming tiers could reduce the distribution of
    the segment’s programming, which may adversely affect its
    advertising and subscription revenue. The loss of favorable
    packaging, positioning, pricing or other marketing opportunities
    with any distributor of the segment’s networks also could
    reduce subscription revenue. In addition, further consolidation
    among cable system and DBS operators has provided greater
    negotiating power to such distributors, and increased vertical
    integration of such distributors



    
    49



Table of Contents




    could adversely affect the segment’s ability to maintain or
    obtain distribution
    and/or
    marketing for its networks and services on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all.


 


    The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to
    popular programming or create popular original programming could
    adversely affect the segment’s revenue. The
    Networks segment obtains a significant portion of its popular
    programming from third parties. For example, some of
    Turner’s most widely viewed programming, including sports
    programming, is made available based on programming rights of
    varying durations that it has negotiated with third parties.
    Competition for popular programming licensed from third parties
    is intense, and the businesses in the segment may be outbid by
    their competitors for the rights to new popular programming or
    in connection with the renewal of popular programming they
    currently license. In addition, renewal costs could
    substantially exceed the existing contract costs. Alternatively,
    third parties from which the segment obtains programming, such
    as professional sports teams or leagues, may create their own
    networks.


 


    The operating results of the Networks segment also fluctuate
    with the popularity of its programming with the public, which is
    difficult to predict. Revenue from the segment’s businesses
    is therefore partially dependent on the segment’s ability
    to develop strong brand awareness and target key audience
    demographics, as well as its ability to continue to anticipate
    and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior on a timely
    basis. Moreover, the Networks segment derives a portion of its
    revenue from the exploitation of the Company’s library of
    feature films, animated titles and television titles. If the
    content of the Company’s programming libraries ceases to be
    of interest to audiences or is not continuously replenished with
    popular original content, the revenue of the Networks segment
    could be adversely affected.


 


    Increases in the costs of programming licenses and other
    significant costs may adversely affect the gross margins of the
    Networks segment. As described above, the Networks
    segment licenses a significant amount of its programming, such
    as motion pictures, television series, and sports events, from
    movie studios, television production companies and sports
    organizations. For example, the Turner networks have obtained
    the rights to produce and broadcast significant sports events,
    such as the NBA play-offs, the Major League Baseball play-offs
    and a series of NASCAR races. If the level of demand for quality
    content exceeds the amount of quality content available, the
    networks may have to pay significantly higher licensing costs,
    which in turn will exert greater pressure on the segment to
    offset such increased costs with higher advertising
    and/or
    subscription revenue. There can be no assurance that the
    Networks segment will be able to renew existing or enter into
    additional license agreements for its programming and, if so, if
    it will be able to do so on terms that are similar to existing
    terms. There also can be no assurance that it will be able to
    obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses over new
    distribution platforms on acceptable terms. If it is unable to
    obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable
    terms, the gross margins of the Networks segment may be
    adversely affected.


 


    The Networks segment also produces programming, and it incurs
    costs for new programming concepts and various types of creative
    talent, including actors, writers and producers. The segment
    incurs additional significant costs, such as newsgathering and
    marketing costs. Unless they are offset by increased revenue,
    increases in the costs of creative talent or in production,
    newsgathering or marketing costs may lead to decreased profits
    at the Networks segment.


 


    The maturity of the U.S. video services business,
    together with rising retail rates, distributors’ focus on
    selling alternative products and other factors, could adversely
    affect the future revenue growth of the Networks
    segment. The U.S. video services business
    generally is a mature business, which may have a negative impact
    on the ability of the Networks segment to achieve incremental
    growth in its advertising and subscription revenues. In
    addition, programming distributors may increase their resistance
    to wholesale programming price increases, and programming
    distributors are increasingly focused on selling services other
    than video, such as high-speed data and voice services. Also,
    consumers’ basic video service rates have continued to
    increase, which could cause consumers to cancel their video
    service subscriptions or reduce the number of services they
    subscribe to, and the risk of this occurring may be greater
    during economic slowdowns. The inability of the Networks segment
    to implement measures to maintain future revenue growth may
    adversely affect its business.


 


    Changes in U.S. or foreign communications laws or
    other regulations may have an adverse effect on the business of
    the Networks segment. The multichannel video
    programming and distribution industries in the
    United States, as well as cable networks, are regulated by
    U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered



    
    50



Table of Contents




    by various federal agencies, including the FCC. The
    U.S. Congress and the FCC currently are considering, and
    may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies
    regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or
    indirectly, affect the operations of the Networks segment.


 


    For example, there has been consideration of the extension of
    indecency rules applicable to over-the-air broadcasters to cable
    and satellite programming and stricter enforcement of existing
    laws and rules. If such an extension or attempt to increase
    enforcement occurred and were upheld, the content of the
    Networks segment could be subject to additional regulation,
    which could increase the segment’s operating costs and
    negatively affect subscriber and viewership levels. Moreover,
    the determination of whether content is indecent is inherently
    subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to predict whether
    particular content would violate indecency standards. The
    difficulty in predicting whether individual programs, words or
    phrases may violate the FCC’s indecency rules adds
    uncertainty to the ability of the Networks segment to comply
    with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could lead to
    sanctions that may adversely affect the businesses and results
    of operations of the Networks segment. Policymakers have also
    raised concerns about violence in television programming, as
    well as the potential impact on childhood obesity rates of food
    and beverage advertising during children’s television
    programming. The Networks segment is unable to predict whether
    any new or revised regulations will result from these various
    activities.


 


    In June 2008, the FCC initiated a proceeding to examine the use
    of product placement and integration in television programming.
    The FCC has sought comment on whether to enhance its existing
    sponsorship identification disclosure rules, extend such rules
    to cable networks and expressly prohibit the use of paid product
    placement or integration in children’s television
    programming. Extension of the sponsorship identification
    disclosure rules, particularly enhanced rules, to the Networks
    segment could impose additional costs on the segment and inhibit
    its flexibility in using paid product placement or integration
    in connection with certain types of programming content. The
    Networks segment is unable to predict whether any new or revised
    regulations will result from this proceeding.


 


    Policymakers have also expressed interest in exploring whether
    cable operators should offer “à la carte”
    programming to subscribers on a
    network-by-network
    basis or provide “family-friendly” tiers, and a number
    of cable operators, including TWC, have voluntarily agreed to
    offer family tiers. The FCC also is examining the manner in
    which some programming distributors package or bundle services
    sold to distributors; the same conduct is at issue in
    industry-wide antitrust litigation pending in Federal court in
    Los Angeles, in which the plaintiffs seek to prohibit wholesale
    bundling practices prospectively. The unbundling or tiering of
    program services may reduce the distribution of certain cable
    networks, thereby creating the risk of reduced viewership and
    increased marketing expenses, and may affect the segment’s
    ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising
    dollars.


 


    Declining DVD sales poses risks to the Networks
    segment. The Networks segment generates a portion
    of its revenues through the sale of its content on DVDs, and a
    continuing decline in DVD sales could have a negative impact on
    the segment’s growth prospects and results of operations.
    See “Risks Relating to Time Warner’s Filmed
    Entertainment Business – DVD sales have been
    declining, which may adversely affect the Filmed Entertainment
    segment’s growth prospects and results of operations.”


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS


 


    Although weakening economic conditions pose risks to
    several of the Company’s businesses, such risks are
    particularly significant for the Company’s Publishing
    segment because a substantial portion of the segment’s
    revenue is derived from the sale of print and digital
    advertising, both of which have been negatively affected by such
    conditions. See “Risks Relating to Time Warner
    Generally — Weakening economic conditions or other
    factors could continue to reduce the Company’s advertising
    or other revenues or hinder its ability to increase such
    revenues.” Poor economic conditions have had a negative
    impact on print advertising spending, and this spending may not
    rebound when economic conditions improve or it may take several
    years for such a rebound to occur. The industry-wide slowdown in
    digital display advertising expenditures could continue to
    adversely affect the segment’s ability to increase digital
    advertising revenues. In addition, weakening economic conditions
    could reduce consumer expenditures, which could adversely affect
    the Publishing segment’s subscription revenues.



    
    51



Table of Contents




    The Publishing segment could face increased costs and
    business disruption resulting from instability in the wholesaler
    distribution channel. The Publishing segment
    operates a national distribution business that relies on
    wholesalers to distribute its magazines to newsstands and other
    retail outlets. A small number of wholesalers are responsible
    for a substantial percentage of the wholesale magazine
    distribution business in the U.S. Recently, there has been
    significantly increased instability in the wholesaler channel
    that has led to one major wholesaler leaving the business and to
    certain disruptions to magazine distribution. There is the
    possibility of further consolidation among these major
    wholesalers and insolvency of or non-payment by one or more of
    these wholesalers, especially in light of the economic climate
    and its impact on retailers. Distribution channel disruptions
    can temporarily impede the Publishing segment’s ability to
    distribute magazines to the retail marketplace, which could,
    among other things, negatively affect the ability of certain
    magazines to meet the rate base established with advertisers.
    Continued disruption in the wholesaler channel, an increase in
    wholesaler costs or the failure of wholesalers to pay amounts
    due could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s
    operating income or cash flow.


 


    Although the shift in consumer habits
    and/or
    advertising expenditures from traditional to online media poses
    risks to several of the Company’s businesses, such risks
    are particularly significant for the Company’s Publishing
    segment because a substantial portion of the segment’s
    revenue is derived from the sale of
    advertising. See “Risks Relating to Time
    Warner Generally — The introduction and increased
    popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of
    news, entertainment and other information and the resulting
    shift in consumer habits
    and/or
    advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could
    adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing,
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments.”


 


    The Publishing segment faces significant competition for
    advertising and audience. The Publishing segment
    faces significant competition from several direct competitors
    and other media, including the Internet. Additional competitors
    may enter the website publishing business and further intensify
    competition, which could have an adverse impact on the
    segment’s revenue. Competition for print advertising
    expenditures has intensified in recent years as advertising
    spending has increasingly shifted from traditional to digital
    media, and this competition has intensified even further due to
    difficult economic conditions. There can be no assurance that
    the Publishing segment will be able to compete successfully in
    the future against existing or potential competitors or that
    competition will not have an adverse effect on its business or
    results of operations.


 


    The Publishing segment faces risks relating to various
    regulatory and legislative matters, including possible changes
    in Audit Bureau of Circulations rules and possible changes in
    legislation or regulation of direct marketing. The
    Publishing segment’s magazine subscription and direct
    marketing activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and
    the states under general consumer protection statutes
    prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas
    of marketing activity are also subject to specific federal
    statutes and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection
    Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy), and the
    FTC Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule. Other statutes and
    rules also regulate conduct in areas such as privacy, data
    security, product safety and telemarketing. New statutes and
    regulations are adopted frequently. A number of states have
    recently proposed “Do Not Mail” legislation, similar
    to Federal “Do Not Call” legislation, which would
    allow consumers to register their names on a list and not
    receive direct mail. If such bills are passed, the potential
    impact on Time Inc.’s circulation and other business
    conducted via direct mail could be significant. In addition, the
    Publishing segment’s magazine subscription activities are
    subject to the rules of the Audit Bureau of Circulations. New
    rules, as well as new interpretations of existing rules, are
    periodically adopted by the Audit Bureau of Circulations and
    could lead to changes in the segment’s magazine circulation
    practices that could have a negative effect on the
    segment’s ability to generate new magazine subscriptions,
    meet rate bases and support advertising sales.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1B