Item 1A, “Risk
    Factors,” and “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Caution Concerning Forward-Looking
    Statements.”


 



    Available
    Information and Website


 


    The Company’s annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”)
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”),
    are available free of charge on the Company’s website at
    www.timewarner.com as soon as reasonably practicable
    after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to
    the SEC. The Company is providing the address to its website
    solely for the information of investors. The Company does not
    intend the address to be an active link or to incorporate the
    contents of the website into this report.


 



    NETWORKS


 


    The Company’s Networks businesses consist principally of
    domestic and international networks and premium pay television
    services. The networks owned by Turner Broadcasting System, Inc.
    (“Turner”), which are described below, are
    collectively referred to as the “Turner Networks.”
    Premium pay television services consist of the multi-channel HBO
    and Cinemax pay television services (collectively, the
    “Home Box Office Services”) operated by Home Box
    Office, Inc. (“Home Box Office”).


 


    Turner, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, generates
    revenues principally from providing programming to cable system
    operators, satellite distribution services, telephone companies
    and other distributors (known as affiliates) that have
    contracted to receive and distribute this programming and from
    the sale of advertising (other than Turner Classic Movies and
    Boomerang, which sell advertising only in certain international
    markets). Turner’s agreements with its affiliates are
    typically long-term arrangements that provide for annual service
    fee increases and have fee arrangements that are generally
    related to the number of subscribers





    
    1



Table of Contents





    served by the affiliate and the package of programming provided
    to the affiliate by each network. Expirations of affiliate
    agreements are staggered.


 


    Turner’s advertising revenues consist of consumer
    advertising, which is sold primarily on a national basis in the
    U.S. and on a pan-regional or
    local-language
    feed basis outside the U.S. Advertising contracts generally
    have terms of one year or less. Advertising revenues are
    generated from a wide variety of advertising categories,
    including food and beverage, automotive, motion picture,
    restaurants, pharmaceuticals and medical, financial and business
    services, retail, telecommunications, insurance and household
    products. In the U.S., advertising revenues are a function of
    the size and demographics of the audience delivered, the
    “CPM,” which is the cost per thousand viewers
    delivered, and the number of units of time sold. Units sold and
    CPMs are influenced by the quantitative and qualitative
    characteristics of the audience of each network, the perceived
    quality of the network and of the particular programming, as
    well as overall advertiser demand in the marketplace and general
    economic conditions. Outside the U.S., advertising is generally
    not sold based on audience delivery, but rather is sold at a
    fixed rate for the unit of time sold, determined by the time of
    day and network. Turner also operates various websites,
    including CNN.com, NASCAR.com,
    CartoonNetwork.com, SI.com and Golf.com,
    that generate revenues principally from the sale of advertising.


 


    Home Box Office, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company,
    generates revenues principally from providing programming to
    cable, satellite and telephone company affiliates that have
    contracted to receive and distribute such programming to their
    customers who choose to subscribe to the Home Box Office
    Services (“Subscribers”). Home Box Office’s
    agreements with its affiliates are typically long-term
    arrangements that provide for annual service fee increases and
    retail promotion activities and have fees that are generally
    related to the number of Subscribers served by the affiliates.
    Home Box Office and its affiliates engage in marketing and
    promotional activities to retain existing Subscribers and
    acquire new Subscribers. Home Box Office also derives revenues
    from its original films, mini-series and series through the sale
    of DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, as well as from the licensing of
    original programming in syndication and to basic cable channels.


 


    The Company’s Networks business has been pursuing
    international expansion in select areas, and the Company
    anticipates that international expansion will continue to be an
    area of focus at the Networks business for the foreseeable
    future.


 



    Turner
    Networks


 


    Key contributors to Turner’s success are its strong brands
    and continued investments in high-quality popular programming
    focused on sports, original and syndicated series, news, network
    movie premieres and animation to drive audience delivery and
    revenue growth.


 



    Domestic
    Networks


 


    Turner’s networks in the U.S. consist of entertainment
    and news networks. Turner’s entertainment networks include
    TBS, TNT, Cartoon Network, truTV, Turner Classic Movies and
    Boomerang. High Definition (“HD”) feeds of TBS, TNT,
    Cartoon Network, truTV, Turner Classic Movies and CNN are made
    available to affiliates. Programming for these entertainment
    networks is derived, in part, from the Company’s film,
    made-for-television
    and animation libraries to which Turner or other divisions of
    the Company own the copyrights and also includes sports
    programming and other licensed programming, including syndicated
    television series and network movie premieres. Turner’s
    news networks include CNN and HLN. The domestic television
    household numbers (“U.S. television households”)
    provided below are as reported by Nielsen Media Research as of
    December 2010.


 


    TBS reached approximately 101.0 million
    U.S. television households as of December 2010. TBS is
    television’s “very funny” network and shows
    contemporary comedies such as the syndicated
    series Family Guy and The Office and late
    night talk shows Conan and Lopez Tonight. TBS is
    also the home of a growing roster of original series, including
    Tyler Perry’s Meet the Browns, Glory Daze and
    Are We There Yet? for the
    2010-2011
    season. TBS has the right to produce and telecast a certain
    number of Major League Baseball regular season and playoff games
    through the 2013 season. Under an agreement among Turner, CBS
    Broadcasting, Inc. (“CBS”) and The National Collegiate





    
    2



Table of Contents





    Athletic Association (the “NCAA”), starting in 2011
    through 2024, the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball
    Championship tournament games (the “NCAA Tournament
    Games”) will be telecast on Turner’s TBS, TNT and
    truTV networks and on the CBS network. Turner and CBS have
    agreed to work together to produce and distribute the NCAA
    Tournament Games and related programming and sell advertising on
    a joint basis. Further, Turner and CBS have agreed to share
    advertising and sponsorship revenues, the programming rights fee
    and production costs, subject to annual caps on CBS’ share
    of any resulting losses.


 


    TNT reached approximately 100.4 million
    U.S. television households as of December 2010. TNT focuses
    on drama and is home to syndicated series such as Bones,
    Supernatural, Las Vegas, Law &
    Order, CSI: NY, Cold Case and Numb3rs,
    as well as network premiere movies. For the
    2010-2011
    season, TNT’s original series include The Closer,
    Rizzoli & Isles, Men of a Certain Age,
    Leverage, HawthoRNe and Memphis Beat. TNT also
    has the right to produce and telecast a certain number of
    National Basketball Association (“NBA”) regular season
    and playoff games through the
    2015-2016
    season, certain NASCAR Sprint Cup Series races through 2014 and
    certain Professional Golfers’ Association (“PGA”)
    events through 2019. TNT also will telecast certain NCAA
    Tournament Games from 2011 through 2024.


 


    Cartoon Network (together with adult swim, its evening and
    overnight block of programming aimed at young adults) reached
    approximately 99.3 million U.S. television households
    as of December 2010. Cartoon Network offers original and
    syndicated series and movies for youth and families. For the
    2010-2011
    season, Cartoon Network’s original series include Tower
    Prep, Adventure Time, Regular Show, Ben 10: Ultimate Alien, MAD,
    Generator Rex, Destroy Build Destroy, Hole in the
    Wall and Dude, What Would Happen. For the
    2010-2011
    season, adult swim’s original series include Childrens
    Hospital, Robot Chicken, Aqua Teen Hunger Force,
    Venture Brothers, Metalocalypse, Delocated,
    Squidbillies, NTSF:SD:SUV::, Mongo Wrestling Alliance and
    Eagleheart.


 


    truTV reached approximately 92.7 million
    U.S. television households as of December 2010. truTV tells
    real-life stories from a first-person perspective. During the
    daytime, truTV features expert trial coverage under the name IN
    SESSION. For the
    2010-2011
    season, truTV’s original series include The Smoking Gun
    Presents: World’s Dumbest..., Conspiracy Theory with
    Jesse Ventura, It Only Hurts When I Laugh and
    Operation Repo. Starting in 2011 through 2024, truTV also
    will telecast certain NCAA Tournament Games.


 


    Turner Classic Movies is a commercial-free network that presents
    classic films from some of the largest film libraries in the
    world. Turner Classic Movies also offers interviews, original
    documentaries and specials.


 


    Boomerang is a commercial-free network that offers classic
    animated entertainment such as Yogi Bear, Tom &
    Jerry, The Flintstones, Pink Panther and The Jetsons.


 


    CNN, the original cable television news service, reached
    approximately 100.1 million U.S. television households
    as of December 2010. As of December 31, 2010, CNN managed
    47 news bureaus and editorial operations, of which 15 are
    located in the U.S. In the fall of 2010, CNN’s
    programs included American Morning, The Situation Room with
    Wolf Blitzer, John King, USA, Parker Spitzer,
    Larry King Live and Anderson Cooper 360°. Piers
    Morgan Tonight replaced Larry King Live in January
    2011. In 2010, CNN won the George Polk Award for international
    reporting, the Hillman Foundation’s January Sidney Award
    for coverage of the Haiti earthquake devastation, the National
    Headliners Award for journalistic excellence and three Gracie
    Awards from the American Women in Radio & Television.


 


    HLN, the “news and views” service, reached
    approximately 99.8 million U.S. television households
    as of December 2010. In the fall of 2010, HLN’s programs
    included Morning Express with Robin Meade, Issues with
    Jane Velez-Mitchell, Nancy Grace, The Joy Behar
    Show and Showbiz Tonight. A new program featuring
    Dr. Drew Pinsky is scheduled to launch in April 2011.


 



    International
    Networks


 


    Turner’s entertainment and news networks are distributed to
    multiple distribution platforms such as cable and Internet
    Protocol Television (IPTV) systems, satellite platforms, mobile
    operators and broadcasters for delivery to households, hotels
    and other viewers around the world.




    
    3



Table of Contents





    Turner distributes approximately 110 region-specific versions
    and
    local-language
    feeds of Cartoon Network, Boomerang, Turner Classic Movies, TNT,
    truTV and other entertainment networks in approximately 190
    countries around the world. In Latin America, Turner distributes
    Space, Infinito, I-Sat, Fashion TV, HTV and Much Music, which
    air movies and series, documentaries, fashion and lifestyle
    content and music videos. In addition, Turner has the sales
    representation rights to nine networks that are owned by third
    parties and operated principally in Latin America. In India and
    certain other South Asian territories, Turner distributes Pogo,
    an entertainment network for children. Turner India also
    distributes and has sales representation rights to HBO in India
    and the Maldives. In Japan, Turner distributes Mondo TV, an
    entertainment channel geared toward men, and Tabi, an
    entertainment channel focused on travel. Turner also distributes
    WB, an English language entertainment channel in India that
    features movies and television programming, primarily licensed
    from Warner Bros.


 


    CNN International, an English language news network, is
    distributed in more than 190 countries and territories as of the
    end of 2010. CNN International has network feeds in five
    separate regions: Europe/Middle East/Africa, Asia Pacific, South
    Asia, Latin America and North America. HLN is distributed in
    Canada, the Caribbean, parts of Latin America and the Asia
    Pacific region. CNN en Español, a separate Spanish language
    news network, is distributed in Latin America and the U.S.


 


    In a number of regions, Turner has launched
    local-language
    versions of its channels through joint ventures or contractual
    arrangements with local partners. These include CNN Turk, a
    Turkish language
    24-hour news
    network available in Turkey and the Netherlands; TNT Turkey, a
    Turkish language channel distributed in Turkey; CNN Chile, a
    Spanish language
    24-hour news
    network distributed in Chile; CNNj, an
    English-with-Japanese-translation news service in Japan; Cartoon
    Network Korea, a
    local-language
    24-hour
    channel for kids; and BOING, an Italian language
    24-hour kids
    animation network. CNN content is distributed through CNN-IBN, a
    co-branded,
    24-hour,
    English language general news and current affairs channel in
    India.


 


    Turner has been pursuing international expansion in select
    areas. For example, in January 2010, Turner Latin America
    acquired the sales representation rights to the Warner Bros.
    channel in Latin America. In February 2010, Turner acquired a
    majority stake in NDTV Imagine Limited, which owns a Hindi
    general entertainment channel in India. In April 2010, Turner
    launched truTV across several countries in Asia. In August 2010,
    Turner acquired Millennium Media Group, a Sweden-based channel
    operator with niche television channels targeting Scandinavia,
    the Baltics, Benelux and Africa. In October 2010, Turner
    acquired Chilevisión, a television broadcaster in Chile.
    Also in October 2010, Turner launched Cartoon Network in Arabic
    in Saudi Arabia. In recent years, Turner has also expanded its
    presence in Germany, Japan, Korea, Turkey and the United Arab
    Emirates.


 



    Websites
    and Digital Applications and Initiatives


 


    Turner operates various websites that generate revenues
    primarily from the sale of advertising. In 2010, Turner entered
    into an agreement with the NCAA, pursuant to which Turner will
    manage and operate the NCAA’s digital portfolio, including
    NCAA.com, through 2024. Turner will also manage
    advertising sales for NCAA digital platforms. Also in 2010,
    Turner and Time Inc. formed a strategic digital partnership
    between Turner and Sports Illustrated. Under the
    agreement, Turner manages the SI.com and Golf.com
    websites, including selling advertising, product management,
    marketing and business and technical operations for the websites.


 


    CNN has multiple websites, including CNN.com and several
    localized editions that operate in Turner’s international
    markets. CNN also operates CNNMoney.com in partnership
    with Time Inc.’s Money and Fortune magazines
    and CNNMexico.com pursuant to a joint venture with Time
    Inc.’s Grupo Expansión, a leading Mexican consumer
    magazine publisher. Turner operates the NASCAR websites
    NASCAR.com and NASCAR.com en Español under an
    agreement with NASCAR that runs through 2014, and the websites
    of the PGA and PGA Tour, PGA.com and PGATour.com,
    respectively, under an agreement with the PGA that runs through
    2019 and an agreement with the PGA Tour that runs through 2011.
    Effective through the 2015/2016 season, Turner and the NBA
    jointly manage a portfolio of the NBA’s digital businesses,
    including NBA.com. Turner also operates
    CartoonNetwork.com, as well as 61 international websites
    affiliated with the regional children’s services feeds.


 


    Turner also publishes several Apps in Apple Inc.’s iTunes
    App Store and Google Inc.’s Android Market App Store,
    including CNN Mobile, which became available
    internationally in 2010, and the CNN App for iPad and
    truTV Mobile, which were launched in 2010.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    Turner ended 2010 with TV Everywhere versions of its networks
    available to four of its largest affiliates. In 2011, Turner
    intends to continue to partner with affiliates on initiatives to
    allow subscribers to watch Turner’s content on demand and
    on multiple devices.


 



    Home Box
    Office


 


    HBO, operated by Home Box Office, is the nation’s most
    widely distributed premium pay television service. At
    December 31, 2010, Home Box Office had over 81 million
    worldwide subscribers, which consisted of approximately
    39.4 million domestic premium pay subscribers and
    approximately 42.5 million premium pay and basic cable
    subscribers in HBO Central Europe and unconsolidated
    international joint ventures. Both HBO and Cinemax are made
    available in HD on a number of multiplex channels. Home Box
    Office also offers HBO and Cinemax On Demand, subscription
    products that enable Subscribers to view programs at the time
    they choose.


 


    In 2010, Home Box Office continued to expand the on demand
    broadband offerings of HBO and Cinemax by rolling out HBO GO and
    MAX GO with certain affiliates. These offerings provide
    Subscribers with online access to a wide variety of HBO and
    Cinemax content from any U.S. location with a broadband
    connection. Home Box Office expects to launch HBO GO and MAX GO
    with a number of additional affiliates in 2011.


 


    A major portion of the programming on HBO and Cinemax consists
    of recently released, uncut and uncensored theatrical motion
    pictures. Home Box Office’s practice has been to negotiate
    licensing agreements of varying duration with major motion
    picture studios and independent producers and distributors in
    order to ensure continued access to such films. These agreements
    typically grant to Home Box Office the exclusive right to
    exhibit and distribute recently released and certain older films
    owned by the particular studio, producer or distributor on a
    subscription basis (including via broadband networks) in
    exchange for negotiated fees, which may be a function of, among
    other things, the box office performances of the films.


 


    HBO is also defined by its award-winning original dramatic and
    comedy series, such as True Blood, Boardwalk Empire,
    Entourage, and Curb Your Enthusiasm, as well as
    movies, mini-series, boxing matches and sports news programs,
    comedy specials, family programming and documentaries. Among
    other awards, HBO won 4 Golden Globes— the most of any
    network — in 2011 and 25 Primetime Emmys and 9 Sports
    Emmys in 2010. In addition, in 2010, HBO won three Peabody
    Awards, including awards for the series In Treatment
    and the documentary Thrilla in Manila, and an Academy
    Award for the documentary Music by Prudence.


 


    Home Box Office also generates revenues from the exploitation of
    its original programming through multiple distribution outlets.
    HBO Home Entertainment markets a variety of HBO’s original
    programming on DVD and Blu-ray Discs. Home Box Office licenses
    its original series, such as The Sopranos, Sex and the
    City, Entourage and Curb Your Enthusiasm, to
    basic cable channels and has also licensed Entourage and
    Curb Your Enthusiasm in syndication. The Home Box
    Office-produced show Everybody Loves Raymond, which aired
    for nine seasons on broadcast television, is currently in
    syndication as well. Home Box Office content is also distributed
    by Apple Inc., Amazon and Sony PlayStation through their
    respective online stores in the U.S. and various
    international regions, as well as on various mobile telephone
    platforms.


 


    HBO- and Cinemax-branded premium pay and basic cable services
    are distributed in more than 50 countries in Latin America, Asia
    and Central Europe, primarily through various joint ventures. In
    the first quarter of 2010, Home Box Office acquired the
    remainder of its partners’ interests in HBO Central Europe
    and purchased an additional 21% equity interest in HBO Latin
    America Group, consisting of HBO Brasil, HBO Olé and HBO
    Latin America Production Services (collectively, “HBO
    LAG”), bringing its interest in HBO LAG to 80%. In
    addition, Home Box Office expects to acquire an additional 8%
    equity interest in HBO LAG in the first quarter of 2011. In
    recent years, Home Box Office also has acquired additional
    equity interests in HBO Asia, HBO South Asia and HBO LAG.


 



    The
    CW


 


    Launched at the beginning of the Fall 2006 broadcast season, The
    CW broadcast network is a
    50-50 joint
    venture between Warner Bros. and CBS Corporation. The
    CW’s schedule includes, among other things, a 5-night,
    10-hour
    primetime lineup with programming such as Gossip Girl,
    90210, One Tree Hill, America’s Next Top
    Model,





    
    5



Table of Contents





    The Vampire Diaries, Nikita, Hellcats,
    Smallville and Supernatural, as well as a
    five-hour
    block of animated children’s programming on Saturday
    mornings. As of December 31, 2010, The CW was carried
    nationally by affiliated television stations covering 95% of
    U.S. television households. Among the affiliates of The CW
    are 13 stations owned by Tribune Broadcasting and 8 stations
    owned by CBS Corporation.


 



    Central
    Media Enterprises Ltd.


 


    The Company holds an approximately 29.5% interest in Central
    Media Enterprises Ltd., a publicly-traded broadcasting company
    that operates leading networks in six Central and Eastern
    European countries as of December 31, 2010.


 



    Competition


 


    The Networks businesses compete with other television services
    for marketing and distribution by cable, satellite and other
    distribution systems. The Turner Networks and websites compete
    for advertising with other networks and media such as the
    Internet, print, radio and outdoor display. The Networks
    businesses also compete for viewers’ attention and audience
    share with all other forms of programming provided to viewers,
    including broadcast networks, local
    over-the-air
    television stations, other pay and basic cable television
    services, motion pictures, home video products and services
    (including subscription rental and Internet streaming services
    and rental kiosks),
    pay-per-view
    and
    video-on-demand
    services, online activities (including Internet streaming and
    downloading), and other forms of news, information and
    entertainment. In addition, competition for programming,
    particularly licensed and sports programming is intense, and the
    Networks businesses face competition for programming from those
    same commercial television networks, independent stations, and
    pay and basic cable television services.


 


    The production divisions in the Networks businesses compete with
    other production companies for the services of producers,
    directors, writers, actors and others and for the acquisition of
    scripts.


 



    FILMED
    ENTERTAINMENT


 


    The Company’s Filmed Entertainment businesses produce and
    distribute theatrical motion pictures, television shows,
    animation and other programming and videogames; distribute home
    video product; and license rights to the Company’s feature
    films, television programming and characters. All of these
    businesses are principally conducted by various subsidiaries and
    affiliates of Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., a wholly owned
    subsidiary of the Company, that are known collectively as the
    Warner Bros. Entertainment Group (“Warner Bros.”).


 



    Feature
    Films


 



    Warner
    Bros.


 


    Warner Bros. produces feature films both wholly on its own and
    under co-financing arrangements with others, and also
    distributes its films and completed films produced by others.
    Warner Bros.’ feature films are produced under the Warner
    Bros. Pictures, New Line Cinema and Castle Rock banners. The
    terms of Warner Bros.’ agreements with independent
    producers and other entities are separately negotiated and vary
    depending on the production, the amount and type of financing by
    Warner Bros., the media and territories covered, the
    distribution term and other factors.


 


    Warner Bros.’ feature film strategy focuses on offering a
    diverse slate of films with a mix of genres, talent and budgets
    that includes several “event” movies each year and
    building and leveraging franchises, such as Harry Potter,
    Batman and The Lord of the Rings. During 2010,
    Warner Bros. released 23 original motion pictures for theatrical
    exhibition, including Harry Potter and the Deathly Hollows:
    Part 1, Inception, Clash of the Titans,
    Sex and the City 2 and Valentine’s Day. Of
    the original motion pictures for theatrical exhibition released
    during 2010, five were released in 3D, including Clash of the
    Titans and Yogi Bear. During 2009, Warner Bros.
    released 26 original motion pictures for theatrical exhibition,
    including Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, The
    Hangover,





    
    6



Table of Contents





    Sherlock Holmes, The Blind Side and
    Invictus. Warner Bros. released one film in January 2011,
    and currently plans to release 22 additional original motion
    pictures for distribution throughout the year, including
    Harry Potter and the Deathly Hollows: Part 2,
    Green Lantern, Sherlock Holmes 2, Happy Feet 2
    and The Hangover 2. Of the original motion pictures
    expected to be released during 2011, Warner Bros. expects to
    release seven in 3D, including Harry Potter and the Deathly
    Hollows: Part 2, Green Lantern and Happy Feet
    2. Release dates for Warner Bros.’ theatrical films are
    determined by a number of factors, including competition and the
    timing of vacation and holiday periods. Films released
    theatrically in the U.S. can be released in international
    territories either
    day-and-date
    with the domestic release or according to a staggered release
    schedule.


 


    Warner Bros. incurs significant production, marketing,
    advertising and distribution costs in connection with the
    theatrical release of a film. As a result, Warner Bros.
    typically incurs losses with respect to a particular film prior
    to and during a film’s theatrical exhibition, and a
    particular film may not produce profit until well after the
    film’s theatrical release. In response to the high cost of
    producing theatrical films, Warner Bros. has entered into
    certain film co-financing arrangements with other companies,
    decreasing its financial risk while in most cases retaining
    substantially all worldwide distribution rights. Of the total
    2010 releases, eight were wholly financed by Warner Bros. and 15
    were financed with or by others. Warner Bros. has co-financing
    arrangements with Village Roadshow Pictures and Legendary
    Pictures, LLC. Additionally, Warner Bros. has an exclusive
    distribution arrangement with Alcon Entertainment for
    distribution of all of Alcon’s motion pictures in domestic
    and certain international territories. Warner Bros. also has an
    exclusive distribution arrangement with Dark Castle Holdings,
    LLC for films produced on or before September 30, 2012,
    under which Warner Bros. has agreed to distribute up to 15 Dark
    Castle feature films throughout the U.S. and, generally, in
    all international territories.


 


    Warner Bros. also distributes feature films acquired or produced
    for theatrical exhibition in more than 125 international
    territories. In 2010, Warner Bros. released 17 such
    English-language
    and 27 such
    local-language
    films.


 


    After their theatrical exhibition, Warner Bros. licenses its
    newly produced films, as well as films from its library, for
    distribution in various windows on broadcast, cable, satellite
    and pay television channels both domestically and
    internationally, including cable and pay television channels
    affiliated with the Company, and it also distributes its films
    on DVD and Blu-ray Discs and in digital versions. Each of these
    windows is discussed in more detail below.


 


    Newly produced films are released in the home entertainment
    window approximately three to six months following their release
    to theatrical exhibition, with the actual release date being
    influenced by seasonality, competitive conditions, film
    attributes and expected performance. In the U.S. and most
    major international markets, Warner Bros. generally releases all
    films simultaneously for DVD and Blu-ray Disc sales, rental
    through brick and mortar retailers, video on demand
    (“VOD”) and electronic sell-through (“EST”).
    Beginning in 2010, Warner Bros. began releasing newly produced
    films to subscription services and discount kiosks 28 days
    following their release to other home entertainment services.
    Approximately one year after their theatrical exhibition, Warner
    Bros. licenses its newly produced films, as well as films from
    its library, for distribution in various windows on pay and free
    television channels delivered by cable, satellite and other
    multi-channel video programming distributors both domestically
    and internationally, including the Company’s networks and
    premium pay television services.


 


    Warner Bros. has an extensive film library consisting of rights
    to over 6,000 films previously released by Warner Bros. and
    other studios.


 



    Television


 


    Warner Bros. Television Group (“WBTVG”) is one of the
    world’s leading suppliers of television programming,
    distributing programming in the U.S. as well as in more
    than 220 international territories and in more than
    145 languages. WBTVG both develops and produces new
    television series, reality-based entertainment shows and
    animation programs for the Company’s networks and third
    parties. WBTVG licenses such programming for initial telecast
    and
    off-network
    exhibition, VOD and EST. During 2010, the cable
    off-network
    rights became available for Two and a Half Men. During
    2010, WBTVG also renewed licenses with local broadcasters for
    Two and a Half Men, and WBTVG licensed the cable and
    local
    off-network
    rights for The Big Bang Theory (available in
    2011) and the





    
    7



Table of Contents





    off-network
    cable rights for The Closer. WBTVG also licenses
    programming from the Warner Bros. library for exhibition on
    various media in the U.S. and internationally. Warner Bros.
    International Television Distribution Inc. is forming an
    international group of local television production companies in
    major territories with a focus on non-scripted programs and
    formats that can be sold internationally and adapted for sale in
    the U.S. As part of this initiative, Warner Bros. acquired
    an approximate 55% interest in Shed Media plc, a leading
    television producer in the U.K., in October 2010.


 


    WBTVG programming is primarily produced by Warner Bros.
    Television (“WBTV”), a division of WB Studio
    Enterprises Inc. that produces primetime dramatic and comedy
    programming for the broadcast networks and for cable networks,
    including the Company’s networks; Warner Horizon Television
    Inc. (“Warner Horizon”), which specializes in
    unscripted programming for broadcast networks as well as
    scripted and unscripted programming for cable networks; and
    Telepictures Productions Inc. (“Telepictures”), which
    specializes in reality-based and talk/variety series for the
    syndication and daytime markets. For the
    2010-11
    season, WBTV is producing, among others, Nikita and
    Gossip Girl for The CW and Two and a Half Men,
    The Big Bang Theory, The Mentalist,
    Mike & Molly, Fringe, Chuck and
    The Middle for other broadcast networks. WBTV also
    produces original series for cable networks, including The
    Closer for TNT. Warner Horizon produces the primetime
    reality series The Bachelor and other original
    series for cable networks, including Rizzoli &
    Isles for TNT and Pretty Little Liars. Telepictures
    produces first-run syndication shows such as Extra, The Ellen
    DeGeneres Show, TMZ and Lopez Tonight for TBS.


 


    Warner Bros. Animation Inc. (“WBAI”) creates, develops
    and produces contemporary animated television programming and
    original
    made-for-DVD
    releases, including Batman: The Brave & The
    Bold and Young Justice for Cartoon Network and the
    Scooby-Doo series. WBAI also oversees the creative use
    of, and production of animated programming based on, classic
    animated characters from Warner Bros., including Looney
    Tunes, and from the Hanna-Barbera and DC Comics libraries.


 


    Warner Bros.’ television library consists of rights to many
    television series, reality-based entertainment shows, animation
    programs and
    made-for-television
    movies.


 



    Home
    Entertainment


 


    Warner Home Video (“WHV”), a division of Warner Bros.
    Home Entertainment Inc. (“WBHE”), distributes DVDs and
    Blu-ray Discs containing filmed entertainment product and
    television programming produced or otherwise acquired by the
    Company’s various content-producing subsidiaries and
    divisions, including Warner Bros. Pictures, Warner Bros.
    Television, New Line Cinema, Home Box Office and Turner.
    Significant WHV releases during 2010 of filmed entertainment
    product included The Blind Side, Inception,
    Sherlock Holmes, Clash of the Titans, Sex and
    the City 2, and The Book of Eli. Significant WHV
    releases during 2009 of filmed entertainment product included
    Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, The Hangover
    and Gran Torino. WHV also distributes DVDs and
    Blu-ray Discs from Warner Bros.’ extensive library. In
    addition, WHV distributes other companies’ product,
    including DVDs and Blu-ray Discs for BBC, Sesame Street and
    national sports leagues in the U.S., and has similar
    distribution relationships with content producers outside the
    U.S.


 


    WHV sells and licenses DVD and Blu-ray Disc product for resale
    in the U.S. and in major international territories to
    retailers and wholesalers through its own sales force, with
    warehousing and fulfillment handled by third parties. In some
    countries, WHV’s product is distributed through licensees.
    DVD and Blu-ray Disc product is replicated by third parties
    under contract with WHV
    and/or its
    affiliates in applicable territories. The replication of DVD and
    Blu-ray Disc product for the U.S., Canada, Europe and Mexico is
    provided under long-term contracts with two manufacturers, and
    the replication of DVD and Blu-ray Disc product for Japan is
    provided under a long-term contract with one manufacturer.


 


    Warner Premiere, a division of Warner Specialty Films Inc.,
    develops and produces feature films and short-form content for
    home entertainment platforms, including DVD, Blu-ray Disc, VOD
    and EST. Warner Premiere produced 10
    direct-to-home-entertainment
    movies in 2010, including Scooby Doo: Curse of the Lake
    Monster. In addition, in 2010, Warner Premiere Digital
    produced two short form series for debut on broadband platforms:
    Jonah Hex Motion Comics, a series of animated stories
    based on the classic Jonah Hex comics, and Aim
    High, a live-action science fiction series.




    
    8



Table of Contents






    Interactive
    Videogames


 


    Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment (“WBIE”), a
    division of WBHE, develops, publishes and licenses interactive
    videogames for a variety of platforms based on Warner Bros. and
    DC Comics properties, as well as original game properties. In
    2010, WBIE continued to expand its games publishing business
    through acquisitions, including the acquisition of Turbine Inc.,
    the developer of The Lord of the Rings Online, and a
    majority stake in Rocksteady Studios, the developer of
    Batman: Arkham Asylum, as well as increasing its
    development capabilities, entering into new videogame
    distribution agreements and further leveraging WBHE’s
    global distribution infrastructure. Significant releases in 2010
    included LEGO Harry Potter: Years 1 — 4, The
    Lord of the Rings: Aragorn’s Quest, and Super
    Scribblenauts. WBIE has entered into an agreement for the
    co-financing of certain of its interactive videogames with
    Imagenation Abu Dhabi, a subsidiary of Abu Dhabi Media Company.


 



    Digital
    Media


 


    Warner Bros. Digital Distribution (“WBDD”), a division
    of WBHE, enters into domestic and international licensing
    arrangements for distribution of Warner Bros.’ film and
    television content as well as acquired content through VOD and
    EST transactions via cable, IPTV systems, satellite and online
    services for delivery to consumers worldwide. WBDD licenses film
    and television content for both VOD and EST to affiliates such
    as Comcast, Time Warner Cable, DirecTV, DISH Network and
    Verizon, as well as broadband customers including Apple’s
    iTunes Store, Amazon’s Video on Demand, Microsoft’s
    Xbox 360 and Sony’s Playstation 3. WBDD has also licensed
    movies, as well as a slate of catalog television shows,
    including Nip/Tuck and several television series with a
    limited number of episodes, to various subscription on demand
    streaming services. In 2010, WBDD continued its content release
    strategy of making its films available, both domestically and in
    30 international territories, in VOD and EST on the same date as
    their release on DVD and Blu-ray Discs.


 


    WBDD has arrangements with a number of mobile handset and PC
    manufacturers, including Nokia, Samsung and Dell, to pre-load
    films onto their devices to be marketed to consumers. WBDD also
    entered into content licensing deals for online and mobile
    interactive videogames involving DC Comics properties and
    Harry Potter. In addition to its content licensing
    activities, as of December 31, 2010, WBDD had published 12
    Apps in Apple’s iTunes App Store, including Lego Harry
    Potter: Years 1-4; Harry Potter: Spells, Lego
    Batman and Sherlock Holmes Mysteries. In partnership
    with WBIE, WBDD expanded its digital distribution strategy to
    include the online distribution of interactive videogames on
    multiple platforms including PC, Microsoft’s Xbox 360,
    Sony’s Playstation 3, and handheld devices including
    Sony’s PSP device and Apple’s iPhone and iPod Touch.
    WBDD also continued to test delivery of content through digital
    kiosk locations in 2010.


 


    WBDD manages Warner Bros.’
    direct-to-consumer
    retail website, wbshop.com, which includes the Warner
    Archive Collection
    manufacturing-on-demand
    offering, with 786 film titles and television series available
    as of December 31, 2010, many of which were never before
    released on DVD.


 


    WBDD also makes digital copies of movies available to consumers
    who purchase specially marked DVDs and Blu-ray Discs, either by
    entering a code included in the product packaging that allows
    consumers to download a file containing the film or by placing
    an electronic copy of the film directly on the DVD or Blu-ray
    Disc that the consumer can unlock. In 2010, digital copies were
    offered to purchasers of DVDs and Blu-ray Discs on 74 titles in
    the United States, and digital copy offers were also made
    available for certain titles in 50 international territories.


 


    WBTVG’s online destination, TMZ.com is one of the
    leading entertainment news brands in the U.S. across
    online, TV and mobile. WBTVG operates websites for many of its
    syndicated television properties, including The Ellen
    DeGeneres Show and Extra. The destination site
    TheWB.com is an online video site featuring programs from
    the Warner Bros. library and new original production, and its
    KidsWB.com is a casual game and video online destination
    site with a target audience of kids,
    ages 6-12.
    In addition, WBTVG partnered with Time Inc.’s Essence
    Communications Inc. on the launch and operation of the online
    destination Essence.com, which was launched in
    conjunction with Time Inc.’s Essence magazine, a
    leading lifestyle magazine for
    African-American
    women in the U.S. WBTVG’s digital production venture,
    Studio 2.0, creates original programming for worldwide online
    and wireless distribution.




    
    9



Table of Contents





    Many of WBTVG’s current on-air television series are
    available on demand via broadband and wireless streaming and
    downloading and cable on demand platforms under agreements
    entered into with the broadcast and cable networks exhibiting
    the series. Under those agreements, the networks have the right
    to offer each series episode on demand for a limited period of
    time after the episode airs and WBTVG retains the right to offer
    current episodes in EST during the same timeframe, and,
    increasingly, WBTVG has the right to offer online streaming of
    current series episodes at the end of a broadcast year. WBTVG
    also selectively licenses certain off-air or library television
    series for exhibition online in the U.S. to broadcast
    licensees and third party video exhibition sites.
    Internationally, WBTVG has a number of Warner Bros. branded
    on-demand program services, which, as of December 31, 2010,
    included eight services in the U.K., five in each of China and
    Japan, four in Germany, three in France, two in each of Austria
    and Italy, and one in each of the Netherlands, Finland, Canada,
    Greece/Cyprus, Poland, Portugal, Russia, Spain, Sweden,
    Switzerland, Turkey, Korea, Australia and New Zealand. In
    addition, WBTVG operates linear Warner Bros. branded general
    entertainment channels in Latin America and Asia, and supplies
    programming to a linear Warner Bros. branded general
    entertainment channel in India.


 



    Other
    Entertainment Assets


 


    Warner Bros. Consumer Products Inc. licenses rights to
    licensees, manufacturers, publishers, retailers and theme park
    operators in both domestic and international markets to the
    names, likenesses, images, logos and other representations of
    characters and copyrighted material from the films and
    television series produced or distributed by Warner Bros.,
    including the superhero characters of DC Comics, Hanna-Barbera
    characters, classic films and Looney Tunes.


 


    DC Entertainment, which is wholly owned by the Company, is
    responsible for bringing the DC Comics business, brand and
    characters from comics into other content and distribution
    businesses, including feature films, television programming,
    interactive videogames,
    direct-to-consumer
    platforms, and consumer products. DC Comics, also wholly
    owned by the Company, published on average 95 comic books and
    28 graphic novels per month in 2010, featuring such popular
    characters as Superman, Batman, Green Lantern, Wonder Woman
    and The Sandman. DC Entertainment is the operating
    name of E.C. Publications, Inc., which also publishes
    MAD magazine.


 


    Warner Bros. and CBS Corporation each have a 50% interest
    in The CW, a broadcast network launched at the beginning of the
    Fall 2006 broadcast season. For additional information, see
    “Networks,” above.


 


    Warner Bros. International Cinemas Inc. holds interests through
    joint ventures in 67 multi-screen cinema complexes, with over
    550 screens in Japan and the U.S. as of
    December 31, 2010.


 


    In 2007, Warner Bros. entered into a multi-faceted strategic
    alliance with ALDAR Properties PJSC, an Abu Dhabi real estate
    development company, and Abu Dhabi Media Company, a media
    company owned by the Abu Dhabi government. As of
    December 31, 2010, the strategic alliance relates to the
    creation of a theme park branded with Warner Bros. intellectual
    property and an agreement for the co-financing and distribution
    of interactive videogames.


 



    Competition


 


    The production and distribution of theatrical motion pictures,
    television, videogame and animation product are highly
    competitive businesses. These businesses compete with each
    other, as well as with other forms of entertainment, including
    Internet streaming and downloading, websites providing social
    networking and user-generated content, interactive games and
    other online activities, sports, print media, live events and
    radio broadcasts for consumers’ entertainment and leisure
    time and spending. The number and quality of motion pictures,
    home entertainment titles or videogames released in any given
    period may create over-supply in the market and increase
    competition for consumers’ attention, and, in the case of
    the theatrical release of 3D motion pictures, many compete for a
    limited number of available 3D screens. Furthermore, there is
    intense competition in the television industry evidenced by the
    increasing number and variety of networks now available. Despite
    this increasing number of networks, access to primetime and
    syndicated television slots has actually tightened as networks
    and owned and operated stations increasingly source programming
    from content producers aligned with or owned by their parent





    
    10



Table of Contents





    companies. There is active competition among all production
    companies in these industries for the services of producers,
    directors, writers, actors and others and for the acquisition of
    literary properties. With respect to the distribution of
    television product, there is significant competition from
    independent distributors as well as major studios. The
    competitive position of a producer or distributor of theatrical
    motion pictures, television, videogame and animation product is
    also greatly affected by the quality of, and public response to,
    the entertainment product it makes available to the marketplace.


 


    Warner Bros. also competes in its character merchandising and
    other licensing activities with other licensors of characters,
    brands and celebrity names.


 



    PUBLISHING


 


    The Company’s publishing business is conducted primarily by
    Time Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Time Inc.
    is the largest magazine publisher in the U.S. based on
    advertising revenues, as measured by Publishers Information
    Bureau (“PIB”). In addition to publishing magazines,
    Time Inc. also operates or has editorial responsibility for a
    number of websites, as well as certain direct-marketing and
    marketing services businesses.


 



    Publishing


 


    As of December 31, 2010, Time Inc. published 22 magazines
    in the U.S., including People, Sports Illustrated,
    Time, InStyle, Real Simple, Southern
    Living, Entertainment Weekly and Fortune, and
    over 70 magazines outside the U.S., primarily through IPC Media
    (“IPC”) in the U.K. and Grupo Expansión
    (“GEX”) in Mexico. In addition, Time Inc. operates or
    has editorial responsibility for over 45 magazine websites, such
    as CNNMoney.com, People.com, and Time.com,
    that collectively had average monthly unique visitors of over
    50 million in the U.S., the U.K., Mexico and other
    countries during the fourth quarter of 2010, according to
    comScore Media Metrix. Time Inc. also publishes magazine content
    on digital devices. As of December 31, 2010, individual
    issues of People, Sports Illustrated, Time
    and Fortune were available through Apple’s
    iTunes App Store for download on the iPad.


 


    Until recently, Time Inc.’s U.S. magazines and
    companion websites were organized into three business units,
    each under a single management team: Style and Entertainment,
    News and Lifestyle. This structure has enabled Time Inc. to
    reduce its costs by bringing together under centralized
    management products that have a common appeal in the
    marketplace. In December 2010, Time Inc. split the News unit
    into two separate units, News and Sports, in order to build on
    their strengths, including in the digital and international
    arenas. In addition, across Time Inc.’s four
    U.S. business units, magazine consumer marketing and
    production and distribution activities are generally
    centralized, and subscription fulfillment activities for Time
    Inc.’s U.S. magazines are primarily administered from
    a centralized facility in Tampa, Florida.


 


    In July 2010, Time Inc. and Turner announced the formation of a
    strategic digital partnership between Turner Sports and
    Sports Illustrated. The partnership combines Sports
    Illustrated’s and Golf’s content with
    Turner’s digital media and sales expertise. Under the
    agreement, Turner manages the SI.com and Golf.com
    websites and, since the fourth quarter of 2010, sells all
    advertising for the websites. Accordingly, Turner now receives
    all advertising revenues generated from the websites, and Time
    Inc. receives a license fee from Turner and reimbursement for
    certain website editorial and other costs.


 


    In December 2009, Time Inc., together with four other leading
    publishers, announced the formation of Next Issue Media, an
    independent venture to develop a new digital storefront and
    related technology that will allow consumers to enjoy media
    content on portable digital devices. Next Issue Media’s
    initial digital storefront is expected to launch in 2011.


 


    In 2009, Time Inc. implemented cost-saving initiatives,
    particularly at its News business unit, and executed a
    restructuring initiative, primarily relating to headcount
    reductions, which benefitted Time Inc.’s performance in
    2010. Time Inc. continues on an ongoing basis to look for
    opportunities to implement cost-savings initiatives.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Style
    and Entertainment


 


    People is a weekly magazine that reports on celebrities
    and other newsworthy individuals. People magazine
    generated approximately 20% of Time Inc.’s revenues in
    2010. The People franchise also includes: People
    StyleWatch, a monthly magazine aimed at
    U.S. style-conscious younger readers; People en
    Espaňol, a monthly
    Spanish-language
    magazine aimed primarily at U.S. Hispanic readers;
    People Country, a magazine published six times in 2010,
    aimed at U.S. country music fans; People.com, a
    leading website for celebrity news, photos and entertainment
    coverage; and PeopleEnEspañol.com, a bilingual
    website aimed primarily at the U.S. Hispanic audience.


 


    InStyle, a monthly magazine, and InStyle.com, a
    related website, focus on celebrity, lifestyle, beauty and
    fashion. StyleFeeder, a personal shopping engine, was acquired
    by a subsidiary of Time Inc. in January 2010. Using
    Stylefeeder’s technology, the publishers of InStyle
    launched Stylefind.com, an
    e-commerce
    shopping channel, in November 2010. Time Inc. also publishes
    InStyle in the U.K. through IPC and in Mexico through GEX.


 


    Entertainment Weekly, a weekly magazine, and
    EW.com, a related entertainment news website, feature
    reviews and reports on movies, DVDs, video, television, music
    and books.


 


    Essence Communications Inc. (“ECI”) publishes
    Essence, a leading lifestyle magazine for
    African-American
    women in the U.S., and, with its partner Warner Bros.,
    Essence.com, a related website. ECI and Warner Bros. have
    also expanded the brand’s content into television and home
    entertainment. ECI also produces the annual Essence Music
    Festival.


 



    Lifestyle


 


    Real Simple, a monthly magazine, and
    RealSimple.com, a related website, focus on life, home,
    body and soul and provide practical solutions to make
    women’s lives easier.


 


    Southern Living, a monthly regional magazine, and
    SouthernLiving.com, a related website, focus on
    lifestyles in the southern part of the U.S.


 


    Cooking Light, a monthly epicurean magazine, and
    CookingLight.com, a related website, focus on cooking
    healthy and great tasting meals.


 


    Sunset, a monthly magazine, and Sunset.com, a
    related website, focus on western lifestyle in the U.S.


 


    All You, a monthly magazine, and AllYou.com, a
    related website, focus on lifestyle and service for value
    conscious women.


 


    Health, a monthly magazine for women, and
    Health.com, a related website, focus on information about
    health and wellness.


 


    This Old House, a magazine published 10 times per year,
    and ThisOldHouse.com, a related website, focus on home
    improvement. Through subsidiaries, Time Inc. also produces two
    television series, This Old House and Ask This Old
    House, which focus on home improvement.


 


    Coastal Living, a monthly shelter and lifestyle magazine,
    and CoastalLiving.com, a related website, focus on home
    design and lifestyles in coastal areas of the U.S.


 


    MyRecipes.com, a recipes website, and
    MyHomeIdeas.com, a shelter website, both feature original
    content and content from other Time Inc. Lifestyle brands.


 



    News


 


    Time is a weekly newsmagazine that summarizes the news
    and interprets the week’s events, both national and
    international. Time also has three
    English-language
    weekly editions that circulate outside the
    U.S. TIME.com, a related website, provides breaking
    news and analysis, giving its readers access to its
    24-hour
    global news gathering operation and its vast archive. Time
    for Kids is a weekly current events newsmagazine for
    children ages five to 13.




    
    12



Table of Contents





    Fortune is a magazine published 18 times per year that
    reports on worldwide economic and business developments and
    compiles the annual Fortune 500 list of the largest
    U.S. corporations. Time Inc. also publishes Money, a
    monthly magazine that reports primarily on personal finance.
    Both of these magazines combine their resources on the
    CNNMoney.com website, a leading financial news and
    personal finance website that is operated in partnership with
    CNN.


 


    Life.com is an unconsolidated joint venture between Time
    Inc. and Getty Images, Inc. It is one of the largest collections
    of professional photography online with more than
    10 million photos, a combination of the legendary Life
    magazine archives and Getty’s extensive collection of
    images.


 



    Sports


 


    Sports Illustrated is a weekly magazine that covers
    sports. Sports Illustrated for Kids is a monthly sports
    magazine intended primarily for pre-teenagers. Time Inc. also
    has editorial responsibility for SI.com, a leading sports
    news website that provides
    up-to-the-minute
    scores and sports news 24/7, as well as statistics and analysis
    of domestic and international professional sports and college
    and high school sports.


 


    Golf is a leading monthly golf magazine. Time Inc. also
    has editorial responsibility for Golf.com, a website that
    features user-friendly content designed to help readers play
    their best golf and maximize their golfing experience.


 



    Other
    Publishing Operations


 


    Time Inc. also has responsibility under a management contract
    for the American Express Publishing Corporation’s
    publishing operations, including its travel and epicurean
    magazines Travel & Leisure, Food &
    Wine and Departures and their related websites.


 



    International


 


    IPC, a leading U.K. consumer magazine publisher, publishes
    approximately 55 magazines as well as numerous special issues.
    IPC is organized into three operating divisions, Connect,
    Inspire and SouthBank, which are aligned with its three core
    audience groups of mass-market women, men and upscale women.
    This structure is intended to facilitate the delivery of highly
    targeted audiences to IPC’s advertisers and bring focus and
    efficiency to IPC’s operations. IPC’s magazines
    include (i) in the Connect division, What’s On TV
    and TV Times, television listing magazines,
    Chat, Woman and Woman’s Own, magazines
    focused on women’s lifestyle, and Now, a celebrity
    magazine; (ii) in the Inspire division, Country Life
    and Horse & Hound, magazines focused on
    leisure, and Nuts, a men’s lifestyle magazine; and
    (iii) in the SouthBank division, Woman &
    Home, Ideal Home and Homes &
    Gardens, magazines focused on homes and gardens.


 


    In addition, IPC publishes four magazines through three
    unconsolidated joint ventures with Groupe Marie Claire. IPC
    websites include ShopStyle, a shopping portal on
    instyle.co.uk; video channels on nme.com,
    nuts.co.uk, trustedreviews.com and
    golfmonthly.co.uk, among other websites;
    Mousebreaker.com, a U.K.
    free-to-play
    game site; and goodtoknow.co.uk, an advice website for
    women.


 


    In 2010, IPC sold 20 of its magazines that targeted niche
    audiences.


 


    GEX, a leading Mexican consumer magazine publisher, publishes 13
    magazines in Mexico including: Quién, a celebrity
    and personality magazine; Expansión, a business
    magazine; IDC, a tax and accounting bulletin; InStyle
    Mexico, a fashion and lifestyle magazine for women; and
    Chilango, a Mexico City listing guide. In addition, GEX
    publishes two magazines through an unconsolidated joint venture
    with Hachette Filipacchi Presse S.A. GEX has licensing
    agreements with Mexicana Airlines to publish Vuelo and
    Click Airlines to publish Loop, two in-flight magazines,
    but their publication is on hiatus due to the airlines’
    suspension of operations. GEX also owns and operates
    MedioTiempo.com, a leading sports website in Mexico,
    MetrosCúbicos.com, a leading website for classified
    real estate listings in Mexico, CNNExpansíon.com, a
    leading business website in Mexico, and Quien.com, a
    leading celebrity site. In addition, GEX and Turner formed a
    joint venture to launch CNNMexico.com, a
    Spanish-language
    news site that provides local, national and international news
    from a Mexican perspective, in February 2010.




    
    13



Table of Contents





    Time Inc. licenses approximately 50 editions of its magazines
    for print publication outside the U.S. to publishers in
    over 20 countries. In addition, Time Inc. has been expanding its
    licensing to digital platforms outside the U.S. and has
    licenses in approximately 10 countries.


 



    Advertising


 


    Time Inc. derives approximately half of its revenues from the
    sale of advertising, primarily from its print magazines with a
    smaller amount of advertising revenues from its websites and
    digital magazines for tablets. Advertising carried in Time
    Inc.’s magazines and on its websites is predominantly
    consumer advertising, including toiletries and cosmetics, food,
    drugs, automobiles, financial services and insurance, travel and
    home, media and movies, retail and department stores, computers
    and telecommunications, and apparel and accessories.


 


    In 2010, Time Inc.’s U.S. magazines accounted for
    20.7% (compared to 20.0% in 2009) of the total
    U.S. advertising revenues in consumer magazines, excluding
    newspaper supplements, as measured by PIB. People,
    Sports Illustrated and Time were ranked 1, 3 and
    7, respectively, in terms of PIB-measured advertising revenues
    in 2010, and Time Inc. had six of the top 25 leading magazines
    based on the same measure.


 


    Pursuant to the digital partnership between Turner and Sports
    Illustrated, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, Turner
    receives all advertising revenues generated from the SI.com
    and Golf.com websites, and Time Inc. receives a
    license fee from Turner and reimbursement for certain website
    editorial and other costs.


 



    Circulation


 


    Through the sale of magazines to consumers, circulation
    generates significant revenues for Time Inc. In addition,
    circulation is an important component in determining Time
    Inc.’s print advertising revenues because advertising page
    rates are based on circulation and audience. Most of Time
    Inc.’s U.S. magazines are sold primarily by
    subscription and delivered to subscribers through the mail.
    Subscribers to the print version of People magazine may
    also download the digital version of People through
    Apple’s iTunes App Store for no additional fee.
    Subscriptions are sold primarily through direct mail and online
    solicitation, subscription sales agents, marketing agreements
    with other companies and insert cards in Time Inc. magazines and
    other publications. Most of Time Inc.’s international
    magazines are sold primarily at newsstands.


 


    Time Inc.’s Synapse Group, Inc. (“Synapse”) is a
    leading seller of domestic magazine subscriptions to Time Inc.
    magazines and magazines of other U.S. publishers. Synapse
    sells magazine subscriptions principally through marketing
    relationships with commercial airlines that have frequent flier
    programs, retailers, Internet businesses, consumer catalog
    companies, and credit card issuers.


 


    Time Inc.’s school and youth group fundraising company
    business, QSP, offers fundraising programs that help schools and
    youth groups raise money through the sale of subscriptions to
    Time Inc. magazines and magazines of other publishers, among
    other products.


 


    Newsstand sales of magazines, which are reported as a component
    of Subscription revenues, are sold through traditional
    newsstands as well as other retail outlets such as Wal-Mart,
    supermarkets and convenience and drug stores, and may or may not
    result in repeat purchases. Time/Warner Retail Sales &
    Marketing Inc. distributes and markets copies of Time Inc.
    magazines and books and certain other publishers’ magazines
    and books through third-party wholesalers primarily in the
    U.S. and Canada. Wholesalers, in turn, sell Time Inc.
    magazines and books to retailers. A small number of wholesalers
    are responsible for a substantial portion of Time Inc.’s
    newsstand sales of magazines and books. IPC’s Marketforce
    (U.K.) Limited distributes and markets copies of all IPC
    magazines, some international editions of Time Inc.’s
    U.S. magazines and certain other publishers’ magazines
    outside of the U.S. through third-party wholesalers to
    retail outlets. Individual issues of People, Sports
    Illustrated, Time and Fortune are also sold
    through Apple’s iTunes App Store for download on the iPad.


 



    Paper
    and Printing


 


    Paper constitutes a significant component of physical costs in
    the production of magazines. During 2010, Time Inc. purchased
    over 275,000 tons of paper for magazines and other printed
    products principally from three independent manufacturers.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    Printing and binding for Time Inc. magazines are performed
    primarily by major domestic and international independent
    printing concerns in multiple locations in the U.S. and in
    other countries. Magazine printing contracts are typically
    fixed-term at fixed prices with, in some cases, adjustments
    based on inflation.


 



    Marketing
    Services


 


    Through subsidiaries, Time Inc. conducts marketing services
    businesses. The marketing services include providing customer
    relationship marketing programs, custom client publications and
    other platforms that enable clients to create and sustain
    profitable relationships with their customers. The marketing
    services also include advertising services for magazines that
    are customized, on multiple platforms, and targeted based on
    demographics and geography.


 



    Direct-Marketing
    and Books


 


    Through subsidiaries, Time Inc. conducts direct-marketing
    businesses as well as certain niche book publishing. In addition
    to magazine subscription fundraising programs, QSP offers
    fundraising programs that help schools and youth groups to raise
    money through the sale of chocolate, cookie dough and other
    products. Time Inc.’s book publishing business consists of
    Time Home Entertainment Inc. and Oxmoor House Inc., which
    publish how-to, lifestyle and special commemorative books and
    books on other topics through retail and direct mail channels
    under TIME books, LIFE books, Oxmoor House, Sunset and other
    imprints.


 


    In 2009, Time Inc. sold Southern Living At Home, its direct
    selling division that sold home décor products through
    independent consultants.


 



    Postal
    Rates


 


    Postal costs represent a significant operating expense for Time
    Inc.’s magazine publishing and direct-marketing activities.
    In 2010, Time Inc. spent over $250 million for services
    provided by the U.S. Postal Service. The U.S. Postal
    Service did not increase postal rates in 2010 for services used
    by Time Inc., but is expected to increase such rates in 2011.
    Time Inc. does not expect to directly pass on any increased
    costs due to postal rate increases to magazine subscribers. Time
    Inc. strives to minimize postal expense through the use of
    certain cost-saving activities with respect to address quality,
    mail preparation and delivery of products to postal facilities.


 



    Competition


 


    Time Inc. faces significant competition from several direct
    competitors and other media, including the Internet. Time
    Inc.’s magazine and website operations compete with
    numerous other magazine and website publishers and other media
    for circulation and audience and for advertising directed at the
    general public and at more focused demographic groups. The
    publishing business presents few barriers to entry and many new
    magazines and websites are launched annually. Time Inc. has also
    recently begun creating digital versions of its magazines,
    primarily targeting consumers reading on mobile digital devices
    such as tablets. The use of these digital devices as
    distribution platforms for magazine products may lower the
    barriers to entry for launching digital magazine products that
    could compete with Time Inc.’s businesses.


 


    Competition for magazine and website advertising revenues is
    primarily based on advertising rates, the nature and size of the
    audience (including the circulation and readership of magazines
    and the number of unique visitors to and page views on
    websites), audience response to advertisers’ products and
    services and the effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive
    factors in publishing include product positioning, editorial
    quality, price and customer service, which impact audience,
    circulation revenue and advertising revenue. New digital
    platforms for publishing may impact the way in which Time Inc.
    competes for consumers with other forms of media. In addition,
    competition for magazine advertising revenue has intensified in
    recent years due to challenging economic conditions and the
    increasing shift in advertising dollars from traditional print
    to digital media.




    
    15



Table of Contents





    Time Inc.’s marketing services businesses and
    direct-marketing businesses compete with other marketing
    services businesses and direct-marketing businesses through all
    media, including the Internet.


 



    INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY


 


    Time Warner is one of the world’s leading creators, owners
    and distributors of intellectual property. The Company’s
    vast intellectual property assets include copyrights in motion
    pictures, television programs, magazines, software and books;
    trademarks in names, logos and characters; patents or patent
    applications for inventions related to its products and
    services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of
    various kinds. The Company derives value from these assets
    through a range of business models, including the theatrical
    release of films, the licensing of its films and television
    programming to multiple domestic and international television
    and cable networks, pay television services, VOD and streaming,
    the sale of products such as DVDs, Blu-ray Discs, magazines and
    videogames and the operation of websites. It also derives
    revenues related to its intellectual property through
    advertising in its magazines, networks and online properties and
    from various types of licensing activities, including licensing
    of its trademarks and characters. To protect these assets, the
    Company relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair
    competition, patent and trade secret laws and contract
    provisions. The duration of the protection afforded to the
    Company’s intellectual property depends on the type of
    property in question and the laws and regulations of the
    relevant jurisdiction.


 


    The Company vigorously pursues all appropriate avenues of
    protection for its intellectual property. However, there can be
    no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be
    successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the
    Company’s intellectual property is often difficult and
    costly and the steps taken may not in every case prevent
    misappropriation. Piracy, particularly in the digital
    environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from
    products and services based on intellectual property. The
    Company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of
    approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives,
    applying technical protection measures, pursuing legal sanctions
    for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives,
    and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of
    intellectual property. The Company works with various
    cross-industry groups and trade associations, as well as with
    strategic partners to develop and implement technological
    solutions to control digital piracy.


 


    Third parties may bring intellectual property infringement
    claims or challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s
    intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges
    could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property
    rights. In addition, domestic and international laws, statutes
    and regulations are constantly changing, and the Company’s
    assets may be either adversely or beneficially affected by such
    changes. Moreover, intellectual property protections may be
    insufficient or insufficiently enforced in certain foreign
    territories. The Company therefore generally engages in efforts
    to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around
    the world, including efforts to ensure effective and
    appropriately tailored remedies for infringement.


 



    REGULATORY
    MATTERS


 


    The Company’s businesses are subject to and affected by
    laws and regulations of U.S. federal, state and local
    governmental authorities, and the Company’s international
    operations are subject to laws and regulations of local
    countries and international bodies such as the European Union.
    The Company’s U.S. cable networks and original
    programming businesses are subject to regulation by the Federal
    Communications Commission (the “FCC”). The
    Company’s U.S. magazine subscription and other direct
    marketing activities are subject to regulation by the Federal
    Trade Commission (the “FTC”). The laws, regulations,
    rules, policies and procedures affecting the Company’s
    businesses are subject to change. The following descriptions of
    significant federal, state, local and international laws and
    regulations and current regulatory agency inquiries and
    rulemaking proceedings should be read in conjunction with the
    texts of the respective laws, regulations, inquiries and
    rulemaking proceedings.


 



    Network
    Regulation


 


    Under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and its
    implementing regulations, U.S. cable networks are subject
    to certain direct and, through their distribution partners,
    indirect obligations that, among other things,





    
    16



Table of Contents





    require closed captioning of programming for the hearing
    impaired, limit the amount and content of commercial matter that
    may be shown during programming aimed primarily at an audience
    of children 12 and under, and require the identification of (or
    the maintenance of lists of) sponsors of political advertising.
    Various other federal laws also contain provisions that place
    restrictions on violent and sexually explicit programming and
    provisions relating to the voluntary promulgation of ratings by
    the industry.


 


    In December 2010, the FCC adopted “net neutrality”
    rules requiring Internet service providers (“ISPs”) to
    follow certain principles with respect to broadband Internet
    access service provided to consumers. These principles, with
    certain exceptions (particularly for wireless ISPs), prohibit
    ISPs from blocking lawful content, applications, services, or
    non-harmful devices, and also prohibit unreasonable
    discrimination in the transmission of lawful network traffic.
    The FCC has indicated that agreements between an ISP and a third
    party to favor some network traffic over other network traffic
    in the Internet access service connection to a subscriber (i.e.,
    “pay for priority”) may constitute unreasonable
    discrimination. It is not clear what impact these regulations
    will have on the increasing use of the Internet to deliver and
    receive video content. Lawsuits challenging the FCC’s
    authority to adopt these rules have been filed, and additional
    lawsuits are expected to be filed.


 


    From time to time, the FCC and other federal agencies conduct
    inquiries and rulemaking proceedings, including the following,
    which could lead to additional regulations that could have a
    material effect on the Company and its businesses:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    Smart Video Devices:  The FCC initiated an
    inquiry in April 2010 to study potential options to spur
    development of smart video devices that are compatible with all
    multichannel video programming distributor (“MVPD”)
    services and that would be available for consumers to purchase
    in retail outlets. Under one proposed option, MVPD services
    would be sent to a universal adapter in a consumer’s home.
    The adaptor would enable the consumer to view the content from
    the MVPD service on a connected smart video device, such as a
    television or portable device. The FCC is expected to initiate a
    rulemaking proceeding in this area in 2011.








     
        •    

    
    Bundling and Carriage Agreements:  In October
    2007, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding to examine the
    use of bundling practices in carriage agreements for both
    broadcast and satellite cable programming. As of
    February 15, 2011, it is unclear what, if any, action the
    FCC will take in this matter.








     
        •    

    
    Children’s Media: In 2009, the FCC initiated an
    inquiry to broadly survey the state of children’s media
    across multiple platforms and seek comment on existing ratings,
    advertising, and media literacy efforts. As of February 15,
    2011, it is unclear what, if any, action the FCC will take in
    this matter. The FTC is also studying food and beverage
    marketing to children, and an interagency task force is expected
    to seek comment in 2011 on a proposed voluntary nutrition
    standard for marketing aimed at children 2-17 years old.








     
        •    

    
    Disability Access:  The FCC is expected to
    initiate several rulemaking proceedings in 2011 to implement the
    21st Century

    Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010. This law
    extends closed captioning requirements to television programming
    distributed via the Internet after it is initially aired on a
    broadcast or cable network and reinstitutes the FCC’s video
    description rules for the sight impaired for the top five cable
    networks with more than 50 hours of non-exempt programming
    per quarter, which may include one or more of the Company’s
    U.S. cable networks. The FCC is also considering changes to
    its closed captioning rules, including the adoption of quality
    standards and either eliminating or changing existing exemptions
    to such rules.





 


    In addition, in international territories in which the
    Company’s Networks businesses operate, laws and regulations
    have been instituted or proposed that, among other things, place
    limitations on the amount of advertising cable networks are
    entitled to air, impose local content quotas, require
    closed-captioning of programming, limit the kind and nature of
    advertising aimed at children, require operators of pay
    television packages to include a specified number of local
    channels based on the number of international channels that are
    carried by the operator and expand laws and regulations
    regarding content delivered via the Internet.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    Marketing
    Regulation


 


    Time Inc.’s U.S. magazine subscription and direct
    marketing activities, as well as marketing activities by other
    divisions of the Company, are subject to regulation by the FTC
    and each of the states under general consumer protection
    statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices.
    Certain areas of marketing activity are also subject to specific
    federal statutes and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer
    Protection Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection
    Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy)
    and the FTC Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule. Other
    statutes and rules also regulate conduct in areas such as
    privacy, data security, product safety and telemarketing. Time
    Inc. regularly receives and resolves routine inquiries from
    state Attorneys General and is subject to agreements with state
    Attorneys General addressing some of Time Inc.’s marketing
    activities.


 


    In connection with their international activities, Time Inc. and
    the Company’s other divisions are subject to local laws and
    regulations relating to data privacy and electronic marketing,
    especially across Europe and the Asia Pacific region. In the
    European Union, these local laws and regulations include the
    European Data Protection Directive and the European Directive on
    Privacy and Electronic Communications. In addition, a
    combination of codes, directives, regulations and legislation
    covering consumer protection, electronic commerce and
    audiovisual media regulate the Company’s conduct of
    marketing and advertising activities in numerous individual
    territories internationally.


 



    FINANCIAL
    INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND
    BACKLOG


 


    Financial and other information by segment and revenues by
    geographic area for each year in the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2010 is set forth in Note 15 to the
    Company’s consolidated financial statements, “Segment
    Information.” Information with respect to the
    Company’s backlog, representing future revenue not yet
    recorded from cash contracts for the licensing of theatrical and
    television product, at December 31, 2010 and
    December 31, 2009, is set forth in Note 16 to the
    Company’s consolidated financial statements,
    “Commitments and Contingencies —
    Commitments — Programming Licensing Backlog.”







 




    
    



    
    Item 1A. 

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY


 


    The Company must respond to recent and future changes in
    technology, services, standards and consumer behavior to remain
    competitive and continue to increase its
    revenues. Technology, particularly digital
    technology used in the entertainment and media industry,
    continues to evolve rapidly, and advances in that technology
    have led to alternative methods for the distribution, storage
    and consumption of digital content. These technological changes
    have driven and reinforced changes in consumer behavior as
    consumers increasingly seek control over when, where and how
    they consume content digitally. For example, consumer electronic
    innovations have enabled consumers to view Internet-delivered
    content, including films, television programming and magazines,
    on televisions, computers, tablets, phones and other portable
    electronic devices. These changes in technology and consumer
    behavior have resulted in a number of challenges and risks for
    content owners and aggregators, such as the Company. For
    example, the growing number of content aggregators increases
    competition for programming and consumers’ leisure and
    entertainment time and discretionary spending, and the increased
    availability of programming online from content aggregators may
    diminish the perceived value of such programming in other
    distribution windows and negatively affect consumers’
    decisions to purchase such programming. The Company’s
    failure to adapt to emerging technologies and changes in
    consumer behavior could have a significant adverse effect on the
    Company’s competitive position and its businesses and
    results of operations.


 


    Technological developments also pose other challenges for the
    Company that could adversely affect its revenues and competitive
    position. For example, the Company may not have the right, or be
    able to secure the right, to distribute content it licenses from
    others digitally or across new delivery platforms or devices
    that are developed. Furthermore, advances in technology or
    changes in competitors’ product and service offerings may
    require the Company to make additional research and development
    expenditures or offer products or services in a digital format





    
    18



Table of Contents





    without charge or at a lower price than offered in other
    formats. New technology or business initiatives supported by the
    Company may not be embraced by consumers or advertisers, and
    therefore may not develop into profitable business models, which
    could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s
    competitive position and its businesses and results of
    operations. In addition, new delivery platforms could lead to
    the loss of distribution control and the loss of direct
    relationships with consumers.


 


    The Company faces risks relating to competition for the
    leisure and entertainment time and discretionary spending of
    consumers, which has intensified in part due to advances in
    technology and changes in consumer behavior. The
    Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating to
    increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time
    and discretionary spending of consumers. The Company’s
    businesses compete with each other and all other sources of
    entertainment, news and other information, including broadcast
    television, films, the Internet, home video products,
    interactive videogames, social networking, sports, print media,
    live events and radio broadcasts, for consumers’ leisure
    and entertainment time and discretionary spending. Technological
    advancements, such as tablets and other portable electronic
    devices,
    video-on-demand,
    new video formats and Internet streaming and downloading, have
    increased the number of media and entertainment choices
    available to consumers and intensified the challenges posed by
    audience fragmentation. The increasing number of leisure and
    entertainment choices available to consumers, including low-cost
    or free choices, could negatively affect consumer demand for the
    Company’s products and services, the prices content
    aggregators are willing to pay to license the Company’s
    content and advertisers’ willingness to purchase
    advertising from the Company’s businesses, which could
    reduce the Company’s revenues and could also result in the
    Company incurring additional marketing expenses.


 


    The popularity of the Company’s content is difficult
    to predict and could lead to fluctuations in the Company’s
    revenues, and low public acceptance of the Company’s
    content may adversely affect its results of
    operations. The production and distribution of
    television programming, films, interactive videogames, magazines
    and other content are inherently risky businesses, largely
    because the revenues derived from the production, distribution
    and licensing of such content depend primarily on its acceptance
    by the public, which is difficult to predict. As more cable
    networks and premium pay television services produce and acquire
    more original programming, the Networks segment faces increasing
    pressure to produce and acquire more new compelling programming.
    With the scheduled theatrical release of the final Harry Potter
    film in 2011, the Filmed Entertainment segment faces increasing
    pressure to develop new franchises or extend current franchises.
    Public acceptance of new original television programming and new
    theatrical films and interactive videogames is particularly
    difficult to predict, which heightens the risks associated with
    such content. The public acceptance of the Company’s
    content depends on many factors, only some of which are within
    the Company’s control. Examples include the quality and
    acceptance of competing content, including locally produced
    content, available or released at or near the same time, the
    availability of alternative forms of leisure and entertainment
    time activities, the adequacy of efforts to limit piracy, the
    Company’s ability to develop strong brand awareness and
    target key audience demographics, the Company’s ability to
    anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and behavior
    on a timely basis and general economic conditions. If the
    Company is not able to create and distribute content, products
    and services that earn consumer acceptance, the Company’s
    revenues and its results of operations could be adversely
    affected.


 


    The popularity of the Company’s content is reflected in
    (1) the theatrical performance of the Filmed Entertainment
    segment’s films, (2) the ratings for the television
    programming produced by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the
    syndicated, licensed and original programming of the Networks
    segment, (3) the Publishing segment’s magazine
    circulation and (4) the number of unique visitors to the
    Company’s many websites. Historically, there has been a
    correlation between a theatrical film’s domestic box office
    success and international box office success, as well as a
    correlation between box office success and success in subsequent
    distribution channels. Consequently, the underperformance of a
    film, particularly an “event” film (which typically
    has high production and marketing costs) or a film that is part
    of a franchise, can have an adverse impact on the Company’s
    results of operations in both the year of release and in the
    future. A film’s underperformance may also adversely affect
    revenues from other distribution channels, such as home
    entertainment and pay television services, and sales of
    interactive videogames and licensed consumer products based on
    such film. In addition, due to the decline in the sales of DVDs,
    the success of a theatrical film is much more dependent on
    public acceptance at the box office. A decline in the ratings or
    audience delivery of the television programming produced by the
    Filmed





    
    19



Table of Contents





    Entertainment segment or shown by Turner can negatively affect
    license fees, syndication results, advertising demand and rates,
    affiliate fees and a network’s distribution potential. For
    Home Box Office, a decline in the popularity of its television
    programming can negatively affect license fees, syndication
    results, affiliate fees and the distribution potential of its
    premium pay television services. For the Publishing segment, a
    decrease in magazine circulation or the number of unique
    visitors for its websites can lead to lower advertising demand
    and rates.


 


    The Company’s businesses operate in highly
    competitive industries. The businesses in the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments face intense
    competition from many different sources, and the ability of
    these businesses to compete successfully depends on many
    factors, including their ability to provide high-quality,
    popular content, adapt to new technologies and distribution
    platforms, respond to changes in consumer behavior and achieve
    widespread distribution. Consolidation in the U.S. and
    international entertainment and media industry also has resulted
    in increased competition for the Company. In addition, the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments’ competitors
    include industry participants with interests in other multiple
    media businesses that are vertically integrated.


 


    The Publishing segment faces significant competition from
    several direct competitors and other media, including the
    Internet. Moreover, additional competitors may enter the digital
    publishing business and further intensify competition, which
    could have an adverse impact on the segment’s revenues.


 


    There can be no assurance that the Company and its businesses
    will be able to compete successfully in the future against
    existing or potential competitors. The failure to compete
    successfully may have an adverse effect on the Company’s
    businesses or results of operations.


 


    The Company has been in the recent past, and may continue
    to be, adversely affected by weak economic and market
    conditions. The Company’s businesses have
    been, and in the future will continue to be, affected by
    economic and market conditions, including factors such as the
    rate of unemployment, the level of consumer confidence, changes
    in consumer spending habits, and interest rates. Because many of
    the Company’s products and services are largely
    discretionary items, the deterioration of the economy in the
    U.S. or key international markets could diminish demand for
    the Company’s products and services and adversely affect
    the Company’s subscription and content revenues. In
    addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical,
    reflecting general economic conditions. The deterioration of
    these conditions could adversely affect the Company’s
    revenues since the Networks and Publishing segments derive a
    substantial portion of their revenues from the sale of
    advertising on a variety of platforms. Although the print
    advertising market has improved in 2010, there continues to be a
    risk that the print advertising market will not continue to
    improve, or it may take several years for any further
    improvement to occur. Declines in consumer spending due to weak
    economic conditions could also indirectly impact the
    Company’s advertising revenues by causing downward pricing
    pressure on advertising because advertisers may not perceive as
    much value from advertising if consumers are purchasing fewer of
    their products or services.


 


    The Company derives a significant portion of its advertising
    revenues from companies in certain sectors of the economy,
    including food and beverage, financial/business services and
    insurance, automotive, motion picture, pharmaceuticals and
    medical, apparel, fashion and retail, toiletries and cosmetics,
    telecommunications, and household products and travel. Any
    economic, political, social, technological or legal or
    regulatory change (including change due to pressure from public
    interest groups) resulting in a significant reduction in the
    advertising spending of these sectors could further adversely
    affect the Company’s advertising revenues or its ability to
    maintain or increase such revenues.


 


    The Company also faces risks associated with the impact of
    economic and market conditions on third parties, such as
    advertisers, suppliers, retailers, insurers and other parties
    with which it does business. If these parties file for
    reorganization under bankruptcy laws or otherwise experience
    negative effects on their businesses due to the market and
    economic conditions, it could reduce the number of outlets for
    the Company’s DVD, Blu-ray Disc and magazine products and
    otherwise negatively affect the Company’s businesses or
    operating results.


 


    The Company faces risks relating to doing business
    internationally that could adversely affect its businesses and
    operating results. The Company’s businesses
    operate and serve customers worldwide. There are risks inherent
    in doing business internationally, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    economic volatility;








     
        •    

    
    inflationary pressures;







    
    20



Table of Contents









    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    the requirements of local laws, regulations, industry practices
    and customs relating to the publication and distribution of
    content and the display and sale of advertising;








     
        •    

    
    risks related to government regulation, including import or
    export restrictions and changes in trade regulations;








     
        •    

    
    issues related to occupational safety and adherence to diverse
    local labor laws and regulations;








     
        •    

    
    potentially adverse tax developments;








     
        •    

    
    longer payment cycles;








     
        •    

    
    political or social unrest;








     
        •    

    
    the existence in some countries of statutory shareholder
    minority rights and restrictions on foreign direct ownership;








     
        •    

    
    the presence of corruption in certain countries; and








     
        •    

    
    higher than anticipated costs of entry.





 


    One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s
    international operations and its operating results.


 


    In addition, certain of the Company’s operations are
    conducted in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies
    fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, the
    Company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which have in
    the past had, and could in the future have, an adverse effect on
    its results of operations in a given period. The Company’s
    international businesses are also subject to exchange control
    regulations, and the Company cannot predict the extent to which
    such controls may affect its ability to convert a foreign
    currency to U.S. dollars and remit U.S. dollars from
    abroad.


 


    Further, the Company could be at a competitive disadvantage in
    the long term if its businesses are not able to strengthen their
    positions and capitalize on international opportunities.
    However, international expansion involves significant
    investments, and investments in some regions can take a long
    period to generate an adequate return. Also, in some countries,
    there may not be a developed or efficient legal system to
    protect foreign investment or intellectual property rights.
    Further, if the Company expands into new international regions,
    some of its businesses will have only limited experience in
    operating and marketing their products and services in such
    regions and could be at a disadvantage compared to competitors
    with more experience in such regions.


 


    Piracy of the Company’s content may decrease the
    revenues received from the exploitation of its content and
    adversely affect its businesses and
    profitability. The piracy of the Company’s
    content, products and other intellectual property in the
    U.S. and internationally poses significant challenges for
    the Company’s businesses. Technological advances have made
    it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality
    unauthorized copies of content in unprotected digital formats.
    The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of the
    Company’s content and products or the products it licenses
    from third parties could result in a reduction of the revenues
    that the Company receives from the legitimate sale and
    distribution of its content and products. The Company devotes
    substantial resources to protecting its intellectual property,
    but there can be no assurance that the Company’s efforts to
    enforce its rights and combat piracy will be successful.


 


    The Company’s businesses may suffer if it cannot
    continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights
    on which its businesses depend. The Company relies
    on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and
    licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers,
    suppliers and other parties to establish and maintain its
    intellectual property rights in content, technology and products
    and services used to conduct its businesses. However, the
    Company’s intellectual property rights could be challenged
    or invalidated, it could have difficulty obtaining such rights
    or the rights may not be sufficient to permit it to take
    advantage of business opportunities, which could result in
    costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product and
    service offerings or other competitive harm. Further, the laws
    of certain countries do not protect the Company’s
    proprietary rights or such laws may not be strictly enforced,
    and the Company may be unable to protect its intellectual
    property adequately against unauthorized copying or use in
    certain countries.


 


    The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to
    claims of intellectual property infringement, which could have
    an adverse impact on the Company’s businesses or operating
    results. From time to time, the Company receives
    notices from others claiming that it infringes their
    intellectual property rights. Such claims and lawsuits could
    require the Company to enter into royalty or licensing
    agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary
    liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from
    further use of the intellectual





    
    21



Table of Contents





    property in question. This could require the Company to change
    its business practices and limit its ability to compete
    effectively. If the Company is required to take any of these
    actions, it could have an adverse impact on the Company’s
    businesses or operating results. Even if the Company believes
    that the claims are without merit, defending against the claims
    can be time-consuming and costly and divert management’s
    attention and resources away from its businesses.


 


    The Company is exposed to risks associated with disruption
    in the financial markets. The Company is exposed to
    risks associated with disruptions in the financial markets,
    which can make it more difficult and more expensive to obtain
    financing. For example, the adoption of new statutes and
    regulations, the implementation of recently enacted laws or new
    interpretations or the enforcement of older laws and regulations
    applicable to the financial markets or the financial services
    industry could result in a reduction in the amount of available
    credit or an increase in the cost of credit. In addition,
    disruptions in the financial markets can adversely affect the
    Company’s lenders, insurers, customers and counterparties,
    including vendors, retailers and film co-financing partners. For
    instance, the inability of the Company’s counterparties to
    obtain capital on acceptable terms could impair their ability to
    perform under their agreements with the Company and lead to
    various negative effects on the Company, including business
    disruption, decreased revenues, increases in bad debt write-offs
    and, in the case of film co-financing partners, greater risk
    with respect to the performance of the Company’s films.


 


    The Company’s businesses are subject to labor
    interruption. The Company and certain of its
    suppliers retain the services of writers, directors, actors,
    athletes, technicians, trade employees and others involved in
    the development and production of motion pictures, television
    programming and magazines who are covered by collective
    bargaining agreements. If the Company or its suppliers are
    unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is
    possible that the affected unions could take actions in the form
    of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Such actions or
    the possibility of such actions, including attempts to unionize,
    could cause delays in the production or the release dates of the
    Company’s feature films, television programming and
    magazines. The Company could also incur higher costs from such
    actions, new collective bargaining agreements or if collective
    bargaining agreements are renewed on less favorable terms. In
    addition, union or labor disputes or player lock-outs relating
    to professional sports leagues could have a negative impact on
    the Networks segment’s subscription and advertising
    revenues.


 


    The Company’s businesses rely heavily on network and
    information systems or other technology, and a disruption or
    failure of such networks, systems or technology as a result of
    computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other malfeasance,
    as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental releases of
    information or similar events, may disrupt the Company’s
    businesses, damage its reputation or have a negative impact on
    its revenues. Because network and information systems
    and other technologies are critical to many of the
    Company’s operating activities, network or information
    system shutdowns or service disruptions pose increasing risks.
    Such disruptions may be caused by events such as computer
    hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other
    destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks
    and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural
    disasters, failures or impairments of communication satellites
    or on-ground uplinks or downlinks used to transmit programming,
    terrorist attacks and similar events. Such events could have an
    adverse impact on the Company and its customers, including
    degradation or disruption of service and damage to equipment and
    data. Significant incidents could result in a disruption of the
    Company’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a loss
    of customers or revenues. Furthermore, the operating activities
    of the Company’s various businesses could be subject to
    risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification
    or accidental release or loss of information maintained in the
    information technology systems and networks of the Company and
    third party vendors, including personnel, customer and vendor
    data. The Company could be exposed to significant costs if such
    risks were to materialize, and such events could result in
    violations of data privacy laws and regulations and damage the
    reputation and credibility of the Company and its businesses and
    have a negative impact on its revenues. The Company also could
    be required to expend significant money and other resources to
    remedy any such security breach or to repair or replace networks
    or information systems.


 


    The Company’s businesses are subject to regulation in
    the U.S. and internationally, which could cause the Company
    to incur additional costs or liabilities or disrupt its business
    practices. The Company’s businesses are
    subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and
    regulations. Television networks (including those operated by
    the Networks segment) in the U.S. are regulated by
    U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered
    by





    
    22



Table of Contents





    various federal agencies, including the FCC. The Publishing
    segment’s U.S. magazine subscription and direct
    marketing activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and
    the states under general consumer protection statutes
    prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices, and certain
    areas of marketing activity are also subject to specific federal
    statutes and rules. In addition, the rules of the Audit Bureau
    of Circulations govern the Publishing segment’s
    U.S. magazine subscription activities. The Company’s
    digital properties and activities are subject to a variety of
    laws and regulations, including those relating to privacy,
    consumer protection, data retention and protection, content
    regulation and the use of software that allows for audience
    targeting and tracking of performance metrics, among others. See
    Item 1, “Business — Regulation” for a
    description of current significant federal, state, local and
    international laws, regulations inquiries and regulatory
    proceedings affecting the growth and operation of the
    Company’s businesses.


 


    The Company could incur substantial costs necessary to comply
    with new laws, regulations or policies or substantial penalties
    or other liabilities if it fails to comply with them. Compliance
    with new laws, regulations or policies also could cause the
    Company to change or limit its business practices in a manner
    that is adverse to its businesses. In addition, if there are
    changes in laws that provide protections that the Company relies
    on in conducting its business, it would subject the Company to
    greater risk of liability and could increase its costs of
    compliance or limit its ability to operate certain lines of
    business.


 


    If the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation is determined
    to be taxable for income tax purposes, Time Warner
    and/or Time
    Warner’s stockholders who received shares of AOL or TWC in
    connection with the spin-offs could incur significant income tax
    liabilities. In connection with the legal and
    structural separation of AOL Inc. (“AOL”) from the
    Company in December 2009 (the “AOL Separation”), Time
    Warner received an opinion of counsel confirming that the AOL
    Separation will not result in the recognition, for
    U.S. Federal income tax purposes, of gain or loss to Time
    Warner or its stockholders, except to the extent of cash
    received in lieu of fractional shares. In connection with the
    legal and structural separation of Time Warner Cable Inc.
    (“TWC”) from the Company in March 2009 (the “TWC
    Separation”), Time Warner received a private letter ruling
    from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and opinions
    of counsel confirming that the TWC Separation should not result
    in the recognition, for U.S. Federal income tax purposes,
    of gain or loss to Time Warner or its stockholders, except to
    the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares. The
    IRS ruling and the opinions received in connection with these
    transactions were based on, among other things, certain facts,
    assumptions, representations and undertakings made by Time
    Warner and by AOL or TWC, as applicable. If any of these facts,
    assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not
    otherwise satisfied, Time Warner and its stockholders may not be
    able to rely on the relevant IRS ruling or opinion and could be
    subject to significant tax liabilities. Furthermore, opinions of
    counsel are not binding on the IRS or state or local tax
    authorities or the courts, and a tax authority or court could
    determine that the AOL Separation or the TWC Separation should
    be treated as a taxable transaction. Under the tax matters
    agreement that Time Warner entered into with AOL, Time Warner is
    entitled to indemnification from AOL for taxes resulting from
    the failure of the AOL Separation to qualify as tax-free
    (“AOL Transaction Taxes”) as a result of
    (i) certain actions or failures to act by AOL or
    (ii) the failure of certain representations made by AOL to
    be true. Similarly, under the tax matters agreement that Time
    Warner entered into with TWC, Time Warner is entitled to
    indemnification from TWC for taxes resulting from the failure of
    the TWC Separation to qualify as tax-free (“TWC Transaction
    Taxes” and, together with the AOL Transaction Taxes, the
    “Transaction Taxes”) as a result of (i) certain
    actions or failures to act by TWC or (ii) the failure of
    certain representations made by TWC to be true. However, under
    these tax matters agreements, if Transaction Taxes are incurred
    for any other reason, Time Warner would not be entitled to
    indemnification.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESSES


 


    The failure to renew affiliate agreements on favorable
    terms or the inability to renew affiliate agreements could cause
    the revenues of the Networks segment to decline in any given
    period, and further consolidation of multichannel video
    programming distributors could adversely affect the
    segment. The Networks segment depends on affiliate
    agreements with cable system operators, satellite distribution
    services, telephone companies and other customers (known as
    affiliates) for the distribution of its networks and services,
    and there can be no assurance that these affiliate agreements
    will be renewed in the future on terms that are acceptable to
    the Networks segment. The inability to renew affiliate
    agreements or the renewal of affiliate agreements on less





    
    23



Table of Contents





    favorable terms may adversely affect the segment’s results
    of operations. In addition, the loss of carriage on the most
    widely penetrated programming tiers, including as a result of an
    affiliate’s creation of lower-priced video packages or
    tiers that do not include the segment’s cable networks,
    could reduce the distribution of the segment’s programming
    and adversely affect its advertising and subscription revenues.
    Further, the reduction of any affiliate marketing of the Network
    segment’s premium pay television services could negatively
    affect the segment’s subscription revenues. In addition,
    further consolidation among affiliates has provided them greater
    negotiating power, and increased vertical integration of such
    affiliates could adversely affect the segment’s ability to
    maintain or obtain distribution
    and/or
    marketing for its networks and services on commercially
    reasonable terms, or at all.


 


    The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to
    popular programming on acceptable terms could adversely affect
    the segment’s operating results. Turner
    obtains a significant portion of its programming, such as motion
    pictures, television series and sports events, from movie
    studios, television production companies and sports
    organizations. In addition, Home Box Office has agreements with
    certain movie studios that provide it with the exclusive rights
    to exhibit the studios’ original theatrical films during
    specified periods. Competition for popular programming is
    intense, and the businesses in the segment may be outbid by
    their competitors for the rights to programming or in connection
    with the renewal of programming they currently license and the
    cost to license such programming may increase due to such
    competition. There can be no assurance that the Networks segment
    will be able to enter into new agreements or renew existing
    agreements for programming on acceptable terms. If it is unable
    to obtain such new agreements or renewals on acceptable terms,
    the results of operations of the Networks segment may be
    adversely affected. In addition, the Networks segment may not be
    able to obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses
    from others over new distribution platforms on acceptable terms.


 


    Increases in the costs to produce programming may
    adversely affect the gross margins at the Networks
    segment. The Networks segment produces programming
    and it incurs costs for creative talent, including actors,
    writers and producers, as well as costs relating to development
    and marketing. The segment also incurs additional significant
    costs, such as production and newsgathering costs. The Networks
    segment’s failure to generate sufficient revenues to offset
    increases in the costs of creative talent or in development,
    marketing, production or newsgathering costs may lead to
    decreased profits at the Networks segment.


 


    The loss of subscribers could adversely affect the results
    of operations and future revenue growth at the Networks
    segment. The Networks segment faces increased
    competition from services that distribute movies, television
    shows and other video programming directly to consumers,
    including by means of online services that offer video streaming
    or other means of distribution. If consumers elect to utilize
    these services as an alternative to video services provided by
    affiliates, the networks in the segment may experience a decline
    in subscribers. Further, if video services rates charged by
    affiliates continue to increase or economic conditions
    deteriorate, consumers may cancel their video service
    subscriptions, reduce the number of services they subscribe to
    or elect to subscribe to a lower-priced tier that may not
    include all of the Company’s networks. In addition, if
    affiliates reduce their promotional efforts associated with the
    Company’s premium pay television services, the number of
    subscribers to such services could decline. A decrease in the
    number of subscribers to the Networks segment’s networks
    and services could result in a decrease in affiliate fees and
    advertising revenues.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
    BUSINESSES


 


    Sales of DVDs have been declining, which may adversely
    affect Warner Bros.’ growth prospects and results of
    operations. Several factors are contributing to an
    industry-wide decline in DVD sales both domestically and
    internationally, which has had an adverse effect on Warner
    Bros.’ results of operations. These factors include
    challenging economic conditions, the maturation of the standard
    definition DVD format, piracy, intense competition for consumer
    discretionary spending and leisure and entertainment time and
    the declining popularity of catalog titles. Subscription rental
    (including subscription streaming services) and discount rental
    kiosks, which generate significantly less revenue for Warner
    Bros. than DVD sales, have been capturing an increasing share of
    consumer transactions and consumer discretionary spending, which
    has adversely affected DVD prices and sales and could adversely
    affect Warner Bros.’ ability to increase revenues from the
    electronic delivery of its films and television programming.




    
    24



Table of Contents





    A decrease in demand for television programming could
    adversely affect Warner Bros.’
    revenues. Warner Bros. is a leading supplier of
    television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand for
    Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the
    launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the
    number of original programs ordered by the networks, the
    per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near
    term and the syndication revenues generated by Warner Bros. in
    the future. Various factors may increase the risk of such a
    decrease in demand, including station group consolidation and
    vertical integration of station groups and broadcast networks,
    as well as the vertical integration of television production
    studios and broadcast networks. Vertically integrated networks
    could increase the amount of programming they purchase from
    production companies with which they are affiliated, driven in
    part by their desire to have more control over digital rights.
    In addition, the failure of ratings for the programming to meet
    expectations and the shift of viewers and advertisers away from
    network television to other entertainment and information
    outlets could adversely affect the amount and type (e.g.,
    scripted drama) of original programming ordered by networks and
    the amount they are willing to pay for such programming or could
    result in a network’s cancellation of a program. Local
    television stations may face loss of viewership and an
    accompanying loss of advertising revenues as viewers move to
    other entertainment outlets, which may negatively affect the
    segment’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in
    syndication that it has received in the past. Finally, the
    increasing popularity of local television content in
    international regions also could result in decreased demand,
    fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and
    syndication revenues for U.S. television content in
    international regions.


 


    If the costs of producing and marketing feature films
    increase in the future, it may be more difficult for a film to
    generate a profit. The production and marketing of
    feature films is very expensive and has been increasing in
    recent years. The increasing popularity of 3D films and the
    trend toward producing event and franchise films (which often
    entail higher talent costs for films later in the series) could
    result in even higher production costs. If production and
    marketing costs continue to increase in the future, it may make
    it more difficult for the segment’s films to generate a
    profit. Also, if film production incentives, such as subsidies
    and rebates, currently offered in certain U.S. states and
    international territories (particularly the United Kingdom) are
    reduced or discontinued, Warner Bros.’ capital requirements
    for production would increase.


 


    Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films
    could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the
    amortization of production costs. Warner Bros. is
    required to amortize capitalized film production costs over the
    expected revenue streams as it recognizes revenues from the
    associated films. The amount of film production costs that will
    be amortized each quarter depends on how much future revenue
    Warner Bros. expects to receive from each film. Unamortized film
    production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting
    period on a
    film-by-film
    basis. If the estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to
    recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but
    unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production
    costs are written down to fair value. In any given quarter, if
    Warner Bros. lowers its forecast with respect to total
    anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would
    be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs.
    Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely
    affect Warner Bros.’ operating results in a given period.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS


 


    The Publishing segment could face increased costs and
    business disruption resulting from instability in the
    U.S. wholesaler distribution channel. The
    Publishing segment operates a national distribution business
    that relies on wholesalers to distribute its magazines to
    newsstands and other retail outlets. A small number of
    wholesalers are responsible for a substantial percentage of the
    wholesale magazine distribution business in the U.S. There
    is the possibility of consolidation among these major
    wholesalers and insolvency of or non-payment by one or more of
    these wholesalers, especially in light of the economic climate
    and its impact on retailers. Distribution channel disruptions
    can temporarily impede the Publishing segment’s ability to
    distribute magazines to the retail marketplace, which could,
    among other things, negatively affect the ability of certain
    magazines to meet the rate base established with advertisers.
    Continued disruption in the wholesaler channel, an increase in
    wholesaler costs or the failure of wholesalers to pay amounts
    due could adversely affect the Publishing segment’s
    operating income or cash flow.




    
    25



Table of Contents









 




    
    



    
    Item 1B