Item 1A, “Risk Factors” below and
    “Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” in
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition” in the financial
    section of this report. Time Warner is under no obligation to
    (and expressly disclaims any obligation to) update or alter its
    forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, subsequent events or otherwise.


 



    Available
    Information and Website


 


    The Company’s annual reports on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to such reports filed with or furnished to
    the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”)
    pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
    Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on the
    Company’s website at www.timewarner.com as soon as
    reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically
    filed with the SEC.


 



    AOL


 


    AOL is a leader in interactive services. In the U.S. and
    internationally, AOL and its subsidiaries operate a leading
    network of web brands, offer free client software and services
    to users who have their own Internet connection and also provide
    services to advertisers on the Internet. In addition, AOL
    operates one of the largest Internet access subscription
    services in the U.S.


 


    On April 13, 2006, AOL, Google and Time Warner completed
    the issuance to Google of a 5% indirect equity interest in AOL
    in exchange for $1 billion in cash, having entered into
    agreements in March 2006 that expanded their strategic alliance.
    Under the alliance, Google will continue to provide search
    services to AOL’s network of Internet properties worldwide
    and provide AOL with a greater share of revenues generated
    through searches conducted on the AOL network. Google agreed,
    among other things, to provide AOL the use of a modified version
    of its search technology to enable AOL to sell search
    advertising directly to advertisers on AOL-owned properties, to
    provide AOL with marketing credits for promotion of AOL’s
    properties on Google’s network and other promotional
    opportunities for AOL content, to collaborate in video search
    and promotion of AOL’s video destination, and to enable
    Google and AIM instant messaging users to communicate with each
    other, provided certain conditions are met.


 



    Access
    and Global Web Services


 


    Historically, AOL’s primary product has been an online
    subscription service providing
    dial-up
    Internet access for a monthly fee. This subscription service
    continues to generate the substantial majority of AOL’s
    revenues. As of December 31, 2006, AOL had
    13.2 million access subscribers in the U.S. The
    primary price plans offered by AOL



    
    2



Table of Contents




    are $25.90 and $9.95 per month plans providing varying
    levels of
    dial-up
    access service, storage, tools and services. In addition, AOL
    subsidiaries offer the CompuServe and Netscape Internet services.


 


    During 2006, AOL began a transition from a primarily
    subscription-based business to an advertising-supported global
    web services business. A significant component of this
    transition was to permit the use of most of AOL’s services,
    including the AOL client software and AOL
    e-mail,
    without charge. As a result, as long as an individual has a
    means to connect to the Internet, that person is able to access
    and use most of the AOL services for free.


 


    AOL offers a variety of websites, portals such as AOL.com
    (including versions in other languages), and related
    applications and services, which, along with the AOL and
    low-cost ISP services, form an online network (the “AOL
    Network”). Specifically, the AOL Network includes AOL.com,
    AIM, MapQuest, Moviefone, ICQ, and Netscape as well as other
    websites that are owned or operated by third parties for which
    the Internet traffic has been assigned to AOL under agreements
    with the other party. Accordingly, AOL’s audience includes
    AOL members and Internet users who visit the AOL Network. AOL
    seeks to attract highly-engaged users to and retain those users
    on the AOL Network by offering compelling free content, features
    and tools.


 


    AOL’s strategy is to maintain or expand the audience of
    unique visitors to the AOL Network and to increase their
    activity. This activity is a significant driver of AOL’s
    advertising revenues. AOL intends to distribute its free and
    paid products and services through a variety of methods,
    including relationships with third-party high-speed Internet
    access providers, retailers, computer manufacturers or other
    aggregators of Internet activity and through search engine
    marketing and search engine optimization.


 


    AOL earns revenue by offering advertisers a range of online
    marketing and promotional opportunities both on the AOL Network
    and on third-party websites primarily through Advertising.com.
    Online advertising arrangements generally involve payments by
    advertisers on either a fixed-fee basis or on a
    pay-for-performance
    basis, where the advertiser pays based on the “click”
    or customer transaction resulting from the advertisement. AOL
    also earns revenue through its relationship with Google, which
    sells advertising that appears on AOL search sites and shares
    the resulting revenues with AOL. AOL offers advertisers
    fixed-fee display advertising and performance-based display
    advertising, as well as a variety of customized programs,
    including premier placement, video advertising, rich media
    advertising, sponsorship of content offerings for designated
    time periods, local and classified advertising, audience
    targeting opportunities, search engine management and lead
    generation services. Advertising.com connects advertisers with
    online advertising inventory by purchasing this inventory from
    publishers of third-party websites, and using its proprietary
    optimization technology to determine the optimal advertising to
    display on each inventory placement.


 


    AOL also offers paid services to AOL members and to Internet
    users generally, including storage and online safety and
    security products. AOL intends to develop and offer a variety of
    other premium content, services and applications that appeal to
    high-speed and mobile users.


 



    International


 


    Internationally, AOL is also transitioning from primarily a
    subscription-based business to an advertising-supported web
    services business. During 2006, the Company entered into
    agreements to sell its AOL European access businesses. On
    October 31, 2006, AOL completed the sale of its French
    access business to Neuf Cegetel S.A. for approximately
    $360 million in cash, and on December 29, 2006, AOL
    sold its U.K. access business to The Carphone Warehouse Group
    PLC for approximately $712 million in cash,
    $476 million of which was paid at closing and the remainder
    of which will be payable over the
    18-month
    period following the closing. In connection with these sales,
    AOL entered into separate agreements with the purchasers to
    provide ongoing web services and content to their existing and
    purchased subscribers. For further information regarding these
    sales, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
    Results of Operations and Financial Condition” in the
    financial section of this report. In September 2006, AOL entered
    into an agreement to sell its German access business to Telecom
    Italia S.p.A. for approximately $870 million in cash,
    subject to certain closing adjustments, and will also provide
    ongoing web services to Telecom Italia S.p.A. following closing,
    which is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2007.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    Technologies


 


    AOL employs a multiple vendor strategy in designing, structuring
    and operating the network services utilized in its interactive
    online services. AOLnet, an Internet protocol (IP) network of
    third-party network service providers, is used for the AOL
    service, the Netscape service, certain versions of the
    CompuServe service in North America, and other subscriber
    services, in addition to being used by outside parties. AOL
    expects to continue to review its network services arrangements
    in order to align its network capacity with market conditions
    and manage data network costs.


 


    AOL enters into multi-year data communications agreements to
    support AOLnet. In connection with those agreements, AOL may
    commit to purchase certain minimum levels of data communications
    services or to pay a fixed cost for network services.


 


    AOL also utilizes the AOL Transit Data Network
    (“ATDN”), the domestic and international network that
    connects AOL, CompuServe 2000 and Time Warner Cable high-speed
    data customers to the Internet. The ATDN also functions as the
    conduit between much of Time Warner’s content and the
    Internet, linking together various facilities throughout the
    world, with its greatest capacity in the U.S. and Europe. The
    ATDN Internet backbone is built from high-end routers and
    high-bandwidth circuits purchased primarily under long-term
    agreements from third-party carriers.


 


    Improving and maintaining AOLnet and the ATDN requires a
    substantial investment in telecommunications equipment and
    services. In addition to making cash purchases of
    telecommunications equipment, AOL also finances some of these
    purchases through leases.


 



    Marketing


 


    To support its goals of attracting and retaining members and
    users, growing the audience of the AOL Network, and developing
    and differentiating its family of brands, AOL markets its
    brands, products and services through a broad array of programs
    and media, including retail distribution, bundling agreements,
    web advertising and alternate media. Other marketing strategies
    include search engine marketing as well as online and offline
    cross-promotion and co-branding with a wide variety of partners.
    Additionally, through multi-year bundling agreements, AOL’s
    interactive online services and products are installed on
    several different brands of personal computers made by personal
    computer manufacturers.


 



    Competition


 


    AOL’s global web services business competes for online
    users’ time and attention and advertising, subscription and
    commerce revenues with a wide range of companies, including
    web-based portals and individual websites providing content,
    commerce, search, communications, community and similar
    features, as well as ISPs and traditional media companies such
    as Viacom Inc., CBS Corp., News Corporation, The Walt Disney
    Company, Tribune Company, The New York Times Company and NBC
    Universal. Major competitors include Yahoo! Inc., Microsoft
    Corporation, Google, IAC/ InterActiveCorp and eBay Inc. In
    addition, new properties such as YouTube, MySpace and Facebook
    that have been able to gain large numbers of visitors and
    generate significant amounts of activity compete with AOL.


 


    Advertising.com, which generates almost a quarter of AOL’s
    advertising revenues, competes with other aggregators of
    third-party inventory and other companies that offer competing
    advertising products, technology and services, such as 24/7 Real
    Media, Inc. and ValueClick, Inc. Competition affects the prices
    paid by Advertising.com for inventory and prices charged to
    advertisers for Advertising.com’s products and services. In
    order for Advertising.com to remain competitive, it is important
    that it offer compelling advertising products and technologies
    to the advertisers who are its customers.


 


    As part of its strategy, AOL has sold its Internet access
    operations in France and the U.K. and has agreed to do so in
    Germany, and in conjunction with these sales has established
    relationships with the purchasers to continue to provide its
    former subscribers with web services, including portals,
    e-mail and
    content. In Europe, following the sales of its access operations
    businesses, AOL Europe’s primary competitors are Google,
    Microsoft Corporation and



    
    4



Table of Contents




    Yahoo! Inc. in its main markets, in addition to Web.de in
    Germany and Voilá in France. Internationally, AOL expects
    to compete against local Internet and other web services
    companies as well as current U.S. competitors who have an
    established portal presence in these locations already.


 


    Although AOL has implemented a new long-term business strategy,
    AOL continues to operate in the Internet access business and
    competes for subscription revenues with companies providing
    dial-up
    Internet service, including EarthLink, and discount ISPs such as
    NetZero. AOL also competes with companies providing Internet
    access via broadband technologies, such as cable companies and
    telephone companies, and companies offering emerging broadband
    access technologies, including wireless, mobile wireless, fiber
    optic cable and power line.


 


    AOL faces significant competition, primarily from the
    competitors identified above, in the distribution of its
    products and services in a cost effective manner. For example,
    AOL competes to secure placement on new computers and mobile
    devices, including cellular telephones and PDAs, to distribute
    and promote its products and services. AOL also competes with
    other providers of portals and other Internet products and
    services to distribute and promote its products and services
    through high-speed internet access networks at retail outlets,
    on new computers, as well as via other distribution channels.


 



    CABLE


 


    The Company’s cable business, Time Warner Cable Inc. and
    its subsidiaries (“TWC” or “Time Warner
    Cable”), is the second-largest cable operator in the U.S.
    and is an industry leader in developing and launching innovative
    video, data and voice services. As of December 31, 2006,
    TWC’s cable systems passed approximately 26 million
    U.S. homes in well-clustered locations and had
    approximately 13.4 million basic video subscribers (after
    giving effect to the distribution of the assets of Texas and
    Kansas City Cable Partners, L.P. (“TKCCP”) to its
    partners on January 1, 2007). Approximately 85% of these
    homes were located in one of five principal geographic areas:
    New York state, the Carolinas, Ohio, southern California and
    Texas. As of February 1, 2007, Time Warner Cable was the
    largest cable system operator in a number of large cities,
    including New York City and Los Angeles.


 


    As part of TWC’s strategy to expand its cable footprint and
    improve the clustering of its cable systems, on July 31,
    2006, Time Warner NY Cable LLC (“TW NY”), a subsidiary
    of TWC, and Comcast completed their respective acquisitions of
    assets comprising in the aggregate substantially all of the
    cable systems of Adelphia. TW NY paid for the Adelphia assets
    acquired by it with approximately $8.9 billion in cash
    (after certain purchase price adjustments) and shares of
    TWC’s Class A Common Stock representing approximately
    16% of TWC’s outstanding common stock. Immediately prior to
    the Adelphia acquisition, TWC and Time Warner Entertainment
    Company, L.P. (“TWE”) redeemed Comcast’s
    interests in TWC and TWE, with the result that Comcast no longer
    has an interest in either company. In addition, immediately
    after the acquisition of the Adelphia assets, TW NY exchanged
    certain cable systems with subsidiaries of Comcast. These
    transactions (referred to generally herein as the
    “Adelphia/Comcast Transactions”) resulted in a net
    increase of 3.2 million basic video subscribers served by
    TWC’s cable systems, consisting of approximately
    4.0 million subscribers in acquired systems and
    approximately 0.8 million subscribers in systems
    transferred to Comcast. Cable systems acquired by TWC from
    Adelphia or from Comcast in the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions
    are referred to herein as the “Acquired Systems,” and
    systems owned or operated by TWC since prior to the
    Adelphia/Comcast Transactions are referred to herein as the
    “Legacy Systems.”


 


    On February 13, 2007, Adelphia’s Chapter 11
    reorganization plan became effective and, under applicable
    securities law regulations and provisions of the
    U.S. bankruptcy code, TWC became a public company subject
    to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on
    the same day. Under the terms of the reorganization plan, most
    of the shares of TWC Class A Common Stock that Adelphia
    received as part of the payment for the systems TWC acquired in
    July 2006 are being distributed to Adelphia’s creditors. It
    is expected that the TWC Class A Common Stock will begin to
    trade on the NYSE on or about March 1, 2007.


 


    As the marketplace for basic video services has matured, the
    cable industry has responded by introducing new services,
    including enhanced video services like HDTV and
    video-on-demand
    (“VOD”), high-speed Internet access and Internet
    protocol (“IP”)-based telephony. As of
    December 31, 2006, approximately 7.3 million (or 54%)
    of TWC’s 13.4 million basic video customers subscribed
    to digital video services, 6.6 million (or 26%) of
    high-speed



    
    5



Table of Contents




    data service-ready homes subscribed to a residential high-speed
    data service such as the Road Runner service and
    1.9 million (or 11%) of voice service-ready homes
    subscribed to Digital Phone, TWC’s newest service. TWC
    launched Digital Phone broadly in its Legacy Systems during 2004
    and it is available in some of the Acquired Systems on a limited
    basis. As of December 31, 2006, in the Legacy Systems,
    approximately 56% of TWC’s 9.5 million basic video
    customers subscribed to digital video services and over 30% of
    high-speed data service ready homes subscribed to a residential
    high-speed data service. The customer data contained herein
    includes subscribers in certain managed, but unconsolidated,
    systems in the TKCCP joint venture which were distributed to TWC
    effective on January 1, 2007. For additional information
    with respect to the distribution of the assets of TKCCP to its
    partners on January 1, 2007, see “Management’s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Recent Developments” in the financial
    pages herein.


 



    Products
    and Services


 


    Time Warner Cable offers a variety of services over its
    broadband cable systems, including video, high-speed data and
    voice services. Time Warner Cable markets its services both
    separately and as “bundled” packages of multiple
    services and features. Increasingly, its customers subscribe to
    more than one service for a single price reflected on a single
    consolidated monthly bill.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, nearly all of the Legacy Systems
    had bandwidth capacity of 750MHz or greater and were technically
    capable of delivering all of TWC’s advanced digital video,
    high-speed data and Digital Phone services. As of such date, it
    is estimated that approximately 94% of the homes passed in the
    Acquired Systems were served by plant that had been upgraded to
    at least 750MHz. TWC is in the process of upgrading the plant in
    the Acquired Systems. As a result of the Adelphia/Comcast
    Transactions, TWC has made and anticipates continuing to make
    significant capital expenditures over the next 12 to
    24 months related to the continued integration of the
    Acquired Systems, which will enable TWC to offer its advanced
    services and features in the Acquired Systems.


 



    Video
    Services


 


    Time Warner Cable offers a full range of analog and digital
    video service levels, as well as advanced services such as VOD,
    HDTV, and set-top boxes equipped with digital video recorders
    (“DVRs”).


 


    Analog services.  Analog video service is
    available in all of TWC’s operating areas. Time Warner
    Cable typically offers two levels or “tiers” of
    service — Basic and Standard — which
    together offer, for a fixed monthly fee based on the level of
    service selected, on average approximately 70 channels for
    viewing on “cable-ready” television sets without the
    need for a separate set-top box. The Basic tier generally
    provides customers with broadcast television signals, satellite
    delivered broadcast networks and superstations, local
    origination channels, and public access, educational and
    government channels. The Standard tier generally includes
    national, regional and local cable news, entertainment and other
    specialty networks, such as CNN, A&E, ESPN and MTV.
    Subscribers may also purchase premium channels, such as HBO,
    Showtime and Starz!, for an additional monthly fee.


 


    In certain areas, Time Warner Cable’s Basic and Standard
    tiers also include Time Warner Cable’s proprietary local
    programming devoted to the communities served by Time Warner
    Cable. For example, Time Warner Cable provides
    24-hour
    local news channels in the following areas: NY1 News and NY1
    Noticias in New York, NY; News 14 Carolina in Charlotte,
    Greensboro and Raleigh, NC; R News in Rochester, NY; Capital
    News 9 in Albany, NY; News 8 Austin in Austin, TX; and News 10
    Now in Syracuse, NY.


 


    Digital services.  Subscribers to Time Warner
    Cable’s digital video services receive up to 250 digital
    video and audio services for a fixed monthly fee. Digital video
    subscribers also have access to an interactive on-screen program
    guide, on-demand services, multiplex versions of premium
    channels such as HBO and Showtime, and specialized,
    thematically-linked programming tiers. Digital video subscribers
    may also purchase seasonal sports packages, generally for a
    single fee for the entire season. As of December 31, 2006,
    54.2% of TWC’s basic video subscribers, or approximately
    7.3 million, subscribed to its digital video services and,
    in the Legacy Systems, approximately 55.6% of TWC’s basic
    video subscribers, or approximately 5.3 million, subscribed
    to its digital video services.



    
    6



Table of Contents



 


    On-Demand services.  On-Demand services enable
    digital video users to view what they want, when they want it.
    These services feature advanced functionality, such as the
    ability to pause, rewind and fast-forward on-demand programs
    using Time Warner Cable’s VOD system. These services
    include
    Movies-on-Demand,
    Subscription-Video-on-Demand
    (“SVOD”), which provides subscribers with On-Demand
    access to programming that is either associated with a
    particular premium content provider to which they already
    subscribe, such as HBO On-Demand, or is otherwise made available
    on a subscription basis; and Free
    Video-on-Demand,
    which provides selected movies, programs and program excerpts to
    all digital subscribers with On-Demand access with no
    incremental charges. TWC’s new Start Over service uses VOD
    technology to allow digital video customers to instantly restart
    selected programs then being aired by participating programming
    services. Users cannot fast forward through commercials while
    using Start Over, so traditional advertising economics are
    preserved. The Start Over service was rolled out in a number of
    divisions during 2006 and is expected to be introduced in
    additional service areas during 2007.


 


    DVRs.  Set-top boxes equipped with digital
    video recorders are available for a fixed monthly fee. Among
    other things, these set-top boxes enable customers to pause
    and/or
    rewind “live” television programs, and easily and
    conveniently record programs onto a hard drive built into the
    set-top box.


 


    High definition services.  Time Warner Cable
    generally offers approximately 15 channels of high definition
    television, or HDTV, in each of its systems, mainly consisting
    of broadcast signals and standard and premium cable networks, as
    well as HDTV
    Movies-on-Demand
    in most of the Legacy Systems. HDTV provides a significantly
    clearer picture and improved audio quality. Due to a number of
    factors, during the first quarter of 2007, TWC has experienced,
    and may continue to experience during the near term, difficulty
    in obtaining sufficient quantities of HDTV-capable set-top boxes
    to satisfy all consumer requests for them.


 


    Interactive services.  TWC’s two-way
    digital cable infrastructure enables Time Warner Cable to
    introduce innovative interactive features and services. Such
    services, which were either offered by Time Warner Cable systems
    as of December 31, 2006 or are in the process of being
    tested or rolled out, include Quick Clips, which permits digital
    subscribers to view on their televisions a variety of news,
    weather and sports content developed for websites; Instant
    News & More, which allows customers to gain access to
    information about the weather, sports, stocks, traffic, and
    other relevant data on TV; interactive voting and polling, which
    allows subscribers to participate in live on-screen voting and
    polling; a sports news alert and eBay tracking and participation
    via remote control.


 



    High-speed
    Data Services


 


    Time Warner Cable offered high-speed data services to nearly 99%
    of its homes passed as of December 31, 2006. As of
    December 31, 2006, Time Warner Cable had approximately
    6.6 million residential high-speed data subscribers and
    approximately 245,000 commercial accounts. Residential
    high-speed data subscribers represent over 30% of service-ready
    homes passed in the Legacy Systems. Penetration rates are lower
    in the Acquired Systems. Subscribers pay a monthly flat fee
    based on the level of service received. Due to their different
    characteristics, commercial and bulk subscribers are charged at
    different rates than residential subscribers. High-speed data
    customers connect their personal computers (PCs) or other
    broadband-ready devices using a cable modem.


 


    Road Runner.  As of December 31, 2006,
    Time Warner Cable offered its Road Runner branded, high-speed
    data service to residential subscribers in virtually all Legacy
    Systems. Time Warner Cable expects to complete a transition to
    the Road Runner service in the Acquired Systems before the end
    of 2007.


 


    Time Warner Cable Business Class.  Time Warner
    Cable offers commercial customers a variety of high-speed data
    services, including Internet access, website hosting and managed
    security. These services are offered to a broad range of
    businesses and are marketed under the “Time Warner Cable
    Business Class” brand. In addition to the residential
    subscribers and commercial accounts serviced through TWC’s
    cable systems, Time Warner Cable provides the Road Runner
    high-speed data service to third parties for a fee.



    
    7



Table of Contents



 



    Voice
    Services


 


    Digital Phone.  Digital Phone is the newest of
    TWC’s core services, having been launched broadly across
    the Legacy Systems in 2004. With the Digital Phone service, Time
    Warner Cable can offer customers a combined,
    easy-to-use
    package of video, high-speed data and voice services and compete
    effectively against similarly bundled products offered by
    competitors. Most customers receive a Digital Phone package that
    provides unlimited local, in-state and U.S., Canada and Puerto
    Rico long-distance calling and a number of calling features for
    a fixed monthly fee. During 2006, Time Warner Cable also
    introduced, among other things, a lower-priced unlimited
    in-state only calling plan, and additional calling plans are
    expected to be introduced in the future.


 


    As of December 31, 2006, Digital Phone had been launched in
    all of Time Warner Cable’s Legacy Systems and was available
    to nearly 94% of homes passed in such systems. At that time,
    Time Warner Cable had approximately 1.9 million Digital
    Phone customers and penetration of voice service to serviceable
    homes was approximately 11%. TWC has begun and expects to
    continue rolling out Digital Phone across the Acquired Systems
    during 2007.


 


    As an adjunct to its existing commercial high-speed data
    business, TWC intends to introduce a commercial voice service to
    small- and medium-sized businesses in most of its Legacy Systems
    during 2007.


 


    Digital Phone is delivered over the same system facilities used
    by Time Warner Cable to provide video and high-speed data
    services. Time Warner Cable provides customers with a
    voice-enabled cable modem that digitizes voice signals and
    routes them as data packets, using IP technology, over
    TWC’s managed broadband cable systems. Calls to
    destinations outside of TWC’s cable systems are routed
    through the traditional public switched telephone network.
    Unlike Internet phone providers, such as Vonage and Lingo, which
    utilize the Internet to transport telephone calls, TWC’s
    Digital Phone service uses only TWC’s managed network and
    the public switched telephone network to route calls, which TWC
    believes allows it to better monitor and maintain call and
    service quality.


 


    TWC has agreements with Verizon Communications, Inc. and Sprint
    Nextel Corporation (“Sprint”) under which these
    companies assist it in providing Digital Phone service,
    delivering enhanced 911 service and assisting in local number
    portability and long distance traffic carriage. In July 2006,
    TWC agreed to expand its multi-year relationship with Sprint as
    its primary provider of these services, including in the
    Acquired Systems.


 



    Wireless
    Joint Ventures


 


    In November 2005, TWC and several other cable companies,
    together with Sprint, announced the formation of a joint venture
    to develop integrated video entertainment, wireline and wireless
    data and communications products and services. In 2006, TWC
    began offering a service bundle that includes Sprint wireless
    voice service in limited operating areas and will continue to
    roll out this product during 2007. A separate joint venture
    formed by the same parties participated in the FCC’s
    Advanced Wireless Spectrum (“AWS”) auction during 2006
    and was awarded licenses covering 20 MHz of spectrum in
    about 90% of the continental U.S. and Hawaii. Under the joint
    venture agreement, Sprint has the ability to exit the venture
    upon 60 days’ notice and to require that the venture
    purchase its interests for an amount equal to Sprint’s
    capital contributions to that point. In addition, under certain
    circumstances, the cable operators that are members of the
    venture have the ability to exit the venture and receive,
    subject to certain limitations and adjustments, AWS licenses
    covering their operating areas.


 



    Advertising


 


    TWC also generates revenue by selling advertising time to a
    variety of national, regional and local businesses. Cable
    operators generally receive an allocation of scheduled
    advertising time on cable programming services into which the
    operator can insert commercials, generally two minutes per hour.
    The clustering of TWC’s systems expands the number of
    viewers that TWC reaches within a local designated market area,
    which helps local advertising sales personnel to compete more
    effectively with broadcast and other media. As a result of the
    Adelphia/Comcast Transactions, TWC has a strong presence in the
    country’s two largest advertising markets, New York City
    and Los Angeles. In addition, in many locations contiguous cable
    system operators have formed advertising interconnects to
    deliver locally inserted commercials across wider geographic
    areas, replicating the reach of



    
    8



Table of Contents




    broadcast stations as closely as possible. TWC is exploring
    various means by which it could utilize its advanced services,
    such as VOD and interactive TV, to increase advertising revenues.


 



    Content
    and Equipment Suppliers


 


    Video programming content.  Video programming
    rights represent a major cost component for TWC. TWC generally
    obtains the right to carry video programming services through
    the negotiation of affiliation agreements with programmers,
    including affiliates of Time Warner . Most programming services
    impose a monthly license fee per subscriber upon the cable
    operator which typically increases over time and sometimes
    includes a volume discount. However, payments to the providers
    of some premium channels may be based on a percentage of
    TWC’s gross subscription receipts for the channel.
    TWC’s programming costs continue to rise, especially for
    sports programming. (See “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition — Business Segment Results —
    Cable” in the financial section of this report.) TWC
    obtains rights to On-Demand programming from film studios and
    other distributors and typically pays the provider a portion of
    any separate fees paid by the customer for the selected
    On-Demand programming.


 


    TWC obtains the right to carry local broadcast television
    stations either through the stations’ exercise of their
    so-called “must carry” rights, or through negotiated
    retransmission consent agreements. See “Regulatory
    Matters — Communications Act and FCC
    Regulation — Carriage of Broadcast Television Stations
    and Other Programming Regulation” below. TWC’s
    existing programming and retransmission consent agreements
    expire at various times.


 


    TWC also carries the high-definition television signals and
    other digital signals broadcast by numerous local television
    stations, including all stations owned and operated by the major
    broadcast networks and nearly all public television stations, as
    well as various basic cable and premium networks and certain
    high-definition sports programming.


 


    Pay-Per-View
    and On-Demand content.  TWC generally obtains
    rights to carry movies on an on-demand basis, as well as
    Pay-Per-View
    events, through iN Demand, a company in which TWC holds a
    minority interest. iN Demand negotiates with motion picture
    studios to obtain the relevant distribution rights.
    Movies-on-Demand
    content is generally provided to TWC under a revenue-sharing
    arrangement, although in some cases there are required minimum
    guaranteed payments. SVOD and other “free on-demand”
    content is obtained directly from the relevant content providers.


 


    Set-top boxes.  TWC currently purchases set-top
    boxes and
    CableCARDstm
    (which enable some digital televisions and other devices to
    receive certain non-interactive digital services without a
    set-top box) from a limited number of suppliers. TWC leases
    these set-top boxes and
    CableCARDstm
    to subscribers at monthly rates. Video equipment fees are
    regulated by the FCC on a basis tied to capital cost plus a set
    rate of return. Certain FCC regulations relating to set-top box
    equipment, which are to come into effect in July 2007, are
    expected to increase TWC’s set-top box costs. See
    “Regulatory Matters,” below, for additional
    information regarding these regulations.


 



    Competition


 


    TWC faces intense competition from a variety of alternative
    information and entertainment delivery sources, principally from
    direct-to-home
    satellite video providers and certain regional telephone
    companies, each of which offers or will shortly be able to offer
    a broad range of services through increasingly varied
    technologies. In addition, technological advances will likely
    increase the number of alternatives available to TWC’s
    customers from other providers and intensify the competitive
    environment. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to
    Cable Competition.”


 



    Principal
    Competitors


 


    Direct broadcast satellite.  TWC’s video
    services face competition from direct broadcast satellite
    services, such as the Dish Network and DirecTV. DirecTV and Dish
    Network offer satellite-delivered pre-packaged programming
    services that can be received by relatively small and
    inexpensive receiving dishes. The video services provided by
    these satellite providers are comparable, in many respects, to
    TWC’s analog and digital video



    
    9



Table of Contents




    services, and direct broadcast satellite subscribers can obtain
    satellite receivers with integrated digital video recorders from
    those providers as well. Both major direct broadcast satellite
    providers have entered into co-marketing arrangements with
    regional telephone companies that allow the telephone companies
    to offer customers a bundle of video, telephone and DSL
    services, which competes with TWC’s “Triple Play”
    of video, high-speed data and Digital Phone services.


 


    Incumbent local telephone
    companies.  TWC’s high-speed data and Digital
    Phone services face competition from the DSL and traditional
    phone offerings of incumbent local telephone companies in most
    TWC operating areas. In some cases, DSL providers have partnered
    with ISPs such as AOL, which may enhance DSL’s competitive
    position. In addition, some incumbent local telephone companies,
    such as AT&T and Verizon, which have grown through
    consolidation in recent years, have undertaken fiber-optic
    upgrades of their networks. The technologies they are using,
    such as
    fiber-to-the-node
    (“FTTN”) and
    fiber-to-the-home
    (“FTTH”), are capable of carrying two-way video,
    high-speed data with substantial bandwidth and
    IP-based
    telephony services, each of which is similar to the comparable
    services offered by TWC. These upgraded networks allow for the
    marketing of service bundles of video, data and voice services
    plus wireless services provided by the telephone companies’
    own or affiliated companies.


 


    Cable overbuilds.  TWC operates its cable
    systems under non-exclusive franchises granted by state or local
    authorities. The existence of more than one cable system
    operating in the same territory is referred to as an
    “overbuild.” In some of TWC’s operating areas,
    other operators have overbuilt TWC systems
    and/or offer
    video, data and voice services in competition with TWC.


 


    Satellite Master Antenna Television
    (“SMATV”).  Additional competition comes
    from private cable television systems servicing condominiums,
    apartment complexes and certain other multiple dwelling units,
    often on an exclusive basis, with local broadcast signals and
    many of the same satellite-delivered program services offered by
    franchised cable systems. Some SMATV operators now offer voice
    and high-speed data services as well.


 


    Wireless Cable/Multi-channel Microwave Distribution Services
    (“MMDS”).  TWC faces competition from
    wireless cable operators, including digital wireless operators,
    who use terrestrial microwave technology to distribute video
    programming and some of which now offer voice and high-speed
    data services.


 



    Other
    Competition and Competitive Factors


 


    In addition to competing with the video, data and voice services
    offered by direct broadcast satellite providers, local incumbent
    telephone companies, cable overbuilders and some SMATVs and
    MMDSs, each of TWC’s services also faces competition from
    other companies that provide services on a stand-alone basis.


 


    Video competition.  TWC’s video services
    face competition on a stand-alone basis from a number of
    different sources, including local television broadcast stations
    that provide free
    over-the-air
    programming which can be received using an antenna and a
    television set; local television broadcasters, which in selected
    markets sell digital subscription services; and video
    programming delivered over broadband Internet connections.
    TWC’s VOD services compete with online movie services,
    which are delivered over broadband Internet connections, and
    also video stores and mail-in companies, and home video products.


 


    “Online” competition.  TWC’s
    high-speed data services face or may face competition from a
    variety of companies that offer other forms of online services,
    such as low cost
    dial-up
    services over ordinary telephone lines, and developing
    technologies, such as Internet service via power lines,
    satellite and various wireless services (e.g., Wi-Fi), including
    those of local municipalities.


 


    Digital Phone competition.  TWC’s Digital
    Phone service also competes with wireless phone providers and
    national providers of Internet-based phone products such as
    Vonage. The increase in the number of different technologies
    capable of carrying voice services has intensified the
    competitive environment in which TWC’s Digital Phone
    service operates.



    
    10



Table of Contents



 



    FILMED
    ENTERTAINMENT


 


    The Company’s Filmed Entertainment businesses produce and
    distribute theatrical motion pictures, television shows,
    animation and other programming, distribute home video product,
    and license rights to the Company’s feature films,
    television programming and characters. All of the foregoing
    businesses are principally conducted by various subsidiaries and
    affiliates of Warner Bros. Entertainment Inc., known
    collectively as the Warner Bros. Entertainment Group
    (“Warner Bros.”), and New Line Cinema Corporation
    (“New Line”).


 



    Feature
    Films


 



    Warner
    Bros.


 


    Warner Bros. produces feature films both wholly on its own and
    under co-financing arrangements with others, and also
    distributes its films and completed films produced by others.
    The terms of Warner Bros.’ agreements with independent
    producers and other entities are separately negotiated and vary
    depending upon the production, the amount and type of financing
    by Warner Bros., the media and territories covered, the
    distribution term and other factors. Warner Bros.’ feature
    films are produced under both the Warner Bros. Pictures and
    Castle Rock banners, and also by Warner Independent Pictures
    (“WIP”).


 


    Warner Bros.’ strategy focuses on offering a diverse slate
    of films with a mix of genres, talent and budgets that includes
    several “event” movies per year. In response to the
    high cost of producing theatrical films, Warner Bros. has
    entered into certain film co-financing arrangements with other
    companies, decreasing its financial risk while in most cases
    retaining substantially all worldwide distribution rights.
    During 2006, Warner Bros. released a total of 28 original
    motion pictures for theatrical exhibition (including WIP
    releases), including Happy Feet, The Departed and
    Superman Returns. Of the total 2006 releases, four were
    wholly financed by Warner Bros. and 24 were financed with or by
    others.


 


    Warner Bros. has co-financing arrangements with Village Roadshow
    Pictures, Legendary Pictures, LLC and Virtual Studios, LLC.
    Additionally, Warner Bros. has an exclusive distribution
    arrangement with Alcon Entertainment for distribution of all of
    Alcon’s motion pictures in domestic and certain
    international territories. During 2006, Warner Bros. entered
    into an exclusive multi-year distribution agreement with Dark
    Castle Holdings, LLC, under which Warner Bros. will distribute
    Dark Castle’s next 15 feature films in the U.S. and,
    generally, in all international territories. Each of these
    feature films will be 100% financed by Dark Castle.


 


    WIP produces or acquires smaller budget and alternative films
    for domestic
    and/or
    worldwide release. WIP released eight films during 2006,
    including The Painted Veil and A Scanner Darkly.


 


    Warner Bros. distributes feature films to more than 125
    international territories. In 2006, Warner Bros. released
    internationally 20
    English-language
    motion pictures and 32
    local-language
    films that it either produced or acquired.


 



    New
    Line Cinema


 


    Theatrical films are also produced and distributed by New Line,
    a leading independent producer and distributor of theatrical
    motion pictures. Included in its 11 films released during 2006
    were Little Children; Texas Chainsaw Massacre, The Beginning
    and Final Destination 3. During 2005, New Line and
    Home Box Office formed Picturehouse, a jointly-owned
    theatrical distribution company, to produce and distribute
    independent films. This venture released six films in 2006,
    including the critically acclaimed Pan’s Labyrinth
    and A Prairie Home Companion. Like Warner Bros., New
    Line releases a diversified slate of films with an emphasis on
    building and leveraging franchises. As part of its strategy for
    reducing financial risk and dealing with the rising cost of film
    production, New Line typically pre-sells the international
    rights to its releases on a
    territory-by-territory
    basis, while still retaining a share of each film’s
    potential profitability in those foreign territories. New Line
    also has entered into a co-financing transaction arranged by The
    Royal Bank of Scotland which covers approximately two years of
    its films, beginning in February, 2007.



    
    11



Table of Contents



 



    Home
    Video


 


    Warner Home Video, a division of Warner Bros. Home Entertainment
    Inc. (“WHV”), distributes for home video use DVDs
    containing filmed entertainment product produced or otherwise
    acquired by the Company’s various content-producing
    subsidiaries and divisions, including Warner Bros. Pictures,
    Warner Bros. Television, Castle Rock, New Line, Home
    Box Office and Turner Broadcasting System. In addition to
    the creation of DVDs from new content generated by the Company,
    WHV produces and distributes DVDs from the Company’s
    extensive filmed entertainment library of thousands of feature
    films, television titles and animated titles. WHV also
    distributes other companies’ product, including DVDs for
    BBC, National Geographic and national sports leagues in the
    U.S., and has similar distribution relationships with producers
    outside the U.S.


 


    WHV sells
    and/or
    licenses its product in the U.S. and in major international
    territories to retailers
    and/or
    wholesalers through its own sales force, with warehousing and
    fulfillment handled by third parties. In some countries,
    WHV’s product is distributed through licensees. WHV
    distributes packaged media product in the standard-definition
    DVD format and in the HD DVD and Blu-ray high-definition
    formats. DVD product is replicated by third parties, with
    replication for the U.S., Canada, Europe and Mexico provided for
    under a long-term contract. Significant WHV releases during 2006
    include Superman Returns, Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire
    and Wedding Crashers.


 



    Television


 


    Warner Bros. is one of the world’s leading suppliers of
    television programming, distributing programming in more than
    200 foreign territories and in more than 45 languages.
    Warner Bros. both develops and produces new television series,
    made-for-television
    movies, mini-series, reality-based entertainment shows and
    animation programs and also licenses programming from the Warner
    Bros. library for exhibition on media all over the world.


 


    Warner Bros.’ television programming is primarily produced
    by Warner Bros. Television, a division of WB Studio Enterprises
    Inc. (“WBTV”), which produces primetime dramatic and
    comedy programming for the major networks and for cable; Warner
    Horizon Television Inc. (“Warner Horizon”), which
    specializes in unscripted programming for network television as
    well as scripted and unscripted programming for cable
    television; and Telepictures Productions Inc.
    (“Telepictures”), which specializes in reality-based
    and talk/variety series for the syndication and daytime markets.
    For the
    2006-07
    season, WBTV is producing, among others, Gilmore Girls,
    Smallville and Supernatural for The CW Network and
    ER, Two and a Half Men, Without a Trace, Cold Case,
    Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip and The New Adventures
    of Old Christine for third-party networks. Warner Horizon
    produces the primetime reality series The Bachelor.
    Telepictures produces first-run syndication staples such as
    Extra and the talk shows The Ellen DeGeneres Show
    and Tyra.


 


    Warner Bros. Animation Inc. (“WBAI”) is responsible
    for the creation, development and production of contemporary
    animated television programming, original
    made-for-DVD
    releases, including the popular Scooby Doo and Tom and
    Jerry series. WBAI also oversees the creative use of, and
    production of animated programming based on, classic animated
    characters from Warner Bros., including Looney Tunes, and
    from the Hanna-Barbera and DC Comics libraries.


 



    Digital
    Media


 


    For online audiences, Telepictures launched TMZ.com, a joint
    venture with AOL, in December 2005 to create a new ad-supported
    celebrity and entertainment news destination on the Internet.
    TMZ.com has become the number-one entertainment news site,
    according to comScore Media Metrix. Warner Bros. licenses
    television content to AOL for In2TV.com, a pioneer broadband
    network launched in March 2006 that streams episodes from
    classic television series such as Lois and Clark: The New
    Adventures of Superman and Welcome Back, Kotter in an
    ad-supported environment on the Internet. The Warner Bros.
    Television Group (“WBTVG”) recently established a
    digital production venture, named Studio 2.0, that works with
    creative talent and advertisers to create original live-action
    and animated short-form programming for broadband and wireless
    devices. For the
    2006-07
    broadcast season, WBTVG entered into digital distribution
    agreements with the ABC, CBS, NBC and The CW television
    networks, giving each network the right to offer via
    video-on-demand
    or subscription
    video-on-demand
    episodes of



    
    12



Table of Contents




    certain currently airing television series for a limited time
    following the initial network broadcast. The agreements grant
    Warner Bros. permanent download rights once an episode has aired
    on the network.


 


    Warner Bros. Digital Distribution is developing other new
    business opportunities for the digital delivery of movies and
    television programming to consumers via online and wireless
    services, including licensing arrangements with Apple’s
    iTunes, Wal-Mart, Amazon, Best Buy, Microsoft for Xbox 360,
    BitTorrent, Inc., AOL, Netflix and arvato mobile in Germany.


 



    Other
    Entertainment Assets


 


    Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment, a division of Warner
    Bros. Home Entertainment Inc., licenses and produces interactive
    games for a variety of platforms based on Warner Bros.’ and
    DC Comics’ properties, as well as original game properties.


 


    Warner Bros. Consumer Products Inc. licenses rights in both
    domestic and international markets to the names, likenesses,
    images, logos and other representations of characters and
    copyrighted material from the films and television series
    produced or distributed by Warner Bros., including the superhero
    characters of DC Comics, Hanna-Barbera characters, classic films
    and Looney Tunes.


 


    Warner Bros. and CBS each have a 50% interest in The CW
    Network, a new broadcast network launched at the beginning of
    the Fall 2006 broadcast season. For additional information, see
    “Networks,” below.


 


    Warner Bros. International Cinemas Inc. holds interests, either
    wholly owned or through joint ventures, in 84 multi-screen
    cinema complexes with over 64 screens in Japan, Italy and
    the U.S.


 


    DC Comics, wholly owned by the Company, publishes more than 50
    regularly issued comics magazines and graphic novels featuring
    such popular characters as Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman
    and The Sandman. DC Comics also derives revenues from
    motion pictures, television, product licensing and books. The
    Company also owns E.C. Publications, Inc., the publisher of
    MAD magazine.


 



    Competition


 


    The production and distribution of theatrical motion pictures,
    television and animation product and DVDs are highly competitive
    businesses, as each vies with the other, as well as with other
    forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including
    video games, the Internet and other computer-related activities
    for consumers’ attention. Furthermore, there is increased
    competition in the television industry evidenced by the
    increasing number and variety of broadcast networks and basic
    cable and pay television services now available. Despite this
    increasing variety of networks and services, access to primetime
    and syndicated television slots has actually tightened as
    networks and owned and operated stations increasingly source
    programming from content producers aligned with or owned by
    their parent companies. There is active competition among all
    production companies in these industries for the services of
    producers, directors, writers, actors and others and for the
    acquisition of literary properties. With respect to the
    distribution of television product, there is significant
    competition from independent distributors as well as major
    studios. Revenues for filmed entertainment product depend in
    part upon general economic conditions, but the competitive
    position of a producer or distributor is still greatly affected
    by the quality of, and public response to, the entertainment
    product it makes available to the marketplace.


 


    Warner Bros. also competes in its character merchandising and
    other licensing activities with other licensors of character,
    brand and celebrity names.


 



    NETWORKS


 


    The Company’s Networks business consists principally of
    domestic and international basic cable networks and pay
    television programming services. The basic cable networks
    (collectively, the “Turner Networks”) owned by Turner
    Broadcasting System, Inc. (“Turner”) constitute the
    Company’s basic cable networks. Pay television programming
    consists of the multichannel HBO and Cinemax pay television
    programming services (collectively, the “Home
    Box Office Services”) operated by Home
    Box Office, Inc.



    
    13



Table of Contents



 


    The programming of the Turner Networks and the Home
    Box Office Services (collectively, the “Cable
    Networks”) is distributed via cable, satellite and other
    distribution technologies.


 


    The Turner Networks generate their revenue principally from the
    sale of advertising (other than Turner Classic Movies, which
    sells advertising only in certain European markets) and from
    receipt of monthly subscriber fees paid by cable system
    operators, satellite distribution services, hotels and other
    customers (known as affiliates) that have contracted to receive
    and distribute such networks. Because it does not carry
    advertising, Turner Classic Movies generates most of its revenue
    from the monthly fees paid by affiliates, which are generally
    charged on a per subscriber basis. The Home Box Office
    Services generate revenue principally from fees paid by
    affiliates for the delivery of the Home Box Office Services
    to subscribers, who are generally free to cancel their
    subscriptions at any time. Home Box Office’s
    agreements with its affiliates are typically long-term
    arrangements that provide for annual service fee increases and
    retail promotion activities and have fee arrangements that are
    generally related to the number of subscribers served by the
    affiliate. The Home Box Office Services and their
    affiliates engage in ongoing marketing and promotional
    activities to retain existing subscribers and acquire new
    subscribers. Home Box Office also derives revenues from its
    original films and series through the sale of DVDs, as well as,
    in recent years, from its licensing of original programming in
    syndication and to basic cable channels.


 


    Although the Cable Networks believe prospects of continued
    carriage and marketing of their respective networks by the
    larger affiliates are good, the loss of one or more of them as
    distributors of any individual network or service could have a
    material adverse effect on their respective businesses. In
    addition, further consolidation of multiple-system cable
    operators could adversely impact the Cable Networks’
    prospects for securing future carriage agreements on
    commercially reasonable terms, or at all.


 


    Advertising revenues consist of consumer advertising, which is
    sold primarily on a national basis in the U.S. and on a
    local-language
    feed basis outside the U.S. Advertising contracts generally
    have terms of one year or less. Advertising revenue is generated
    from a wide variety of categories, including food and beverage,
    financial and business services, entertainment, pharmaceuticals
    and medical and automotive. Advertising revenue is a function of
    the size and demographics of the audience delivered, the
    “CPM,” which is the cost per thousand viewers
    delivered, and the number of units of time sold. Units sold and
    CPMs are influenced by the quantitative and qualitative
    characteristics of the audience of each network as well as
    overall advertiser demand in the marketplace.


 



    Turner
    Networks


 



    Domestic
    Networks


 


    Turner’s entertainment networks include two general
    entertainment networks, TBS, with approximately
    91.5 million U.S. households as of December 31,
    2006, as reported by Nielsen Media Research
    (“households”); and TNT, with approximately
    92.0 million households in the U.S. as of
    December 31, 2006; as well as Cartoon Network (including
    Adult Swim, its overnight block of contemporary animation
    aimed at adults), with approximately 90.9 million
    households in the U.S. as of December 31, 2006; Turner
    Classic Movies, a commercial-free network presenting classic
    films, which had approximately 76.1 million households in
    the U.S. as of December 31, 2006, and Boomerang, an
    animation network featuring classic cartoons. Programming for
    these entertainment networks is derived, in part, from the
    Company’s film,
    made-for-television
    and animation libraries to which Turner or other divisions of
    the Company own the copyrights, plus licensed programming,
    including sports, and original films and series. Turner South, a
    Southeast regional entertainment network, was sold in May 2006.


 


    For its sports programming, Turner has licensed programming
    rights from the National Basketball Association to televise a
    certain number of regular season and playoff games on TNT
    through the
    2007-08
    season and has also secured rights to televise certain NASCAR
    Nextel Cup races from 2007 through 2014. TBS televises Atlanta
    Braves baseball games, for which rights fee payments are made to
    Major League Baseball’s central fund for distribution to
    all Major League Baseball clubs. Turner has also licensed
    programming rights from Major League Baseball to televise a
    certain number of regular season and playoff games on TBS
    beginning with the 2007 playoffs and continuing through the 2013
    season. Through a wholly owned subsidiary, Turner owns the
    Atlanta Braves of Major League Baseball, but has signed a
    non-binding letter of intent to sell the team to Liberty Media
    Corporation and has submitted documents relating to the proposed
    transfer of the Atlanta Braves franchise to Major League
    Baseball.



    
    14



Table of Contents




    Any sale of a major league baseball team requires the prior
    approval of the league. For further information regarding the
    proposed transaction, see “Management’s Discussion and
    Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.”


 


    Turner’s CNN and Headline News networks,
    24-hour per
    day cable television news services, reached approximately
    92.0 million households and 91.3 million households in
    the U.S., respectively, as of December 31, 2006. Together
    with CNN International (“CNNI”), CNN reached more than
    200 countries and territories as of December 31, 2006. CNN
    operates 36 news bureaus, of which 10 are located in the U.S.
    and 26 are located around the world.


 


    During 2006, the Company acquired from Liberty Media the
    remaining 50% interest in Court TV that it did not already own
    and, as a result, Court TV is now wholly owned by the Company
    and managed by Turner. Court TV, with approximately
    87.5 million households in the U.S. as of
    December 31, 2006, is an advertiser-supported basic cable
    television service broadcasting live trial coverage by day and
    original programs such as Forensic Files and Psychic
    Detectives and
    off-network
    series in the evening.


 



    International
    Networks


 


    Entertainment and news networks are distributed via a network of
    20 regional satellites to multiple distribution platforms such
    as cable and IPTV systems, satellite platforms, mobile operators
    and broadcasters for delivery to hotels and other viewers around
    the world.


 


    The entertainment networks distribute approximately 47
    region-specific versions and
    local-language
    feeds of Cartoon Network, Boomerang, Turner Classic Movies and
    TNT in over 167 countries around the world. In the U.K. and
    Ireland, Turner distributes Toonami, an all-action animation
    network. In addition, Turner distributes Pogo (an entertainment
    network for children) in India and certain other South Asian
    territories.


 


    CNN Headline News is distributed in the Asia Pacific region and
    Latin America; CNN en Español is a separate Spanish
    language all-news network distributed primarily in Latin
    America; and CNNj is an all-news network in Japan.


 


    In a number of regions, Turner has launched
    local-language
    versions of its channels through joint ventures with local
    partners. These include CNN+, a Spanish
    language 24-hour
    news network distributed in Spain and Andorra; CNN Turk, a
    Turkish
    language 24-hour
    news network available in Turkey and the Netherlands; Cartoon
    Network Japan and Cartoon Network Korea (launched in November
    2006), both
    local-language 24-hour
    channels for kids; and BOING, an Italian
    language 24-hour
    kids animation network. CNN is distributed through CNN-IBN, a
    co-branded,
    24-hour,
    English-language
    general news and current affairs channel in India. Turner also
    has interests in services in China (CETV).


 



    Internet
    Sites


 


    In addition to its cable networks, Turner manages various
    Internet sites that generate revenue from commercial advertising
    and consumer subscription fees. CNN has multiple sites,
    including CNN.com and several localized editions that operate in
    Turner’s international markets. CNN also operates Pipeline,
    a broadband news service available via subscription in 44
    countries. CNN also operates CNNMoney.com in
    collaboration with Time Inc.’s Money Magazine.
    Turner also operates the NASCAR website, NASCAR.com, pursuant to
    an agreement with NASCAR through 2008, with options to extend
    through 2012, and the PGA’s and PGA Tour’s websites,
    PGA.com and PGATour.com, respectively, pursuant to agreements
    with the PGA and the PGA Tour through 2011. Turner operates
    CartoonNetwork.com, a popular advertiser-supported site in the
    U.S., as well as 36 international sites affiliated with the
    regional children’s services feeds. Turner has introduced
    GameTap, a
    direct-to-consumer
    broadband subscription-based gaming service offering access to
    over 700 classic and contemporary video games. In 2006, Turner
    launched VeryFunnyAds.com featuring comic TV commercials from
    around the world, and also ACC Select, a broadband subscription
    service providing Atlantic Coast Conference basketball games and
    other college sports.



    
    15



Table of Contents



 



    Home
    Box Office


 


    HBO, operated by Home Box Office, Inc., is the
    nation’s most widely distributed pay television service.
    Including HBO’s sister service, Cinemax, the Home
    Box Office Services had approximately 40.5 million
    subscriptions as of December 31, 2006. Both HBO and Cinemax
    are made available on a number of multiplex channels and in high
    definition. Home Box Office also offers subscription
    video-on-demand
    products which enable digital cable subscribers who subscribe to
    the Home Box Office Services to view programs at a time of
    their choice.


 


    A major portion of the programming on HBO and Cinemax consists
    of recently released, uncut and uncensored theatrical motion
    pictures. Home Box Office’s practice has been to
    negotiate licensing agreements of varying duration with major
    motion picture studios and independent producers and
    distributors in order to ensure continued access to such films.
    These agreements typically grant pay television exhibition
    rights to recently released and certain older films owned by the
    particular studio, producer or distributor in exchange for
    negotiated fees, which may be a function of, among other things,
    the box office performances of the films.


 


    HBO is also defined by its award-winning original dramatic and
    comedy series, movies and mini-series such as The Sopranos,
    Entourage, Rome, Curb Your Enthusiasm and
    Elizabeth I, and boxing matches and sports news
    programs, as well as comedy specials, family programming and
    documentaries. In 2006, among other awards, HBO won 26 Primetime
    Emmys® —
    the most of any network — as well as seven Sports
    Emmys®.


 


    HBO also generates revenue from the exploitation of its original
    programming through multiple distribution outlets. HBO Video
    markets a variety of HBO’s original programming on DVD. HBO
    licenses its original series, such as The Sopranos and
    Sex and the City, to basic cable channels and has
    licensed Sex and the City in syndication. The Home
    Box Office-produced show Everybody Loves Raymond,
    which aired for nine seasons on broadcast television, is
    currently in syndication as well. Home Box Office has
    entered into agreements with Cingular Wireless and Vodafone for
    the distribution of HBO content on their respective domestic and
    international mobile services. In addition, through various
    joint ventures, HBO-branded services are distributed in more
    than 50 countries in Latin America, Asia and Central Europe.


 



    The CW
    Network


 


    At the beginning of the Fall 2006 broadcast season, Warner Bros.
    and CBS launched a new fifth broadcast network, The CW Network.
    The new broadcast network is a
    50-50 joint
    venture between Warner Bros. and CBS and is being accounted for
    by the Company as an equity investee. The WB Network, 77.75%
    owned by a Warner Bros. subsidiary which operated for the past
    11 years, ceased operations in conjunction with the launch
    of the new network and The WB Network’s partnership with
    Tribune Broadcasting was dissolved.


 


    The CW’s scheduling model includes, among other things, a
    six night-13 hour primetime lineup with programming such as
    America’s Next Top Model, Gilmore Girls, Everybody Hates
    Chris, Smallville and 7th Heaven, as well as a
    five-hour
    animated programming block of children’s programming on
    Saturday mornings. The CW is carried nationally by affiliated
    television stations covering approximately 94% of
    U.S. television households. Among the affiliates of The CW
    are 14 stations owned by Tribune and 11 CBS-owned stations.


 



    Competition


 


    Each of the Networks competes with other television programming
    services for marketing and distribution by cable and other
    distribution systems. Each of the Networks also compete for
    viewers’ attention and audience share with all other forms
    of programming provided to viewers, including broadcast
    networks, local
    over-the-air
    television stations, other pay and basic cable television
    services, home video,
    pay-per-view
    and
    video-on-demand
    services, online activities and other forms of news, information
    and entertainment. In addition, the Networks face competition
    for programming from those same commercial television networks,
    independent stations, and pay and basic cable television
    services, some of which have exclusive contracts with motion
    picture studios and independent motion picture distributors.
    Each of the Turner Networks, The CW Network and Turner’s
    Internet sites compete for advertising with numerous direct
    competitors and other media.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 


    The Cable Networks’ production divisions compete with other
    producers and distributors of programs for air time on broadcast
    networks, independent commercial television stations, and pay
    and basic cable television networks.


 



    PUBLISHING


 


    The Company’s magazine publishing business is conducted
    primarily by Time Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the
    Company, either directly or through its subsidiaries. In
    addition, Time Inc. operates certain direct-marketing and
    direct-selling businesses.


 



    Magazines


 


    As of December 31, 2006, Time Inc. published over
    145 magazines worldwide, with over 40 in the U.S. and
    over 100 in other countries. These magazines generally appeal to
    the broad consumer market and include People, Sports
    Illustrated, In Style, Southern Living, Real Simple,
    Entertainment Weekly, Time, Cooking Light, Fortune and
    What’s On TV. In addition, Time Inc. websites, such
    as CNNMoney.com, SI.com and People.com,
    reached approximately 18 million unique users on average
    each month in the second half of 2006, according to comScore
    Media Metrix. Time Inc. reached agreement in January 2007 with a
    subsidiary of Bonnier AB, a Swedish media company, for the sale
    of its Time4 Media and Parenting magazine groups, consisting of
    18 of Time Inc.’s smaller niche magazines. The sale is
    expected to close in the first quarter of 2007.


 


    Time Inc. expands its magazine businesses generally through the
    development of product extensions, new magazines and licensed
    international editions. Product extensions are generally managed
    by the individual magazines and involve, among other things, new
    magazines launches, specialized editions aimed at particular
    audiences, and the development of new editorial content for
    different media, such as the Internet, books and television.
    Many of Time Inc.’s magazine brands have developed websites
    to publish content new to Internet audiences as well as content
    from the magazines.


 



    Description
    of Magazines


 


    Generally, each magazine published by Time Inc. in the
    U.S. has an editorial staff under the supervision of a
    managing editor and a business staff under the management of a
    president or publisher. Magazine production and distribution
    activities are generally centralized. Fulfillment activities for
    Time Inc.’s U.S. magazines are generally administered
    from a centralized facility in Tampa, Florida.


 


    Time Inc.’s major magazines and websites are described
    below:


 


    People is a weekly magazine that reports on celebrities
    and other newsworthy individuals. People generated
    approximately 15% of Time Inc.’s revenues in 2006.
    People has expanded its franchise to include People en
    Español, a monthly
    Spanish-language
    magazine aimed primarily at U.S. Hispanic readers. Who
    Weekly is an Australian version of People managed by
    IPC Media, Time Inc.’s consumer magazine publisher in the
    U.K. People.com is a leading website for celebrity news,
    photos and entertainment coverage.


 


    Sports Illustrated is a weekly magazine that covers
    sports. Sports Illustrated for Kids is a monthly sports
    magazine intended primarily for pre-teenagers. Golf, a
    leading monthly golf title, is managed by the Sports Illustrated
    group. SI.com is a news website that provides
    up-to-the-minute
    scores and sports news 24/7, as well as statistics and analysis
    of domestic and international professional sports, and also
    college and high school sports.


 


    In Style is a monthly magazine and InStyle.com is
    a website focusing on celebrity, lifestyle, beauty and fashion.
    Time Inc. also publishes In Style in Australia, the U.K.
    and Mexico through wholly owned subsidiaries.


 


    Real Simple is a monthly magazine that focuses on life,
    home, body and soul and provides practical solutions for
    simplifying various aspects of busy lives. In addition, Real
    Simple launched a weekly television series on PBS in 2006.


 


    Entertainment Weekly is a weekly magazine, and its
    related EW.com is a daily news website, that feature
    reviews and reports on movies, DVDs, video, television, music
    and books.



    
    17



Table of Contents



 


    Time is a weekly newsmagazine that summarizes the news
    and interprets the week’s events, both national and
    international. Time also has four weekly
    English-language
    editions that circulate outside the United States. Time for
    Kids is a weekly current events newsmagazine for children,
    ages 5 to 13. TIME.com provides breaking news
    and analysis, giving its readers access to its
    24-hour
    global news gathering operation and its vast archive.


 


    Fortune is a
    bi-weekly
    magazine that reports on worldwide economic and business
    developments and compiles the annual Fortune 500 list of the
    largest U.S. corporations. Other business and financial
    magazines include Money, a monthly magazine that reports
    primarily on personal finance, FSB: Fortune Small
    Business, a monthly magazine that covers small business and
    is published under an agreement with American Express Publishing
    Corporation, and Business 2.0, a monthly magazine
    that reports on innovation in the worlds of business and
    technology. All of these magazines combine their resources on
    the CNNMoney.com website, a joint venture with CNN.


 


    IPC Media, the U.K.’s leading consumer magazine publisher,
    publishes over 80 magazines as well as numerous special issues
    and guides in the U.K. and Australia. These publications are
    largely focused in the television listings, women’s
    lifestyle, celebrity, home and garden, leisure, music and
    men’s lifestyle sectors. IPC’s magazines include
    What’s On TV and TV Times in the television
    listings sector, Chat, Woman and Woman’s Own
    in the women’s lifestyle sector, Now in the
    celebrity sector, Woman & Home and Ideal Home
    in the home and garden sector, Country Life and
    Horse & Hound in the leisure sector, NME
    in the music sector and Nuts and Loaded in the
    men’s lifestyle sector. In addition, IPC publishes four
    magazines through three unconsolidated joint ventures with
    Groupe Marie Claire.


 


    Southern Progress Corporation publishes seven monthly magazines,
    including the regional lifestyle magazines Southern Living
    and Sunset, the epicurean magazine Cooking Light
    and the women’s fitness magazine Health.


 


    This Old House publishes This Old House magazine and
    produces two television series, This Old House and Ask
    This Old House.


 


    Essence Communications Inc. publishes Essence magazine
    and produces the annual Essence Music Festival.


 


    Grupo Editorial Expansión (“GEE”) publishes
    14 consumer and business magazines in Mexico including
    Expansión, a business magazine; Quién, a
    celebrity and personality magazine; Obras, an
    architecture, construction and engineering magazine; Life and
    Style, a men’s lifestyle magazine; and Balance,
    a fitness, health and nutrition magazine for women. In addition,
    GEE publishes two magazines through an unconsolidated joint
    venture with Hachette Filipacchi Presse S.A.


 


    In addition, Time Inc. licenses over 20 editions of its
    magazines for publication outside the U.S. to publishers in
    over 10 countries.


 


    Time Inc. also has responsibility under a management contract
    for the American Express Publishing Corporation’s
    publishing operations, including its lifestyle magazines
    Travel & Leisure, Food & Wine and
    Departures.


 



    Advertising


 


    Advertising carried in Time Inc.’s U.S. magazines is
    predominantly consumer advertising, including toiletries and
    cosmetics, food, domestic and foreign automobiles,
    pharmaceuticals, retail and department stores, media and movies,
    direct response, financial services, apparel and computers and
    technology. In 2006, Time Inc. magazines accounted for 22.6%
    (compared to 23.4% in 2005) of the total
    U.S. advertising revenue in consumer magazines, excluding
    Life and other newspaper supplements, as measured by the
    Publishers Information Bureau (PIB). People, Time and
    Sports Illustrated were ranked 1, 3 and 4,
    respectively, by PIB revenue in 2006, and Time Inc. had 7 of the
    25 leading magazines in terms of advertising dollars.


 



    Circulation


 


    Through the sale of magazines to consumers, circulation
    generates significant revenues for Time Inc. In addition,
    circulation is an important component in determining Time
    Inc.’s print advertising revenues because advertising page
    rates are based on circulation and readership. Most of Time
    Inc.’s U.S. magazines are sold primarily by
    subscription and delivered to subscribers through the mail.
    Subscriptions are sold primarily through



    
    18



Table of Contents




    direct mail and online solicitation, subscription sales agents,
    marketing agreements with other companies and insert cards in
    Time Inc. magazines and other publications. Most of Time
    Inc.’s international magazines are sold primarily at
    newsstand.


 


    Time Inc. owns 100% of Synapse Group, Inc.
    (“Synapse”), a leading seller of magazine
    subscriptions to Time Inc. magazines and magazines of other
    publishers in the U.S., having acquired in April 2006 the
    remaining 8% of Synapse that it did not already own. Synapse
    sells magazine subscriptions principally through marketing
    relationships with credit card issuers, consumer catalog
    companies, commercial airlines with frequent flier programs,
    retailers and Internet businesses.


 


    Newsstand sales of magazines, which are reported as a component
    of Subscription revenues, are sold through traditional
    newsstands as well as other retail outlets such as Wal-Mart,
    supermarkets and convenience and drug stores, and may or may not
    result in repeat purchases. Time/Warner Retail Sales &
    Marketing Inc. distributes and markets copies of Time Inc.
    magazines and books and certain other publishers’ magazines
    and books through third-party wholesalers primarily in the U.S.
    and Canada. Wholesalers, in turn, sell Time Inc. magazines to
    retailers. Marketforce (UK) Ltd distributes and markets copies
    of all IPC magazines, some international Time Inc. editions and
    certain other publishers’ magazines outside of the U.S. and
    Canada through third-party wholesalers to retail outlets.


 



    Paper
    and Printing


 


    Paper constitutes a significant component of physical costs in
    the production of magazines. During 2006, Time Inc. purchased
    over half a million tons of paper principally from four
    independent manufacturers.


 


    Printing and binding for Time Inc. magazines are performed
    primarily by major domestic and international independent
    printing concerns in multiple locations in the U.S. and in nine
    other countries. Magazine printing contracts are typically
    fixed-term at fixed prices with, in some cases, adjustments
    based on inflation.


 



    Books,
    Direct Marketing and Selling


 


    Through subsidiaries, Time Inc. conducts direct-marketing and
    direct-selling businesses as well as certain niche book
    publishing. In addition to selling magazine subscriptions,
    Synapse is a direct marketer of consumer products, including
    jewelry and other merchandise.


 


    The Company’s book publishing business consists of Oxmoor
    House, Leisure Arts and Sunset Books, which are operated by
    Southern Progress Corporation and publish how-to, lifestyle and
    special commemorative books. During 2006, the Company completed
    the sale of the trade book publishing operations conducted by
    the Time Warner Book Group Inc. to Hachette for
    $524 million.


 


    Southern Living At Home, the direct selling division of Southern
    Progress Corporation, specializes in home décor products
    that are sold in the U.S. through more than 35,000
    independent consultants at parties hosted in people’s homes.


 


    Book-of-the-Month
    Club, Inc. (“BOMC”) has a
    50-50 joint
    venture with Bertelsmann’s Doubleday Direct, Inc. to
    operate the U.S. book clubs of BOMC and Doubleday jointly.
    The joint venture, named Bookspan, acquires the rights to
    manufacture and sell books to consumers through clubs. Bookspan
    operates its own fulfillment and warehousing operations in
    Pennsylvania. Under the relevant agreements, commencing in
    January of each year either Bertelsmann or the Company may elect
    to terminate the venture by giving notice during specified
    termination periods. If such an election is made by either
    party, a confidential bid process will take place pursuant to
    which the highest bidder will purchase the other party’s
    entire venture interest.


 



    Postal
    Rates


 


    Postal costs represent a significant operating expense for the
    Company’s magazine publishing and direct-marketing
    activities. In 2006, the Company spent over $350 million
    for services provided by the U.S. Postal Service. The
    U.S. Postal Service implemented a postal rate increase of
    5.4% effective January 8, 2006 and has



    
    19



Table of Contents




    proposed an additional increase of approximately 10% effective
    May 6, 2007, which is currently being challenged before the
    Postal Rate Commission. These increased costs are not directly
    passed on to magazine subscribers. Time Inc. strives to minimize
    postal expense through the use of certain cost-saving activities
    with respect to address quality, mail preparation and delivery
    of products to postal facilities.


 



    Competition


 


    Time Inc. faces significant competition from several direct
    competitors and other media, including the Internet. Time
    Inc.’s magazine operations compete for circulation and
    audience with numerous other magazine publishers and other
    media. Time Inc.’s magazine operations also compete with
    other magazine publishers and other media for advertising
    directed at the general public and at more focused demographic
    groups. The magazine publishing business presents few barriers
    to entry and many new magazines are launched annually. In recent
    years, competitors launched
    and/or
    repositioned many magazines, primarily in the celebrity and
    women’s service sectors, that compete directly with
    People, In Style, Real Simple and other Time Inc.
    magazines, particularly at newsstand checkouts in mass-market
    retailers. Time Inc. anticipates that it will face continuing
    competition from these new competitors and additional
    competitors may enter the magazine business and further
    intensify competition.


 


    Time Inc.’s direct-marketing operations compete with other
    direct marketers through all media, including the Internet, for
    the consumer’s attention.


 



    INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY


 


    Time Warner Inc. is one of the world’s leading creators,
    owners and distributors of intellectual property. The
    Company’s vast intellectual property assets include
    copyrights in motion pictures, television programs, books,
    magazines and software; trademarks in names, logos and
    characters; patents or patent applications for inventions
    related to its products and services; and licenses of
    intellectual property rights of various kinds. These
    intellectual property assets, both in the U.S. and in other
    countries around the world, are among the Company’s most
    valuable assets. The Company derives value from these assets
    through a range of business models, including the theatrical
    release of films, the licensing of its films and television
    programming to multiple domestic and international television
    and cable networks and pay television services, and the sale of
    products such as DVDs and magazines. It also derives revenues
    related to its intellectual property through advertising in its
    magazines, networks, cable systems and online services and from
    various types of licensing activities, including licensing of
    its trademarks and characters. To protect these assets, the
    Company relies on a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair
    competition, patent and trade secret laws and contract
    provisions. The duration of the protection afforded to the
    Company’s intellectual property depends on the type of
    property in question and the laws and regulations of the
    relevant jurisdiction; in the case of licenses, it also depends
    on contractual
    and/or
    statutory provisions.


 


    The Company vigorously pursues all appropriate avenues of
    protection for its intellectual property. However, there can be
    no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be
    successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the
    Company’s intellectual property is often difficult and the
    steps taken may not in every case prevent misappropriation.
    Piracy, particularly in the digital environment, continues to
    present a threat to revenues from products and services based on
    intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit that threat
    through a combination of approaches, including offering
    legitimate market alternatives, applying digital rights
    management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for
    infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives, and
    enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of
    intellectual property. The Company works with various
    cross-industry groups and trade associations, as well as with
    strategic partners to develop and implement technological
    solutions to control digital piracy.


 


    Third parties may bring intellectual property infringement
    claims or challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s
    intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges
    could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property
    rights. In addition, domestic and international laws, statutes
    and regulations are constantly changing, and the Company’s
    assets may be either adversely or beneficially affected by such
    changes. Moreover, effective intellectual property protection
    may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign
    territories. The



    
    20



Table of Contents




    Company therefore engages in efforts to strengthen and update
    intellectual property protection around the world, including
    efforts to ensure effective and appropriately tailored remedies
    for infringement.


 



    REGULATORY
    MATTERS


 


    The Company’s cable system, cable and broadcast television
    network, original programming and Internet businesses are
    subject, in part, to regulation by the Federal Communications
    Commission (“FCC”), and the cable system business is
    also subject to regulation by most local and some state
    governments where the Company has cable systems. In addition,
    the Company’s cable business is subject to compliance with
    the terms of the Memorandum Opinion and Order issued by the FCC
    in July 2006 in connection with the regulatory clearance of the
    Adelphia/Comcast Transactions (the “Adelphia/Comcast
    Transactions Order”). The Company’s magazine and other
    direct marketing activities are also subject to regulation.


 


    The following is a summary of the terms of these orders as well
    as current significant federal, state and local laws and
    regulations affecting the growth and operation of these
    businesses. In addition, various legislative and regulatory
    proposals under consideration from time to time by Congress and
    various federal agencies have in the past materially affected,
    and may in the future materially affect, the Company.


 



    Cable
    System Regulation


 



    Adelphia/Comcast
    Transactions Order


 


    In the Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order, the FCC imposed
    conditions on TWC related to regional sports networks
    (“RSNs”), as defined in the Adelphia/Comcast
    Transactions Order, and the resolution of disputes pursuant to
    the FCC’s leased access regulations. In particular, the
    Adelphia/Comcast Transactions Order provides that
    (i) neither TWC nor its affiliates may offer an affiliated
    RSN on an exclusive basis to any multichannel video programming
    distributor (“MVPD”); (ii) TWC may not unduly or
    improperly influence the decision of any affiliated RSN to sell
    programming to an unaffiliated MVPD; or the prices, terms and
    conditions of sale of programming by an affiliated RSN to an
    unaffiliated MVPD; (iii) if an MVPD and an affiliated RSN
    cannot reach an agreement on the terms and conditions of
    carriage, the MVPD may elect commercial arbitration to resolve
    the dispute; (iv) if an unaffiliated RSN is denied carriage
    by TWC, it may elect commercial arbitration to resolve the
    dispute in accordance with federal and FCC rules; and
    (v) with respect to leased access, if an unaffiliated
    programmer is unable to reach an agreement with TWC, that
    programmer may elect commercial arbitration to resolve the
    dispute, with the arbitrator being required to resolve the
    dispute using the FCC’s existing rate formula relating to
    pricing terms.


 


    The application and scope of these conditions, which will expire
    in July 2012, have not yet been tested. TWC has the right to
    obtain FCC and judicial review of any arbitration awards made
    pursuant to these conditions.


 



    Communications
    Act and FCC Regulation


 


    The Communications Act and the regulations and policies of the
    FCC affect significant aspects of TWC’s cable system
    operations, including video subscriber rates; carriage of
    broadcast television stations, as well as the way TWC sells its
    program packages to subscribers; the use of cable systems by
    franchising authorities and other third parties; cable system
    ownership; offering of voice and high-speed data services; and
    the use of utility poles and conduits.


 


    “Net Neutrality” Legislative and Regulatory
    Proposals.  In the 109th Congress
    (2005-2006),
    several net neutrality provisions were introduced as part of
    broader Communications Act reform legislation. These provisions
    would have limited to a greater or lesser extent the ability of
    broadband providers to adopt pricing models and network
    management policies that would differentiate based on different
    uses of the Internet. None of these provisions have been
    adopted. Similar legislation has been introduced in the
    110th Congress (2007 — 2008).


 


    In September 2005, the FCC issued a non-binding policy statement
    regarding “net neutrality” setting forth the
    FCC’s view that consumers are entitled to access and use
    the lawful Internet content and applications of their



    
    21



Table of Contents




    choice, to connect lawful devices of their choosing that do not
    harm the broadband provider’s network and are entitled to
    competition among network, application, service and content
    providers. Although the FCC has made these principles binding as
    to certain telecommunications companies in orders adopted in
    connection with mergers undertaken by those companies, to date,
    the FCC has declined to adopt any such regulations that would be
    applicable to TWC.


 


    Several parties are seeking to persuade the FCC to adopt
    “net neutrality” in a number of proceedings that are
    currently pending before the agency. These include pending FCC
    rulemakings regarding
    IP-enabled
    services and broadband Internet access services.


 


    Subscriber Rates.  The Communications Act and
    the FCC’s rules regulate rates for basic cable service and
    equipment in communities that are not subject to “effective
    competition,” as defined by federal law. Where there is no
    effective competition, federal law authorizes franchising
    authorities to regulate the monthly rates charged by the
    operator for the minimum level of video programming service,
    referred to as basic service, which generally includes local
    broadcast channels and public access or educational and
    government channels required by the franchise. This kind of
    regulation also applies to the installation, sale and lease of
    equipment used by subscribers to receive basic service, such as
    set-top boxes and remote control units. In many localities, TWC
    is no longer subject to this rate regulation, either because the
    local franchising authority has not become certified by the FCC
    to regulate these rates or because the FCC has found that there
    is effective competition.


 


    Carriage of Broadcast Television Stations and Other
    Programming Regulation.  The Communications Act
    and the FCC’s regulations contain broadcast signal carriage
    requirements that allow local commercial television broadcast
    stations to elect once every three years to require a cable
    system to carry their stations, subject to some exceptions, or
    to negotiate with cable systems the terms by which the cable
    systems may carry their stations, commonly called
    “retransmission consent.” The most recent election by
    broadcasters became effective on January 1, 2006.


 


    The Communications Act and the FCC’s regulations require a
    cable operator to devote up to one-third of its activated
    channel capacity for the mandatory carriage of local commercial
    television stations. The Communications Act and the FCC’s
    regulations give local non-commercial television stations
    mandatory carriage rights, but non-commercial stations do not
    have the option to negotiate retransmission consent for the
    carriage of their signals by cable systems. Additionally, cable
    systems must obtain retransmission consent for all
    “distant” commercial television stations (i.e., those
    television stations outside the designated market area to which
    a community is assigned) except for commercial
    satellite-delivered independent “superstations” and
    some low-power television stations.


 


    FCC regulations require TWC to carry the signals of both
    commercial and non-commercial local digital-only broadcast
    stations and the digital signals of local broadcast stations
    that return their analog spectrum to the government and convert
    to a digital broadcast format. The FCC’s rules give
    digital-only broadcast stations discretion to elect whether the
    operator will carry the station’s primary signal in a
    digital or converted analog format, and the rules also permit
    broadcasters with both analog and digital signals to tie the
    carriage of their digital signals to the carriage of their
    analog signals as a retransmission consent condition.


 


    The Communications Act also permits franchising authorities to
    negotiate with cable operators for channels for public,
    educational and governmental access programming. It also
    requires a cable system with 36 or more activated channels to
    designate a significant portion of its channel capacity for
    commercial leased access by third parties to provide programming
    that may compete with services offered by the cable operator.
    The FCC regulates various aspects of such third-party commercial
    use of channel capacity on TWC’s cable systems, including
    the rates and some terms and conditions of the commercial use.


 


    In connection with certain changes in TWC’s programming
    line-up, the
    Communications Act and FCC regulations also require TWC to give
    various kinds of advance notice. Direct broadcast satellite
    operators and other non-cable programming distributors are not
    subject to analogous duties.


 


    High-Speed Internet Access.  From time to time,
    industry groups, telephone companies and ISPs have sought local,
    state and federal regulations that would require cable operators
    to sell capacity on their systems to ISPs under a common carrier
    regulatory scheme. Cable operators have successfully challenged
    regulations requiring this



    
    22



Table of Contents




    “forced access,” although courts that have considered
    these cases have employed varying legal rationales in rejecting
    these regulations.


 


    In 2002, the FCC released an order in which it determined that
    cable-modem service constitutes an “information
    service” rather than a “cable service” or a
    “telecommunications service,” as those terms are used
    in the Communications Act, and that determination was sustained
    by the U.S. Supreme Court. According to the FCC, an
    “information service” classification may permit but
    does not require it to impose “multiple ISP”
    requirements. In 2002, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding
    to consider whether it may and should do so and whether local
    franchising authorities should be permitted to do so. As of
    February 1, 2007, this rulemaking proceeding was still
    pending. In 2005, the FCC adopted a Policy Statement intended to
    offer guidance on its approach to the Internet and broadband
    access. Among other things, the Policy Statement stated that
    consumers are entitled to competition among network, service and
    content providers, and to access the lawful content and services
    of their choice, subject to the needs of law enforcement. The
    FCC may in the future adopt specific regulations to implement
    the Policy Statement.


 


    Ownership Limitations.  There are various rules
    prohibiting joint ownership of cable systems and other kinds of
    communications facilities. Local telephone companies generally
    may not acquire more than a small equity interest in an existing
    cable system in the telephone company’s service area, and
    cable operators generally may not acquire more than a small
    equity interest in a local telephone company providing service
    within the cable operator’s franchise area. In addition,
    cable operators may not have more than a small interest in MMDS
    facilities or SMATV systems in their service areas. Finally, the
    FCC has been exploring whether it should prohibit cable
    operators from holding ownership interests in satellite
    operators.


 


    The Communications Act also required the FCC to adopt
    “reasonable limits” on the number of subscribers a
    cable operator may reach through systems in which it holds an
    ownership interest. In September 1993, the FCC adopted a rule
    that was later amended to prohibit any cable operator from
    serving more than 30% of all cable, satellite and other
    multi-channel subscribers nationwide. The Communications Act
    also required the FCC to adopt “reasonable limits” on
    the number of channels that cable operators may fill with
    programming services in which they hold an ownership interest.
    In September 1993, the FCC imposed a limit of 40% of a cable
    operator’s first 75 activated channels. In March 2001, a
    federal appeals court struck down both limits and remanded the
    issue to the FCC for further review. The FCC initiated a
    rulemaking in 2001 to consider adopting a new horizontal
    ownership limit and announced a follow-on proceeding to consider
    the issue anew. As of February 1, 2007, the FCC was
    continuing to explore whether it should re-impose any limits.
    The Company believes that it is unlikely that the FCC will adopt
    limits more stringent than those struck down.


 


    Pole Attachment Regulation.  The Communications
    Act requires that utilities provide cable systems and
    telecommunications carriers with nondiscriminatory access to any
    pole, conduit or
    right-of-way
    controlled by investor-owned utilities. The Communications Act
    also requires the FCC to regulate the rates, terms and
    conditions imposed by these utilities for cable systems’
    use of utility pole and conduit space unless state authorities
    demonstrate to the FCC that they adequately regulate pole
    attachment rates, as is the case in some states in which TWC
    operates. In the absence of state regulation, the FCC
    administers pole attachment rates on a formula basis. The
    FCC’s original rate formula governs the maximum rate
    utilities may charge for attachments to their poles and conduit
    by cable operators providing cable services. The FCC also
    adopted a second rate formula that became effective in February
    2001 and governs the maximum rate investor-owned utilities may
    charge for attachments to their poles and conduit by companies
    providing telecommunications services. The U.S. Supreme
    Court has upheld the FCC’s jurisdiction to regulate the
    rates, terms and conditions of cable operators’ pole
    attachments that are being used to provide both cable service
    and high-speed data service.


 


    Set-Top Box Regulation.  Certain regulatory
    requirements are also applicable to set-top boxes. Currently,
    many cable subscribers rent from their cable operator a set-top
    box that performs both signal-reception functions and
    conditional-access security functions. The lease rates cable
    operators charge for this equipment are subject to rate
    regulation to the same extent as basic cable service. In 1996,
    Congress enacted a statute seeking to allow subscribers to use
    set-top boxes obtained from third-party retailers. The most
    important of the FCC’s implementing regulations requires
    cable operators to offer separate equipment providing only the
    security function (so that subscribers can purchase set-top
    boxes or other navigational devices from other sources) and to
    cease placing into



    
    23



Table of Contents




    service new set-top boxes that have integrated security. The
    regulations requiring cable operators to cease distributing new
    set-top boxes with integrated security are currently scheduled
    to go into effect on July 1, 2007. TWC expects to incur
    approximately $50 million in incremental set-top box costs
    during 2007 as a result of these regulations. In addition, the
    FCC ordered the cable industry to investigate and report on the
    possibility of implementing a downloadable security system that
    would be accessible to all set-top devices. If the
    implementation of such a system proves technologically feasible,
    this may eliminate the need for consumers to lease separate
    conditional-access security devices. On August 16, 2006,
    the National Cable and Telecommunications Association
    (“NCTA”) filed with the FCC a request that these rules
    be waived for all cable operators, including Time Warner Cable,
    until a downloadable security solution is available or
    December 31, 2009, whichever is earlier. As of
    February 1, 2007, this request was still pending. No
    assurance can be given that the FCC will grant this or any other
    waiver request.


 


    In December 2002, cable operators and consumer-electronics
    companies entered into a standard-setting agreement relating to
    reception equipment which uses a conditional-access security
    card — a
    Cable-CARDtm —
    provided by the cable operator to receive one-way cable
    services. To implement the agreement, the FCC adopted
    regulations that (i) establish a voluntary labeling system
    for such one way devices, (ii) require most cable systems
    to support these devices, and (iii) adopt various
    content-encoding rules, including a ban on the use of
    “selectable output controls.” The FCC has issued a
    notice of proposed rulemaking to consider additional changes.
    Cable operators, consumer-electronics companies and other market
    participants are holding discussions that may lead to a similar
    set of interoperability agreements covering digital devices
    capable of carrying cable operators’ two-way and
    interactive products.


 


    Other Regulatory Requirements of the Communications Act and
    the FCC.  The Communications Act also includes
    provisions regulating customer service, inside wiring in
    residences and other buildings, subscriber privacy, marketing
    practices, equal employment opportunity, technical standards and
    equipment compatibility, antenna structure notification,
    marking, lighting, emergency alert system requirements and the
    collection from cable operators of annual regulatory fees, which
    are calculated based on the number of subscribers served and the
    types of FCC licenses held.


 


    Compulsory Copyright Licenses for Carriage of Broadcast
    Stations and Music Performance
    Licenses.  TWC’s cable systems provide
    subscribers with, among other things, local and distant
    television broadcast stations. TWC generally does not obtain a
    license to use the copyrighted performances contained in these
    stations’ programming directly from program owners.
    Instead, it obtains this license pursuant to a compulsory
    license provided by federal law which requires TWC to make
    payments to a copyright pool. The elimination or substantial
    modification of the cable compulsory license could adversely
    affect TWC’s ability to obtain suitable programming and
    could substantially increase the cost of programming that is
    available for distribution to TWC subscribers.


 



    State
    and Local Regulation


 


    Cable operators operate their systems under non-exclusive
    franchises. Franchises are awarded, and cable operators are
    regulated, by state franchising authorities, local franchising
    authorities, or both. TWC believes it generally has good
    relations with state and local cable regulators.


 


    Franchise agreements typically require payment of franchise fees
    and contain regulatory provisions addressing, among other
    things, upgrades, service quality, cable service to schools and
    other public institutions, insurance and indemnity bonds. The
    terms and conditions of cable franchises vary from jurisdiction
    to jurisdiction. The Communications Act provides protections
    against many unreasonable terms. In particular, the
    Communications Act imposes a ceiling on franchise fees of five
    percent of revenues derived from cable service. TWC generally
    passes the franchise fee on to its subscribers, listing it as a
    separate item on the bill.


 


    Franchise agreements usually have a term of ten to 15 years
    from the date of grant, although some renewals may be for
    shorter terms. Franchises usually are terminable only if the
    cable operator fails to comply with material provisions. TWC has
    not had a franchise terminated due to breach. After a franchise
    agreement expires, a local franchising authority may seek to
    impose new and more onerous requirements, including requirements
    to upgrade facilities, to increase channel capacity and to
    provide various new services. Federal law, however, provides
    significant substantive and procedural protections for cable
    operators seeking renewal of their franchises. In



    
    24



Table of Contents




    addition, although TWC occasionally reaches the expiration date
    of a franchise agreement without having a written renewal or
    extension, it generally has the right to continue to operate,
    either by agreement with the local franchising authority or by
    law, while continuing to negotiate a renewal. In the past,
    substantially all of the material franchises relating to
    TWC’s systems have been renewed by the relevant local
    franchising authority, though sometimes only after significant
    time and effort. During 2006, in adopting new regulations
    intended to limit the ability of local franchising authorities
    to delay or refuse the grant of competitive franchises (by, for
    example, imposing deadlines on franchise negotiations), the FCC
    announced the adoption of a Further Notice of Proposed
    Rulemaking that concluded tentatively that these new regulations
    should also apply to existing franchises, including cable
    operators, at the time of their next franchise renewal. The FCC
    indicated it would issue an order in the Further Notice of
    Proposed Rulemaking within six months from release of the final
    order adopting the new regulations applicable to new entrants.
    Despite TWC’s efforts and the protections of federal law,
    it is possible that some of TWC’s franchises may not be
    renewed, and TWC may be required to make significant additional
    investments in its cable systems in response to requirements
    imposed in the course of the franchise renewal process.


 



    Regulation
    of Telephony


 


    As of February 1, 2007 it was unclear whether and to what
    extent regulators will subject services like TWC’s Digital
    Phone service (“Non-traditional Voice Services”) to
    the regulations that apply to traditional circuit switched
    telephone service provided by incumbent telephone companies. In
    February 2004, the FCC opened a broad-based rulemaking
    proceeding to consider these and other issues. That rulemaking
    remains pending. In November 2004, the FCC issued an order
    preempting state certification and tariffing requirements for
    certain kinds of Non-traditional Voice Services. The validity of
    this order has been appealed to a federal appellate court where,
    as of February 20, 2007, a decision was still pending. The
    FCC has, however, issued a series of orders resolving discrete
    issues. For example, in May 2005, the FCC adopted rules
    requiring Non-traditional Voice Service providers to supply E911
    capabilities as a standard feature to their subscribers and to
    obtain affirmative acknowledgement from all subscribers that
    they have been advised of the circumstances under which E911
    service may not be available. In August 2005, the FCC adopted an
    order requiring certain types of Non-traditional Voice Services,
    as well as facilities-based broadband Internet access service
    providers, to assist law enforcement investigations through
    compliance with the Communications Assistance For Law
    Enforcement Act. In June 2006, the FCC adopted an order making
    clear that Non-traditional Voice Service providers must make
    contributions to the federal universal service fund. Certain
    other issues remain unclear, however, including whether the
    state and federal rules that apply to traditional circuit
    switched telephone service also apply to Non-traditional Voice
    Service providers and whether utility pole owners may charge
    cable operators offering Non-traditional Voice Services higher
    rates for pole rental than for traditional cable service and
    cable-modem service. One state public utility commission, for
    example, has determined that TWC’s Digital Phone service is
    subject to traditional state circuit switched telephone
    regulations.


 



    Expiration
    of Turner Consent Decree


 


    In connection with the FTC’s approval of the 1996
    acquisition of Turner by the former Time Warner Inc., the
    Company has been subject to the terms of a consent decree (the
    “Turner Consent Decree”) which, among other things,
    imposed certain carriage commitments on TWC and certain
    restrictions which prohibited the Company from conditioning the
    offering of certain Turner Networks or the HBO service to
    competing distributors on certain anti-competitive terms. The
    Turner Consent Decree expired on February 10, 2007.


 



    Network
    Regulation


 


    Under the Communications Act and its implementing regulations,
    vertically integrated cable programmers like the Turner Networks
    and the Home Box Office Services are generally prohibited
    from offering different prices, terms, or conditions to
    competing unaffiliated multichannel video programming
    distributors unless the differential is justified by certain
    permissible factors set forth in the FCC’s program access
    regulations. The rules also place restrictions on the ability of
    vertically integrated programmers to enter into exclusive
    distribution arrangements with cable operators. On
    January 18, 2007, online video provider VDC Corporation
    (“VDC”) filed a program access complaint with the FCC
    against Turner, also naming TWC and Time Warner in the
    proceeding. VDC seeks both a



    
    25



Table of Contents




    licensing agreement for the carriage of various Turner networks,
    as well as damages not to exceed $25 million. This
    complaint raises issues of first impression at the FCC,
    including whether online providers such as VDC are entitled to
    take advantage of the program access rules. Turner believes
    VDC’s arguments are without merit, and has requested
    dismissal of the complaint. As of February 20, 2007, this
    matter was still pending before the FCC.


 


    Certain other federal laws also contain provisions relating to
    violent and sexually explicit programming, including provisions
    relating to the voluntary promulgation of ratings by the
    industry and requiring manufacturers to build television sets
    with the capability of blocking certain coded programming (the
    so-called “V-chip”). Cable networks with programming
    produced and broadcast primarily for an audience of children 12
    and younger must also comply with commercial time limits during
    such programming.


 



    Marketing
    Regulation


 


    Time Inc.’s magazine and book marketing activities, as well
    as marketing and billing activities by AOL and other divisions
    of the Company, are subject to regulation by the FTC and each of
    the state Attorneys General under general consumer protection
    statutes prohibiting unfair or deceptive acts or practices.
    Certain areas of marketing activity are also subject to specific
    federal statutes and rules, such as the Telephone Consumer
    Protection Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection
    Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (relating to financial privacy),
    the FTC Mail or Telephone Order Merchandise Rule and the FTC
    Telemarketing Sales Rule. There are also certain other statutes
    and rules that regulate conduct in areas such as privacy, data
    security and telemarketing. In addition, Time Inc. regularly
    receives and resolves routine inquiries from state Attorneys
    General and is subject to agreements with state Attorneys
    General addressing some of Time Inc.’s marketing
    activities. Also, Time Inc. has pending with the FTC a response
    to a Civil Investigative Demand relating to Time Inc.’s
    retail subscription sales partnership with Best Buy.


 


    AOL is subject to certain consent orders and assurances of
    voluntary compliance or discontinuance reached with federal and
    state regulators. In 1998, AOL entered into an FTC Consent
    Decree regarding service access, billing authorization and
    disclosures. In 2004, AOL entered into a Consent Decree with the
    FTC related to the company’s retention and rebate
    practices. AOL has also entered into a series of settlements
    with State Attorneys General. In 2007, AOL entered into an
    Assurance of Voluntary Compliance (“AVC”) with the
    State of Florida under which it undertook an obligation to
    maintain various safeguards that it had previously implemented
    (and to develop and implement several new disclosure,
    confirmation and call recordation processes) around certain
    registration, marketing and retention processes. In 2005, AOL
    entered into an Assurance of Discontinuance with the State of
    New York under which it agreed to implement two safeguards
    around its retention process (third-party verification, which
    AOL had been testing prior to the investigation, and a change to
    retention compensation practices). In 1998, AOL entered into a
    multi-state AVC regarding free trial offers, changes to its
    Terms of Services, immaterial marketing, cancellation policies
    and procedures, and premium services. In 1996 and 1997, AOL
    entered into multi-state AVCs regarding changes in its service
    offering from metered to unlimited access. AOL from time to time
    also is subject to investigations by various state regulators
    regarding consumer protection issues related to marketing and
    billing matters.


 



    DESCRIPTION
    OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENTS
    RELATED TO TIME WARNER CABLE INC.


 



    Background


 


    Time Warner Cable Inc. (“TWC”) was created in
    connection with the March 31, 2003 restructuring (the
    “TWE Restructuring”) of Time Warner Entertainment
    Company, L.P. (“TWE”), a limited partnership which
    formerly held a substantial portion of Time Warner’s filmed
    entertainment, networks and cable system assets.


 


    Among other things, as a result of the TWE Restructuring, all of
    Time Warner’s cable system assets, including those that
    were wholly owned by Time Warner and those that were held
    through TWE, became controlled by TWC. As part of the TWE
    Restructuring, Time Warner received a 79% economic interest in
    the cable systems of TWC and TWE, the non-cable system assets of
    TWE were distributed to Time Warner, and TWE, which continued to
    own cable systems, became a subsidiary of TWC. Comcast, which
    prior to the TWE Restructuring had a 27.64% stake in



    
    26



Table of Contents




    TWE, following the TWE Restructuring held 17.9% of TWC’s
    common stock and a 4.7% limited partnership interest in TWE.


 


    In connection with the closing on July 31, 2006 of the
    Adelphia acquisition (the “Adelphia Acquisition”),
    TW NY paid for the Adelphia assets acquired by it with both
    cash and shares of TWC’s Class A Common Stock
    representing approximately 16% of TWC’s outstanding common
    stock. Immediately prior to the Adelphia Acquisition, through a
    series of other transactions TWC and TWE redeemed Comcast’s
    interests in TWC and TWE and, as a result of these events,
    Comcast no longer has an interest in either TWC or TWE. Adelphia
    has begun distributing the shares it acquired in the Adelphia
    Acquisition to its creditors pursuant to a Chapter 11
    bankruptcy plan, which became effective on February 13,
    2007. On the same day that the Chapter 11 plan became
    effective, under applicable securities law regulations and
    provisions of the U.S. bankruptcy code, TWC became a public
    company subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934. It is expected that the TWC Class A Common
    Stock will begin to trade on the NYSE on or about March 1,
    2007.


 


    Time Warner owns approximately 84% of TWC’s common stock
    (including approximately 83% of the outstanding TWC Class A
    Common Stock and all outstanding shares of TWC Class B
    Common Stock), and also owns an indirect 12.4% non-voting
    interest in TW NY.


 



    Management
    and Operation of TWC


 


    The following description summarizes certain provisions of
    agreements related to, and constituent documents of, TWC that
    affect and govern the ongoing operations of TWC. Such
    description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in
    its entirety by reference to the provisions of such agreements
    and constituent documents.


 


    Stockholders of TWC.  A subsidiary of Time
    Warner owns 746,000,000 shares of TWC Class A Common
    Stock, which generally has one vote per share, and
    75,000,000 shares of TWC Class B Common Stock, which
    generally has ten votes per share, which together represent
    90.6% of the voting power of TWC stock and approximately 84% of
    the equity of TWC. The TWC Class B Common Stock is not
    convertible into TWC Class A Common Stock. The TWC
    Class A Common Stock and the TWC Class B Common Stock
    vote together as a single class on all matters, except with
    respect to the election of directors and certain matters
    described below.


 


    Board of Directors of TWC.  The TWC
    Class A Common Stock votes as a separate class with respect
    to the election of the Class A directors of TWC (the
    “Class A Directors”), and the TWC Class B
    Common Stock votes as a separate class with respect to the
    election of the Class B directors of TWC (the
    “Class B Directors”). Pursuant to the amended and
    restated certificate of incorporation of TWC (the “TWC
    Certificate of Incorporation”), which was adopted upon the
    closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Class A Directors
    must represent not less than one-sixth and not more than
    one-fifth of the directors of TWC, and the Class B
    Directors must represent not less than four-fifths of the
    directors of TWC. As a result of its holdings, Time Warner has
    the ability to cause the election of all Class A Directors
    and Class B Directors, subject to certain restrictions on
    the identity of these directors discussed below.


 


    The TWC Certificate of Incorporation requires that there be at
    least two independent directors on the board of directors of
    TWC. Pursuant to a shareholder agreement between TWC and Time
    Warner (the “Shareholder Agreement”), so long as Time
    Warner has the power to elect a majority of TWC’s board of
    directors, TWC must obtain Time Warner’s consent before
    entering into any agreement that binds or purports to bind Time
    Warner or its affiliates or that would subject TWC or its
    subsidiaries to significant penalties or restrictions as a
    result of any action or omission of Time Warner or its
    affiliates; or adopting a stockholder rights plan, becoming
    subject to section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation
    Law, adopting a “fair price” provision in its
    certificate of incorporation or taking any similar action.


 


    Furthermore, pursuant to the Shareholder Agreement, Time Warner
    may purchase debt securities issued by TWE under the TWE
    Indenture only after giving notice to TWC of the approximate
    amount of debt securities it intends to purchase and the general
    time period for the purchase, which period may not be greater
    than 90 days, subject to TWC’s right to give notice to
    Time Warner that it intends to purchase such amount of TWE debt
    securities itself.



    
    27



Table of Contents



 


    Under the terms of the TWC Certificate of Incorporation, for
    three years following July 31, 2006, the date upon which
    shares of TWC common stock were issued in connection with the
    Adelphia Acquisition, at least 50% of the board of directors of
    TWC must be independent directors.


 


    Protections of Minority Class A Common
    Stockholders.  The approval of the holders of a
    majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of TWC
    Class A Common Stock held by persons other than Time Warner
    is necessary in connection with:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    any merger, consolidation or business combination of TWC in
    which the holders of TWC Class A Common Stock do not
    receive per share consideration identical to that received by
    the holders of the TWC Class B Common Stock (other than with
    respect to voting power) or which would adversely affect the
    specific rights and privileges of the TWC Class A Common
    Stock relative to the TWC Class B Common Stock;



 


     
        • 

    
    any change to the TWC Certificate of Incorporation that would
    have a material adverse effect on the rights of the holders of
    the TWC Class A Common Stock in a manner different from the
    effect on the holders of the TWC Class B Common Stock;



 


     
        • 

    
    through July 31, 2011, any change to provisions of
    TWC’s amended and restated by-laws (the “TWC
    By-Laws”) concerning restrictions on transactions between
    TWC and Time Warner and its affiliates and the adoption of
    provisions of the TWC Certificate of Incorporation or the TWC
    By-Laws inconsistent with such restrictions;



 


     
        • 

    
    any change to the TWC Certificate of Incorporation that would
    alter the number of independent directors required on the TWC
    board of directors; and



 


     
        • 

    
    any change to the provisions of the TWC Certificate of
    Incorporation that would affect the right of the TWC
    Class A Common Stock to vote as a class in connection with
    any of the events discussed above.





 



    Matters
    Affecting the Relationship between Time Warner and TWC


 


    Indebtedness Approval Right.  Under the
    Shareholder Agreement, until such time as the indebtedness of
    TWC is no longer attributable to Time Warner, in Time
    Warner’s reasonable judgment, TWC, its subsidiaries and
    entities that it manages may not, without the consent of Time
    Warner, create, incur or guarantee any indebtedness (except for
    the issuance of commercial paper or borrowings under TWC’s
    current revolving credit facility up to the limit of that credit
    facility, to which Time Warner has consented), including
    preferred equity, or rental obligations if its ratio of
    indebtedness plus six times its annual rental expense to EBITDA
    (as EBITDA is defined in the Shareholder Agreement) plus rental
    expense, or “EBITDAR,” then exceeds or would exceed
    3:1.


 


    Other Time Warner Rights.  Under the
    Shareholder Agreement, TWC must obtain Time Warner’s
    consent before it enters into any agreement that binds or
    purports to bind Time Warner or its affiliates or that would
    subject TWC to significant penalties or restrictions as a result
    of any action or omission of Time Warner; or adopts a
    stockholder rights plan, becomes subject to Section 203 of
    the Delaware General Corporation Law, adopts a “fair
    price” provision or takes any similar action.


 


    Time Warner Standstill.  Under the Shareholder
    Agreement, Time Warner has agreed that for a period of three
    years following the closing of the Adelphia Acquisition, Time
    Warner will not make or announce a tender offer or exchange
    offer for TWC Class A Common Stock without the approval of
    a majority of the independent directors of TWC; and for a period
    of 10 years following the closing of the Adelphia
    Acquisition, Time Warner will not enter into any business
    combination with TWC, including a short-form merger, without the
    approval of a majority of the independent directors of TWC.
    Under the Adelphia Acquisition agreement, TWC has agreed that
    for a period of two years following the closing of the Adelphia
    Acquisition it will not enter into any short-form merger and
    that for a period of 18 months following the closing of the
    Adelphia Acquisition it will not issue equity securities to any
    person (other than, subject to satisfying certain requirements,
    Time Warner and its affiliates) that have a higher vote per
    share than the TWC Class A Common Stock.


 


    Transactions between Time Warner and TWC.  The
    TWC By-Laws provide that Time Warner may only enter into
    transactions with TWC and its subsidiaries, including TWE, that
    are on terms that, at the time of entering into such
    transaction, are substantially as favorable to TWC or its
    subsidiaries as they would be able to receive in a



    
    28



Table of Contents




    comparable arm’s-length transaction with a third party. Any
    such transaction involving reasonably anticipated payments or
    other consideration of $50 million or greater also requires
    the prior approval of a majority of the independent directors of
    TWC. The TWC By-Laws also prohibit TWC from entering into any
    transaction having the intended effect of benefiting Time Warner
    and any of its affiliates (other than TWC and its subsidiaries)
    at the expense of TWC or any of its subsidiaries in a manner
    that would deprive TWC or any of its subsidiaries of the benefit
    it would have otherwise obtained if the transaction were to have
    been effected on arm’s-length terms.


 


    Time Warner Registration Rights Agreement between TWC and
    Time Warner.  At the closing of the TWE
    Restructuring, Time Warner and TWC entered into a registration
    rights agreement (the “Registration Rights Agreement”)
    relating to Time Warner’s shares of TWC common stock.
    Subject to several exceptions, including TWC’s right to
    defer a demand registration under some circumstances, Time
    Warner may, under that agreement, require that TWC take
    commercially reasonable steps to register for public resale
    under the Securities Act all shares of common stock that Time
    Warner requests to be registered. Time Warner may demand an
    unlimited number of registrations. In addition, Time Warner has
    been granted “piggyback” registration rights subject
    to customary restrictions and TWC is permitted to piggyback on
    Time Warner’s registrations. TWC has also agreed that, in
    connection with a registration and sale by Time Warner under the
    Registration Rights Agreement, it will indemnify Time Warner and
    bear all fees, costs and expenses, except underwriting discounts
    and selling commissions.


 



    FOREIGN
    CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES


 


    Time Warner’s foreign operations are subject to various
    risks, including the risk of fluctuation in currency exchange
    rates and to exchange controls. Time Warner cannot predict the
    extent to which such controls and fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates may affect its operations in the future or its
    ability to remit dollars from abroad. See
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of
    Operations and Financial Condition — Market Risk
    Analysis,” Note 15, “Derivative Instruments”
    to the consolidated financial statements set forth in the
    financial section of this report, and “Risk Factors”
    below, for additional information.


 



    FINANCIAL
    INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS, GEOGRAPHIC AREAS AND
    BACKLOG


 


    Financial and other information by segment and revenues by
    geographic area for each year in the three-year period ended
    December 31, 2006 is set forth in Note 16,
    “Segment Information,” to the Company’s
    consolidated financial statements in the financial section of
    this report. Information with respect to the Company’s
    backlog, representing future revenue not yet recorded from cash
    contracts for the licensing of theatrical and television
    programming, at December 31, 2006 and December 31,
    2005, is set forth in Note 17, “Commitments and
    Contingencies — Programming Licensing Backlog,”
    to the Company’s consolidated financial statements in the
    financial section of this report.







 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER GENERALLY


 


    Pending securities litigation or the failure to fulfill
    the obligations under the Consent Order with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission could adversely affect Time Warner’s
    operations.  In connection with the
    Company’s settlement with the SEC, the Company consented to
    the entry of a Consent Order requiring it to comply with federal
    securities laws and regulations and the terms of an earlier
    order. If the Company is found to be in violation of the Consent
    Order, it may be subject to increased penalties and consequences
    as a result of the prior actions. During 2002 and 2003, many
    putative class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits
    alleging violations of federal and state securities laws and
    ERISA, as well as purported breaches of fiduciary duties, were
    filed against Time Warner, certain of its current and former
    executives, past and present members of its Board of Directors
    and, in



    
    29



Table of Contents




    certain instances, AOL. In addition, several actions alleging
    various securities law violations were filed by individual
    shareholders in state and federal court. During 2005 and 2006,
    the Company reached agreements to settle the primary
    consolidated securities class action lawsuits, the shareholder
    derivative lawsuits and the consolidated action alleging ERISA
    violations, as well as many of the lawsuits brought by
    individual shareholders. However, some members of the class
    elected to “opt out” of the settlement of the primary
    securities class action to pursue their claims separately. In
    addition, some of the individual shareholder actions remain
    pending in federal and state courts. In 2005, the Company
    established a reserve aggregating $3 billion, with
    $2.4 billion for the settlement of the primary consolidated
    securities class actions and $600 million in connection
    with the remaining shareholder derivative, ERISA and securities
    matters (including suits brought by individual shareholders who
    decided to “opt out” of the settlement in the primary
    securities class action). The $3 billion reserve had been
    substantially utilized to settle certain of these claims, and in
    the fourth quarter of 2006 the Company established an additional
    reserve of $600 million related to its remaining securities
    litigation matters. During February 2007 the Company reached
    agreements in principle to pay approximately $405 million
    to settle certain of the remaining “opt out” claims.
    Plaintiffs have claimed approximately $3 billion in
    aggregated damages with interest in the remaining cases. The
    Company has engaged in, and may in the future engage in,
    mediation in an attempt to resolve the remaining cases, but if
    they cannot be resolved by adjudication on summary judgment or
    by settlement, trials will ensue in these matters. Although the
    Company intends to defend against these lawsuits vigorously, the
    ultimate amount that may be paid to resolve all unsettled
    litigation in these matters could be materially greater than the
    remaining reserve of approximately $215 million. The
    Company also is incurring expenses as a result of the pending
    “opt out” cases and individual securities actions, and
    costs associated with judgments in or additional settlements of
    these matters could adversely affect its financial condition and
    results of operations. See Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings — Securities Matters.”


 


    Several of the Company’s businesses are characterized
    by rapid technological change, and if Time Warner does not
    respond appropriately to technological changes, its competitive
    position may be harmed.  Time Warner’s
    businesses operate in the highly competitive, consumer-driven
    and rapidly changing media, entertainment, interactive services
    and cable industries. Several of its businesses are dependent to
    a large extent on their ability to acquire, develop, adopt, and
    exploit new and existing technologies to distinguish their
    products and services from those of their competitors.
    Technological development, application and exploitation can take
    long periods of time and require significant capital
    investments. In addition, the Company may be required to
    anticipate far in advance which of the potential new
    technologies and equipment it should adopt for new products and
    services or for future enhancements of or upgrades to its
    existing products and services. If it chooses technologies or
    equipment that do not become the prevailing standard or that are
    less effective, cost-efficient or attractive to its customers
    than those chosen by its competitors, or if it offers products
    or services that fail to appeal to consumers, are not available
    at competitive prices or do not function as expected, the
    Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its
    operations, business or financial results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    The Company’s competitive position also may be adversely
    affected by various timing factors, such as delays in its new
    product or service offerings or the ability of its competitors
    to acquire or develop and introduce new technologies, products
    and services more quickly than the Company. Furthermore,
    advances in technology or changes in competitors’ product
    and service offerings may require the Company in the future to
    make additional research and development expenditures or to
    offer at no additional charge or at a lower price certain
    products and services the Company currently offers to customers
    separately or at a premium. Also, if the costs of existing
    technologies decrease in the future, the Company may not be able
    to maintain current price levels for its products or services.
    In addition, the inability to obtain intellectual property
    rights from third parties at a reasonable price or at all could
    impair the ability of the Company to respond to technological
    advances in a timely or cost-effective manner.


 


    The combination of increased competition, more
    technologically-advanced platforms, products and services, the
    increasing number of choices available to consumers and the
    overall rate of change in the media, entertainment, interactive
    services and cable industries requires companies such as Time
    Warner to become more responsive to consumer needs and to adapt
    more quickly to market conditions than had been necessary in the
    past. The Company



    
    30



Table of Contents




    could have difficulty managing these changes while at the same
    time maintaining its rates of growth and profitability.


 


    Piracy of the Company’s feature films, television
    programming and other content may decrease the revenues received
    from the exploitation of the Company’s entertainment
    content and adversely affect its business and
    profitability.  Piracy of motion pictures,
    television programming, video content and DVDs poses significant
    challenges to several of the Company’s businesses.
    Technological advances allowing the unauthorized dissemination
    of motion pictures, television programming and other content in
    unprotected digital formats, including via the Internet,
    increase the threat of piracy. Such technological advances make
    it easier to create, transmit and distribute high quality
    unauthorized copies of such content. The proliferation of
    unauthorized copies and piracy of the Company’s products or
    the products it licenses from third parties can have an adverse
    effect on its businesses and profitability because these
    products reduce the revenue that Time Warner potentially could
    receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its
    content. In addition, if piracy continues to increase, it could
    have an adverse effect on the Company’s business and
    profitability. Although piracy adversely affects the
    Company’s U.S. revenues, the impact on revenues from
    outside the United States is more significant, particularly in
    countries where laws protective of intellectual property rights
    are not strictly enforced. Time Warner has taken, and will
    continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy, both
    individually and together with cross-industry groups, trade
    associations and strategic partners, including the launch of new
    services for consumers at competitive price points, aggressive
    online and customs enforcement, compressed release windows and
    educational campaigns. Policing the unauthorized use of the
    Company’s intellectual property is difficult, however, and
    the steps taken by the Company will not prevent the infringement
    by and/or
    piracy of unauthorized third parties in every case. There can be
    no assurance that the Company’s efforts to enforce its
    rights and protect its intellectual property will be successful
    in reducing content piracy.


 


    The Company has been, and may be in the future, subject to
    intellectual property infringement claims, which could have an
    adverse impact on the Company’s business or operating
    results due to a disruption in its business operations, the
    incurrence of significant costs and other
    factors.  From time to time, the Company
    receives notices from others claiming that it infringes their
    intellectual property rights, and the number of these claims
    could increase in the future. Claims of intellectual property
    infringement could require Time Warner to enter into royalty or
    licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial
    monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently
    from further use of the intellectual property in question, which
    could require Time Warner to change its business practices and
    limit its ability to compete effectively. Even if Time Warner
    believes that the claims are without merit, the claims can be
    time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s
    attention and resources away from its businesses. In addition,
    agreements entered into by the Company may require it to
    indemnify the other party for certain third-party intellectual
    property infringement claims, which could require the Company to
    expend sums to defend against or settle such claims or,
    potentially, to pay damages. If Time Warner is required to take
    any of these actions, it could have an adverse impact on the
    Company’s business or operating results.


 


    Time Warner’s businesses may suffer if it cannot
    continue to license or enforce the intellectual property rights
    on which its businesses depend.  The Company
    relies on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in
    the United States and similar laws in other countries, and
    licenses and other agreements with its employees, customers,
    suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain its
    intellectual property rights in technology and products and
    services used in its various operations. However, the
    Company’s intellectual property rights could be challenged
    or invalidated, or such intellectual property rights may not be
    sufficient to permit it to take advantage of current industry
    trends or otherwise to provide competitive advantages, which
    could result in costly redesign efforts, discontinuance of
    certain product and service offerings or other competitive harm.
    Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect Time
    Warner’s proprietary rights, or such laws may not be
    strictly enforced. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions the
    Company may be unable to protect its intellectual property
    adequately against unauthorized copying or use, which could
    adversely affect its competitive position. Also, because of the
    rapid pace of technological change in the industries in which
    the Company operates, much of the business of its various
    segments relies on technologies developed or licensed by third
    parties, and Time Warner may not be able to obtain or to
    continue to obtain licenses from these third parties on
    reasonable terms, if at all. It is also possible that, in
    connection with a merger, sale or acquisition transaction, the
    Company may license its trademarks or service marks



    
    31



Table of Contents




    and associated goodwill to third parties, or the business of
    various segments could be subject to certain restrictions in
    connection with such trademarks or service marks and associated
    goodwill that were not in place prior to such a transaction.


 


    Time Warner’s international operations are subject to
    increased risks that could adversely affect its business and
    operating results.  Time Warner’s
    businesses operate and serve customers worldwide. There are
    certain risks inherent in doing business internationally,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    import or export restrictions and changes in trade regulations;



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing
    a large number of foreign operations as a result of distance and
    language and cultural differences;



 


     
        • 

    
    stringent local labor laws and regulations;



 


     
        • 

    
    longer payment cycles;



 


     
        • 

    
    political or social unrest;



 


     
        • 

    
    economic instability;



 


     
        • 

    
    seasonal volatility in business activity;



 


     
        • 

    
    risks related to government regulation;



 


     
        • 

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations; and



 


     
        • 

    
    potentially adverse tax consequences.





 


    One or more of these factors could harm the Company’s
    future international operations and consequently, could harm its
    business and operating results.


 


    Weakening economic conditions or other factors could
    reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or
    hinder its ability to increase such
    revenues.  Expenditures by advertisers tend to
    be cyclical, reflecting general economic conditions, as well as
    budgeting and buying patterns. Because several of the
    Company’s segments derive a substantial portion of their
    revenues from the sale of advertising, a decline or delay in
    advertising expenditures could reduce the Company’s
    revenues or hinder its ability to increase these revenues.
    Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or
    hostilities also could lead to a reduction in advertising
    expenditures as a result of uninterrupted news coverage and
    economic uncertainty. Advertising expenditures by companies in
    certain sectors of the economy, including the automotive,
    financial and pharmaceutical industries, represent a significant
    portion of the Company’s advertising revenues. Any
    political, economic, social or technological change resulting in
    a significant reduction in the advertising spending of these
    sectors could adversely affect the Company’s advertising
    revenues or its ability to increase such revenues. In addition,
    because many of the products and services offered by the Company
    are largely discretionary items, weakening economic conditions
    or outlook could reduce the consumption of such products and
    services and reduce the Company’s revenues.


 


    The introduction and increased popularity of alternative
    technologies for the distribution of news, entertainment and
    other information and the resulting shift in consumer habits
    and/or
    advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could
    adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing,
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment
    segments.  The Company’s Publishing and
    Networks segments derive a substantial portion of their revenue
    from advertising in magazines and on television. Distribution of
    news, entertainment and other information via the Internet has
    become increasingly popular over the past several years, and
    viewing news, entertainment and other content on a personal
    computer, cellular phone or other electronic or portable
    electronic device has become increasingly popular as well.
    Accordingly, advertising dollars have started to shift from
    traditional media to online media. The shift in major
    advertisers’ expenditures from traditional to online media
    has had an adverse effect on the revenue growth of the
    Publishing and Networks segments, which may continue in the
    future. In addition, if consumers increasingly elect to obtain
    news and entertainment online instead of by purchasing the
    Publishing segment’s magazines, this trend could negatively
    impact the segment’s circulation revenue and also adversely
    affect its advertising revenue. The Publishing and Networks
    segments have taken various steps to diversify the means by
    which they distribute content and generate advertising revenue,
    including relaunching



    
    32



Table of Contents




    certain websites and expanding their existing online content.
    However, the segments’ strategies for achieving sustained
    revenue growth may not be sufficient to offset revenue losses
    resulting from a continued shift in advertising dollars over the
    long term from traditional to online media. In addition, this
    trend also could have an indirect negative impact on the
    licensing revenue generated by the Filmed Entertainment segment
    and the revenue generated by Home Box Office from the
    licensing of its original programming in syndication and to
    basic cable channels.


 


    The Company faces risks relating to competition for the
    leisure and entertainment time of audiences, which has
    intensified in part due to advances in
    technology.  In addition to the various
    competitive factors discussed in the following paragraphs, all
    of the Company’s businesses are subject to risks relating
    to increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time
    of consumers. The Company’s businesses compete with each
    other and all other sources of news, information and
    entertainment, including broadcast television, movies, live
    events, radio broadcasts, home video products, console games,
    print media and the Internet. Technological advancements, such
    as video on demand, new video formats and Internet streaming and
    downloading, have increased the number of media and
    entertainment choices available to consumers and intensified the
    challenges posed by audience fragmentation. The increasing
    number of choices available to audiences could negatively impact
    not only consumer demand for the Company’s products and
    services, but also advertisers’ willingness to purchase
    advertising from the Company’s businesses. If the Company
    does not respond appropriately to further increases in the
    leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, the
    Company’s competitive position could deteriorate, and its
    financial results could suffer.


 


    Several of the Company’s businesses rely heavily on
    network and information systems or other technology, and a
    disruption or failure of such networks, systems or technology as
    a result of computer viruses, misappropriation of data or other
    malfeasance, as well as outages, natural disasters, accidental
    releases of information or similar events, may disrupt the
    Company’s businesses.  Because network
    and information systems and other technologies are critical to
    many of Time Warner’s operating activities, network or
    information system shutdowns caused by events such as computer
    hacking, dissemination of computer viruses, worms and other
    destructive or disruptive software, denial of service attacks
    and other malicious activity, as well as power outages, natural
    disasters, terrorist attacks and similar events, pose increasing
    risks. Such an event could have an adverse impact on the Company
    and its customers, including degradation of service, service
    disruption, excessive call volume to call centers and damage to
    equipment and data. Such an event also could result in large
    expenditures necessary to repair or replace such networks or
    information systems or to protect them from similar events in
    the future. Significant incidents could result in a disruption
    of the Company’s operations, customer dissatisfaction, or a
    loss of customers or revenues.


 


    Furthermore, the operating activities of Time Warner’s
    various businesses could be subject to risks caused by
    misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification and accidental
    release or loss of information maintained in the Company’s
    information technology systems and networks, including customer,
    personnel and vendor data. The Company could be exposed to
    significant costs if such risks were to materialize, and such
    events could damage the reputation and credibility of Time
    Warner and its businesses and have a negative impact on its
    revenues. The Company also could be required to expend
    significant capital and other resources to remedy any such
    security breach. As a result of the increasing awareness
    concerning the importance of safeguarding personal information,
    the potential misuse of such information and legislation that
    has been adopted or is being considered regarding the
    protection, privacy and security of personal information,
    information-related risks are increasing, particularly for
    businesses like Time Warner’s that handle a large amount of
    personal customer data.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S AOL BUSINESS


 


    If AOL’s business strategy does not succeed in
    sustaining current levels of activity generated on AOL’s
    interactive properties by current AOL subscribers and increasing
    the number of other Internet users and the level of activity
    they generate on AOL’s interactive properties, AOL’s
    business, results of operations and financial condition may be
    adversely impacted.  In the third quarter of
    2006, AOL began implementing a new phase of its business
    strategy to shift from a primarily subscription-based business
    model to a primarily advertising-supported business model. In
    2006, subscription revenues represented approximately 74% of
    AOL’s total revenues, and



    
    33



Table of Contents




    advertising revenues represented approximately 24% of AOL’s
    total revenues. The success of AOL’s strategy depends on
    AOL’s ability to sustain current levels of activity
    generated on AOL’s interactive properties, whether accessed
    via the AOL client software or directly through the Internet, by
    current AOL access subscribers and its ability to increase the
    number of other Internet users and the level of activity they
    generate on AOL’s interactive properties.


 


    As part of its business strategy, AOL is offering a
    “free” Internet service that was previously only
    available on a subscription basis; this “free” offer
    has contributed to declines in the number of access subscribers
    and related subscription revenues, and such declines are
    expected to continue.  Before the implementation
    of the new phase of its business strategy, AOL maintained
    greater distinctions between its subscription service (the AOL
    service) and its free interactive properties. A significant
    component of the new phase of its business strategy includes AOL
    providing content, features and tools, previously available only
    to access subscribers, to all Internet consumers at no charge,
    including the AOL client software, “AOL.com”
    e-mail
    addresses and certain safety and security tools. Certain
    components of the AOL service continue to be available only to
    subscribers, such as
    dial-up
    Internet access and live customer service. AOL is experiencing
    declines in the number of subscribers and related subscription
    revenues, and expects that subscribers and related subscription
    revenues will decline further as consumers continue to upgrade
    to broadband Internet access from
    dial-up
    Internet access. As subscription revenues decline, AOL will
    become more dependent on advertising revenues and continued cost
    reductions in order to improve its financial performance.


 


    AOL currently depends on its access subscribers to generate a
    significant majority of its paid-search and display advertising
    revenues, and in the future it must be able to maintain the
    level of engagement of these subscribers and to attract new
    highly-engaged Internet users to its interactive properties to
    continue to increase its advertising
    revenues.  For its business strategy to be
    successful, AOL must continue to increase advertising revenues.
    A significant majority of AOL’s paid-search and display
    advertising revenues currently is generated from activity by AOL
    access subscribers who use AOL
    e-mail and
    the AOL client software. By permitting the general Internet
    population (including former subscribers) to use the AOL client
    software, “AOL.com”
    e-mail
    addresses and certain other AOL interactive offerings at no
    charge, AOL aims to maintain the generally high level of
    engagement of its current subscribers (regardless of whether
    they continue to pay AOL for Internet access) and to attract new
    highly-engaged Internet consumers to the AOL properties. Even
    though AOL has registered a significant number of new
    e-mail
    accounts and has migrated a significant number of paid
    subscribers to “free” accounts, these actions are not
    necessarily an indicator of high levels of future activity by
    the Internet users (including former subscribers) on the AOL
    Network, which activity is needed in order for AOL to continue
    to increase its advertising revenues.


 


    Important components of AOL’s business strategy are
    maintaining the usage of the AOL client software by current
    subscribers, increasing the usage of the AOL client software by
    the general Internet population, including former subscribers,
    and increasing both traffic to AOL websites and consumption of
    other AOL interactive services. To increase the ease with which
    the general Internet population can obtain the AOL client
    software and access both AOL websites and other interactive
    services, AOL seeks to distribute its free and paid products and
    services (such as the AOL client software, AOL.com, AOL content
    and/or other
    AOL interactive services) through a variety of methods,
    including relationships with third-party high-speed Internet
    access providers, retailers, computer manufacturers or other
    aggregators of Internet activity, and through search engine
    optimization and search engine marketing. Although AOL had
    relationships with certain high-speed Internet access providers
    and computer manufacturers in place when it implemented the new
    phase of its business strategy, its ability to enter into new or
    additional distribution agreements may be limited by existing
    exclusive arrangements that distributors have with other
    Internet companies. Furthermore, distribution of interactive
    products and services is subject to significant competition.
    Although agreements with high-speed Internet access providers,
    computer manufacturers and retailers are not required for
    Internet users either to obtain the AOL client software or to
    access other free AOL interactive properties and services, if
    AOL is unable to enter into favorable arrangements with these
    parties, fewer Internet users may download the AOL client
    software
    and/or use
    other AOL interactive properties or services, which could hinder
    the growth of AOL’s advertising revenues.


 


    In order for AOL to continue to improve its financial
    performance, AOL must increase its advertising revenues, as well
    as reduce its overall costs, in sufficient amounts and in a
    timely manner to coincide with or precede the continuing loss of
    subscribers to the AOL service and related subscription
    revenues.  Subscription revenues



    
    34



Table of Contents




    declined substantially in 2006, and such declines are expected
    to continue. At the same time, advertising revenues increased
    during 2006, but not in an amount sufficient to offset the
    decline in subscription revenues. In 2007, advertising revenues
    must be increased substantially and AOL’s costs must be
    decreased substantially in order for AOL’s financial
    performance to improve. AOL made substantial cost reductions in
    2006 related to marketing, network service, customer service and
    product development, and it intends to continue to identify and
    implement cost reductions. However, cost reductions may lead to
    employee distraction and morale problems, as well as difficulty
    in hiring or retaining necessary employees. Reducing costs may
    also lead to reduced operational capabilities, and if costs are
    reduced in a manner that is not consistent with operational
    requirements, AOL’s ability to provide satisfactory
    customer service may be adversely affected. Following the
    substantial cost reductions made prior to and during 2006, it
    may become increasingly difficult to identify and implement cost
    reductions in 2007 without adversely impacting AOL’s
    operational effectiveness. If advertising revenues do not
    increase and if cost reductions are not made in sufficient
    amounts and on a timeline that coincides with or precedes the
    continuing loss of subscribers and related decreases in
    subscription revenues, or if AOL is unable to make cost
    reductions in an operationally effective manner, AOL’s
    operating results and financial condition could be adversely
    affected.


 


    The new phase of AOL’s business strategy has made AOL
    more susceptible to the risks of operating an advertising
    business.  With the implementation of the new
    phase of its business strategy, AOL has become more dependent on
    advertising revenues and thus more susceptible to the risks of
    operating an advertising-supported business. Purchases of
    advertising tend to be cyclical and are susceptible to changing
    economic and market conditions that are outside AOL’s
    control, as described above in the risk factor entitled
    “Weakening economic conditions or other factors could
    reduce the Company’s advertising or other revenues or
    hinder its ability to increase such revenues.” The size of
    the Internet advertising business, including the sponsored-links
    search business, has increased substantially during 2006. If the
    Internet advertising business does not continue to grow or
    shrinks in 2007, AOL’s ability to generate increased
    advertising revenues may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, the
    Internet advertising business is relatively new and has seen
    greater volatility than the general advertising market. It is
    possible that Internet advertising could be disproportionately
    affected by any advertising or economic slowdown. A significant
    amount of growth in AOL’s advertising revenues in 2006 was
    attributable to operational improvements and improved targeting.
    AOL must continue to identify and implement such operational and
    targeting improvements in order to support increased pricing and
    in order to continue to increase its advertising revenues. Also
    in 2006, almost a quarter of AOL’s growth in advertising
    revenues was attributable to the expansion of a relationship
    with a single customer. In the future, AOL will need to continue
    to maintain or expand this relationship or identify and enter
    into new or expanded relationships with other advertising
    customers in order to sustain or increase its growth in
    advertising revenues. Continued growth in AOL’s advertising
    business also depends on its ability to continue offering a
    competitive and distinctive range of advertising products and
    services for marketers and its ability to maintain or increase
    prices for its advertising products and services. If AOL cannot
    continue to improve its advertising products and services or if
    prices for its advertising products and services decrease,
    AOL’s advertising revenues could be adversely affected.


 


    AOL faces intense competition in its global web services
    business, its Internet access business and in the distribution
    of its products and services, and must compete successfully in
    order to improve its financial
    performance.  AOL’s global web services
    business competes for online users’ time and attention and
    advertising, subscription and commerce revenues with a wide
    range of companies, including web-based portals and individual
    websites providing content, commerce, search, communications,
    community and similar features, as well as ISPs and traditional
    media companies such as Viacom Inc., CBS Corporation, News
    Corporation, The Walt Disney Company, Tribune Company, The New
    York Times Company and NBC Universal. Major competitors include
    Yahoo! Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Google, IAC/ InterActiveCorp
    and eBay Inc. In addition, new properties such as YouTube,
    MySpace and Facebook that are able to gain large numbers of
    visitors and generate significant amounts of activity also
    compete with AOL.


 


    Advertising.com, which generates almost a quarter of AOL’s
    advertising revenues, competes with other aggregators of
    third-party inventory and other companies that offer competing
    advertising products, technology and services, such as 24/7 Real
    Media, Inc. and ValueClick, Inc. Competition affects the prices
    paid by Advertising.com for inventory and prices charged to
    advertisers for Advertising.com’s advertising products and
    services. In order for



    
    35



Table of Contents




    Advertising.com to remain competitive, it is important that
    Advertising.com offer compelling advertising products and
    technologies to the advertisers who are its customers.


 


    As part of its strategy, AOL has sold its Internet access
    operations in France and the U.K. and has agreed to do so in
    Germany, and, in conjunction with these sales, has maintained
    relationships with the purchasers to continue to provide its
    former subscribers with web services, including portals,
    e-mail and
    content. Accordingly, AOL Europe is reliant on the
    purchasers’ abilities to maintain relationships with these
    subscribers in order to generate web services activity and
    advertising revenues. In Europe, following the sales of its
    access operations businesses, AOL Europe’s competitors are
    Google, Microsoft Corporation and Yahoo! Inc. in its main
    markets, in addition to Web.de in Germany and Voila in France.
    Internationally, AOL expects to compete against local Internet
    and other web services companies as well as current
    U.S. competitors who have an established portal presence in
    these locations.


 


    Although AOL has implemented a new phase of its business
    strategy to shift to a primarily advertising-supported business
    model, AOL continues to operate in the Internet access business,
    and competes for subscription revenues with companies providing
    dial-up
    Internet service, including EarthLink, and discount ISPs such as
    NetZero. AOL also competes with companies providing Internet
    access via broadband technologies, such as cable companies and
    telephone companies, and companies offering emerging broadband
    access technologies, including wireless, mobile wireless, fiber
    optic cable and power line.


 


    AOL faces significant competition, primarily from the
    competitors identified above, in the distribution of its
    products and services in a cost effective manner. For example,
    AOL competes with other providers of portals and other Internet
    products and services to distribute and promote its products and
    services through high-speed Internet access networks, at retail
    outlets, on new computers, as well as via other distribution
    channels. AOL also competes to secure placement of its products
    and services on new computers and mobile devices, including
    cellular telephones and PDAs, to distribute and promote its
    products and services.


 


    There can be no assurance that AOL will be able to compete
    successfully in the future with existing or potential
    competitors or that competition will not have an adverse effect
    on its business or results of operations.


 


    If the Company’s AOL business is unable to acquire,
    develop or offer compelling applications, features, services,
    tools and content at reasonable costs, the size or value of its
    audience may not increase as anticipated, which could adversely
    affect its subscription and advertising
    revenue.  AOL believes that it must offer
    compelling and differentiated applications, features, services,
    tools and content to attract and retain subscribers and to
    attract Internet users to, and generate increased activity on,
    the AOL Network. Acquiring, developing and offering such
    applications, features, services, tools and content may require
    significant costs and effort to develop, while consumer tastes
    may be difficult to predict and are subject to rapid change. AOL
    also anticipates that subscribers and Internet users may demand
    an escalating quality of offerings. If AOL is unable to provide
    offerings that are compelling to subscribers and Internet users,
    the size and value of AOL’s audience may be adversely
    affected. With respect to search, a significant portion of
    AOL’s growth in advertising revenues has been attributable
    to its relationship with Google. AOL has agreed to use
    Google’s algorithmic search and sponsored links on an
    exclusive basis through December 19, 2010. Although AOL
    retains the ability to differentiate its search product from
    Google and other providers, competing search technologies may
    grow in popularity with consumers or businesses, and the
    exclusivity in certain circumstances may limit AOL’s
    flexibility to change providers of these products in the future.
    Furthermore, although AOL has access to certain content provided
    by the Company’s other businesses, it also may be required
    to make substantial payments to third parties from whom it
    licenses such content, and costs for such content may increase
    as a result of competition or for other reasons. Further, many
    of AOL’s content arrangements with third parties are
    non-exclusive, so competitors may be able to offer similar or
    identical content. AOL’s publication of user-created as
    well as third-party content may put AOL at increased risk of
    allegations of copyright infringement or other legal liability,
    and may cause AOL to incur significant monitoring or legal
    costs. These risks also could limit AOL’s ability to
    provide competitive content, features and tools. If AOL is
    unable to acquire or develop compelling content and do so at
    reasonable prices, or if other companies offer content that is
    similar to or the same as that provided by AOL, the size and
    value of AOL’s audience may be adversely affected. If the
    size and value of AOL’s audience do not increase
    significantly, AOL’s subscription and advertising revenue
    could be adversely affected.



    
    36



Table of Contents



 


    More individuals are using non-PC devices to access the
    Internet, and AOL must be able to secure placement of its
    services, applications and features on such devices, must ensure
    that they are compatible with the devices and must ensure that
    the AOL Network is accessible by users of non-PC
    devices.  The number of individuals who access
    the Internet through devices other than a personal computer,
    such as personal digital assistants or mobile telephones, has
    increased significantly. AOL needs to secure arrangements with
    the device manufacturers as well as the access providers or
    wireless carriers, as the case may be, in order to ensure
    placement of its services, applications and features on the
    non-PC devices. In addition, due to differences in memory,
    functionality and resolution, AOL must ensure that its services,
    applications and features are technologically compatible in
    order for them to be placed on such non-PC devices. Also, the
    websites, applications and services included in the AOL Network
    must be designed so that they are technologically compatible
    with the non-PC devices in order that users of these devices can
    access the AOL Network and engage in activity. If AOL is unable
    to place its services, applications and features on non-PC
    devices, or if AOL is unable to attract and retain a substantial
    number of alternative device users to use the AOL Network, it
    could have an adverse impact on AOL’s advertising,
    subscription or other revenue.


 


    Changes in international, federal, state and local tax
    laws and regulations, or interpretations of international,
    federal, state and local tax laws and regulations, could
    adversely affect AOL’s operating
    results.  International, federal, state and
    local tax laws and regulations affecting AOL’s business, or
    interpretations or application of these tax laws and
    regulations, could change. In addition, new international,
    federal, state and local tax laws and regulations affecting
    AOL’s business could be enacted. In December 2004, the
    U.S. federal government enacted the Internet Tax
    Nondiscrimination Act (or the ITNA), extending the moratorium on
    states and other local authorities imposing access or
    discriminatory taxes on the Internet through November 2007. If
    the ITNA is not extended or permanently enacted, state and local
    jurisdictions may seek to impose taxes on Internet access, other
    paid services or electronic commerce within their jurisdictions.
    These taxes could adversely affect AOL’s operating results.


 


    In addition, under a directive adopted by the European Union in
    July 2003, certain services are subject to a Value Added Tax, or
    VAT, which is levied based on the country from which the service
    is provided rather than the place of consumption. If the EU
    votes in the future to change its approach from the current
    “place of supply” to a “place of
    consumption” approach, AOL’s operating results could
    be adversely affected. In December 2006, the French tax
    authorities assessed VAT against a subsidiary of AOL, largely
    under a “place of consumption” theory that does not
    exist under current law. To the extent that a court adopts this
    new theory, AOL’s operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    New or changing federal, state or international privacy
    legislation or regulation could hinder the growth of AOL’s
    business.  A variety of federal, state and
    international laws govern the collection and use of customer
    data that AOL uses to operate its services and to help deliver
    advertisements to its customers. Not only are existing
    privacy-related laws in these jurisdictions evolving and subject
    to potentially disparate interpretation by governmental
    entities, new legislative proposals affecting privacy are now
    pending at both the federal and state level in the
    U.S. Changes to the interpretation of existing law or the
    adoption of new privacy-related requirements could hinder the
    growth of AOL’s business.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S CABLE BUSINESS


 


    TWC faces certain challenges relating to the integration
    of the systems acquired in the Adelphia acquisition and related
    transactions with Comcast into its existing
    systems.  The successful integration of the
    Acquired Systems will depend primarily on TWC’s ability to
    manage the combined operations and integrate into its operations
    the Acquired Systems (including management information,
    marketing, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing,
    customer support and product distribution infrastructure,
    personnel, payroll and benefits, regulatory compliance and
    technology systems). The integration of these systems, including
    the upgrade of certain portions of the Acquired Systems requires
    significant capital expenditures and may require TWC to use
    financial resources it would otherwise devote to other business
    initiatives, including marketing, customer care, the development
    of new products and services and the expansion of its existing
    cable systems. While TWC has planned for certain capital
    expenditures for, among other things, improvements to plant and
    technical performance and



    
    37



Table of Contents




    upgrading system capacity of the Acquired Systems, TWC may be
    required to spend more than anticipated for those purposes.
    Furthermore, these integration efforts may require more
    attention from TWC’s management and impose greater strains
    on its technical resources than anticipated. If TWC fails to
    successfully integrate the Acquired Systems, it could have a
    material adverse effect on its business and financial results.


 


    Additionally, to the extent TWC encounters significant
    difficulties in integrating systems or other operations, its
    customer care efforts may be hampered. For instance, TWC may
    experience
    higher-than-normal
    call volumes under such circumstances, which might interfere
    with its ability to take orders, assist customers not impacted
    by the integration difficulties and conduct other ordinary
    course activities. In addition, depending on the scope of the
    difficulties, TWC may be the subject of negative press reports
    or customer perception.


 


    TWC has entered into transitional services arrangements with
    Comcast under which Comcast has agreed to assist TWC by
    providing certain services in the applicable Acquired Systems as
    TWC integrates those systems into its existing systems. Any
    failure by Comcast to perform under these agreements may cause
    the integration of the applicable Acquired Systems to be delayed
    and may increase the amount of time and money TWC needs to
    devote to the integration of such systems.


 


    TWC may not realize the anticipated benefits of the
    Adelphia acquisition
    and/or
    related transactions with Comcast.  The
    Adelphia acquisition and related transactions with Comcast have
    combined cable systems that were previously owned and operated
    by three different companies. Time Warner expects that TWC will
    realize cost savings and other financial and operating benefits
    as a result of the transactions. However, due to the complexity
    of and risks relating to the integration of these systems, among
    other factors, Time Warner cannot predict with certainty when
    these cost savings and benefits will occur or the extent to
    which they actually will be achieved, if at all.


 


    TWC faces risks inherent to its voice services
    business.  TWC may encounter unforeseen
    difficulties as it introduces its voice services in new
    operating areas, including the systems acquired from Adelphia
    and Comcast,
    and/or
    increases the scale of its voice service offerings in areas in
    which they have already been launched. First, TWC faces
    heightened customer expectations for the reliability of voice
    services as compared with its video and high-speed data
    services. TWC has undertaken significant training of customer
    service representatives and technicians, and it will continue to
    need a highly trained workforce. To ensure reliable service, TWC
    may need to increase its expenditures, including spending on
    technology, equipment and personnel. If the service is not
    sufficiently reliable or TWC otherwise fails to meet customer
    expectations, its voice services business could be adversely
    affected. Second, the competitive landscape for voice services
    is intense; TWC faces competition from providers of Internet
    phone services, as well as incumbent local telephone companies,
    cellular telephone service providers and others. See
    “— TWC faces a wide range of competition, which
    could affect its future results of operations.” Third,
    TWC’s voice services depend on interconnection and related
    services provided by certain third parties. As a result, its
    ability to implement changes as the services grow may be
    limited. Finally, TWC expects advances in communications
    technology, as well as changes in the marketplace and the
    regulatory and legislative environment. Consequently, the
    Company is unable to predict the effect that ongoing or future
    developments in these areas might have on TWC’s voice
    services business and operations.


 


    In addition, TWC’s launch of voice services in the Acquired
    Systems may pose certain risks. TWC will be unable to provide
    its voice services in some of the Acquired Systems without first
    upgrading the facilities. Additionally, it may need to obtain
    certain services from third parties prior to deploying voice
    services in the Acquired Systems. If TWC encounters difficulties
    or significant delays in launching voice services in the
    Acquired Systems, its business and financial results may be
    adversely affected.


 


    Increases in programming costs could adversely affect
    TWC’s operations, business or financial
    results.  Programming has been, and is
    expected to continue to be, one of TWC’s largest operating
    expense items for the foreseeable future. In recent years, TWC
    has experienced significant increases in the cost of
    programming, particularly sports programming. TWC’s
    programming cost increases are expected to continue due to a
    variety of factors, including inflationary and negotiated annual
    increases, additional programming being provided to subscribers,
    and increased costs to purchase new programming.


 


    Programming cost increases that TWC is unable to pass on fully
    to its subscribers have had, and will continue to have, an
    adverse impact on cash flow and operating margins. In addition,
    such increases could have an adverse



    
    38



Table of Contents




    impact on cash flow and operating margins from new video
    products and services. Current and future programming providers
    that provide content that is desirable to TWC subscribers may
    enter into exclusive affiliation agreements with TWC’s
    cable and non-cable competitors and may be unwilling to enter
    into affiliation agreements with TWC on acceptable terms, if at
    all.


 


    In addition, increased demands by owners of some broadcast
    stations for carriage of other services or payments to those
    broadcasters for retransmission consent could further increase
    TWC’s programming costs. Federal law allows commercial
    television broadcast stations to make an election between
    “must-carry” rights and an alternative
    “retransmission-consent” regime. When a station opts
    for the latter, cable operators are not allowed to carry the
    station’s signal without the station’s permission. TWC
    currently has multi-year agreements with most, but not all, of
    the retransmission-consent stations that it carries. In some
    cases, TWC carries stations under short-term arrangements while
    it attempts to negotiate new long-term retransmission
    agreements. If negotiations with these programmers prove
    unsuccessful, they could require TWC to cease carrying their
    signals, possibly for an indefinite period. Any loss of stations
    could make TWC’s video service less attractive to
    subscribers, which could result in less subscription and
    advertising revenue. In retransmission-consent negotiations,
    broadcasters often condition consent with respect to one station
    on carriage of one or more other stations or programming
    services in which they or their affiliates have an interest.
    Carriage of these other services may increase TWC’s
    programming expenses and diminish the amount of capacity it has
    available to introduce new services, which could have an adverse
    effect on its business and financial results.


 


    TWC faces a wide range of competition, which could affect
    its future results of operations.  TWC’s
    industry is and will continue to be highly competitive. Some of
    TWC’s principal competitors — in particular,
    direct broadcast satellite operators and incumbent local
    telephone companies — either offer or are making
    significant capital investments that will allow them to offer
    services that provide directly comparable features and functions
    to those TWC offers, and they are aggressively seeking to offer
    them in bundles similar to TWC’s.


 


    Incumbent local telephone companies have recently increased
    their efforts to provide video services. The two major incumbent
    local telephone companies — AT&T Inc.
    (“AT&T”) and Verizon Communications, Inc.
    (“Verizon”) — have both announced that they
    intend to make fiber upgrades of their networks, although each
    is using a different architecture. AT&T is expected to
    utilize one of a number of fiber architectures, including the
    fiber-to-the-node
    (or FTTN) network, and Verizon utilizes a fiber architecture
    known as
    fiber-to-the-home
    (or FTTH). Some upgraded portions of these networks are or will
    be capable of carrying two-way video services that are
    technically comparable to TWC’s, high-speed data services
    that operate at speeds as high or higher than those TWC makes
    available to customers in these areas and digital voice services
    that are similar to TWC’s. In addition, these companies
    continue to offer their traditional phone services as well as
    bundles that include wireless voice services provided by
    affiliated companies. In areas where they have launched video
    services, these parties are aggressively marketing video, voice
    and data bundles at entry level prices similar to those TWC uses
    to market its bundles.


 


    TWC’s video business faces intense competition from direct
    broadcast satellite providers. These providers compete with TWC
    based on aggressive promotional pricing and exclusive
    programming (e.g., “NFL Sunday Ticket,” which is not
    available to cable operators). Direct broadcast satellite
    programming is comparable in many respects to TWC’s analog
    and digital video services, including its DVR service. In
    addition, the two largest direct broadcast satellite providers
    offer some interactive programming features. These providers are
    working to increase the number of HDTV channels they offer in
    order to differentiate their service from services offered by
    cable operators.


 


    In some areas, incumbent local telephone companies and direct
    broadcast satellite operators have entered into co-marketing
    arrangements that allow both parties to offer synthetic bundles
    (i.e., video services provided principally by the direct
    broadcast satellite operator, and digital subscriber line
    (“DSL”) and traditional phone service offered by the
    telephone companies). From a consumer standpoint, the synthetic
    bundles appear similar to TWC’s bundles and result in a
    single bill. AT&T is offering a service in some areas that
    utilizes direct broadcast satellite video but in an integrated
    package with AT&T’s DSL product, which enables an
    Internet-based return path that allows the user to order a
    VOD-like product and other services that TWC provides using its
    two-way network.



    
    39



Table of Contents



 


    TWC operates its cable systems under non-exclusive franchises
    granted by state or local authorities. The existence of more
    than one cable system operating in the same territory is
    referred to as an “overbuild.” In some of TWC’s
    operating areas, other operators have overbuilt its systems and
    offer video, data
    and/or voice
    services in competition with TWC.


 


    In addition to these competitors, TWC faces competition on
    individual services from a range of competitors. For instance,
    its video service faces competition from providers of paid
    television services (such as satellite master antenna services)
    and from video delivered over the Internet. TWC’s
    high-speed data service faces competition from, among others,
    incumbent local telephone companies utilizing their
    newly-upgraded
    fiber networks
    and/or DSL
    lines, Wi-Fi, Wi-Max and 3G wireless broadband services provided
    by mobile carriers such as Verizon Wireless, broadband over
    power line providers, and from providers of traditional
    dial-up
    Internet access. TWC’s voice service faces competition for
    voice customers from incumbent local telephone companies,
    cellular telephone service providers, Internet phone providers,
    such as Vonage, and others.


 


    Any inability to compete effectively or an increase in
    competition with respect to video, voice or high-speed data
    services could have an adverse effect on TWC’s financial
    results and return on capital expenditures due to possible
    increases in the cost of gaining and retaining subscribers and
    lower per subscriber revenue, could slow or cause a decline in
    TWC’s growth rates, reduce its revenues, reduce the number
    of its subscribers or reduce its ability to increase penetration
    rates for services. As TWC expands and introduces new and
    enhanced products and services, it may be subject to competition
    from other providers of those products and services, such as
    telecommunications providers, Internet service providers and
    consumer electronics companies, among others. TWC cannot predict
    the extent to which this competition will affect its future
    financial results or return on capital expenditures.


 


    Future advances in technology, as well as changes in the
    marketplace and in the regulatory and legislative environments,
    may result in changes to the competitive landscape.


 


    The Internal Revenue Service and state and local tax
    authorities may challenge the tax characterizations of the
    Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions or the Exchange, or
    related valuations, and any successful challenge by the Internal
    Revenue Service or state or local tax authorities could
    materially adversely affect Time Warner’s tax profile,
    significantly increase its future cash tax payments and
    significantly reduce its future earnings and cash
    flow.  The Adelphia Acquisition was designed
    to be a fully taxable asset sale, the TWC Redemption was
    designed to qualify as a tax-free split-off under
    section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
    amended (the “Tax Code”), the TWE Redemption was
    designed as a redemption of Comcast’s partnership interest
    in TWE, and the Exchange was designed as an exchange of
    designated cable systems. There can be no assurance, however,
    that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or state
    or local tax authorities (together with the IRS, the “Tax
    Authorities”) will not challenge one or more of such
    characterizations or the related valuations. Such a successful
    challenge by the Tax Authorities could materially adversely
    affect Time Warner’s tax profile (including its ability to
    recognize the intended tax benefits from these transactions),
    significantly increase its future cash tax payments and
    significantly reduce its future earnings and cash flow. The tax
    consequences of the Adelphia Acquisition, the Redemptions and
    the Exchange are complex and, in many cases, subject to
    significant uncertainties, including, but not limited to,
    uncertainties regarding the application of federal, state and
    local income tax laws to various transactions and events
    contemplated therein and regarding matters relating to valuation.


 


    TWC’s business is subject to extensive governmental
    regulation, which could adversely affect its
    business.  TWC’s video and voice services
    are subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and
    local levels. In addition, the federal government has been
    exploring possible regulation of high-speed data services.
    Additional regulation, including regulation relating to rates,
    equipment, programming, levels and types of services, taxes and
    other charges, could have an adverse impact on TWC’s
    services.


 


    TWC expects that legislative enactments, court actions, and
    regulatory proceedings will continue to clarify and in some
    cases change the rights of cable companies and other entities
    providing video, data and voice services under the
    Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications
    Act”), and other laws, possibly in ways that it



    
    40



Table of Contents




    has not foreseen. The results of these legislative, judicial,
    and administrative actions may materially affect TWC’s
    business operations in areas such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Cable Franchising.  At the federal
    level, various provisions have been introduced in connection
    with broader Communications Act reform that would streamline the
    video franchising process to facilitate entry by new
    competitors. To date, no such measures have been adopted by
    Congress. In December 2006, the FCC adopted an order in which
    the agency concluded that the current franchise approval process
    constitutes an unreasonable barrier to entry that impedes the
    development of cable competition and broadband deployment. As a
    result, the agency adopted new rules intended to limit the
    ability of county- and municipal-level franchising authorities
    to delay or refuse the grant of competitive franchises. Among
    other things, the new rules: establish deadlines for franchising
    authorities to act on applications; prohibit franchising
    authorities from placing unreasonable build-out demands on
    applicants; specify that certain fees, costs, and other
    compensation to franchising authorities will count towards the
    statutory five-percent cap on franchise fees; prohibit
    franchising authorities from requiring applicants to undertake
    certain obligations concerning the provision of public,
    educational, and governmental access programming and
    institutional networks; and preempt local level-playing-field
    regulations, and similar provisions, to the extent they impose
    restrictions on applicants that are greater than those set forth
    in the FCC’s new rules.





 


    At the state level, several states, including California, New
    Jersey, North Carolina, South Carolina and Texas, have enacted
    statutes intended to streamline entry by additional video
    competitors. Some of these statutes provide more favorable
    treatment to new entrants than to existing providers. Similar
    bills are pending or may be enacted in additional states. To the
    extent federal or state laws or regulations facilitate
    additional competitive entry or create more favorable regulatory
    treatment for new entrants, TWC’s operations could be
    materially and adversely affected.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    À la carte Video Services.  There
    has from time to time been federal legislative interest in
    requiring cable operators to offer historically bundled
    programming services on an à la carte basis. Currently, no
    such legislation is pending. In November 2004, the FCC released
    a study concluding that à la carte would raise costs for
    consumers and reduce programming choices. In February 2006, the
    FCC’s Media Bureau issued a revised report that concluded,
    contrary to the findings of the earlier study, that à la
    carte could be beneficial in some instances. There are no
    pending proceedings related to à la carte at the FCC.



 


     
        • 

    
    Carriage Regulations.  In 2005, the FCC
    reaffirmed its earlier decisions rejecting multicasting (i.e.,
    carriage of more than one program stream per broadcaster) and
    dual carriage (i.e., carriage of both digital and analog
    broadcast signals) requirements with respect to carriage of
    broadcast signals pursuant to must-carry rules. Certain parties
    filed petitions for reconsideration. To date, no action has been
    taken on these reconsideration petitions, and TWC is unable to
    predict what requirements, if any, the FCC might adopt. In
    addition, the FCC is expected to launch proceedings related to
    leased access and program carriage. With respect to leased
    access, the FCC is expected to seek comment on how leased access
    is being used in the marketplace, and whether any rule changes
    are necessary to better effectuate statutory objectives. With
    respect to program carriage, the FCC is expected to examine its
    procedural rules, and assess whether modifications are needed to
    achieve more timely decisions in response to program carriage
    complaints. TWC is unable to predict whether these expected
    proceedings will lead to any changes in existing regulations.



 


     
        • 

    
    Voice Communications.  Traditional
    providers of voice services generally are subject to significant
    regulations. It is unclear to what extent those regulations (or
    other regulations) apply to providers of nontraditional voice
    services, including TWC’s voice services. In 2004, the FCC
    sought public comment regarding how Voice-over Internet Protocol
    should be classified for purposes of the Communications Act, and
    how it should be regulated. To date, however, the FCC has not
    issued an order comprehensively resolving these issues. Instead,
    the FCC has addressed certain individual issues on a piecemeal
    basis. In particular, the FCC declared in 2004 that certain
    nontraditional voice services are not subject to state
    certification or tariffing obligations. The full extent of this
    preemption is unclear and the validity of the preemption order
    has been appealed to a federal appellate court where a decision
    is pending. In orders in 2005 and 2006, the FCC subjected
    nontraditional voice service providers to obligations to provide
    911






    
    41



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    emergency service, to accommodate law enforcement requests for
    information and wiretapping and to contribute to the federal
    universal service fund. TWC was already operating in accordance
    with these requirements at that time. To the extent that the FCC
    (or the United States Congress) imposes additional burdens,
    TWC’s operations could be adversely affected.





 


    “Net neutrality” legislation or regulation could
    limit TWC’s ability to operate its high-speed data business
    profitably, to manage its broadband facilities efficiently and
    to make upgrades to those facilities sufficient to respond to
    growing bandwidth usage by its high-speed data
    customers.  Several disparate groups have
    adopted the term “net neutrality” in connection with
    their efforts to persuade Congress and regulators to adopt rules
    that could limit the ability of broadband providers to manage
    their networks efficiently and profitably. Although the
    positions taken by these groups are not well defined and are
    sometimes inconsistent with one another, most would directly or
    indirectly limit the ability of broadband providers to apply
    differential pricing or network management policies to different
    uses of the Internet. Proponents of such regulation also seek to
    prohibit broadband providers from recovering the costs of rising
    bandwidth usage from any parties other than retail customers.
    The average bandwidth usage of TWC’s high-speed data
    customers has been increasing significantly in recent years as
    the amount of high bandwidth content and the number of
    applications available on the Internet continues to grow. In
    order to continue to provide quality service at attractive
    prices, TWC needs the continued flexibility to develop and
    refine business models that respond to changing consumer uses
    and demands, to manage bandwidth usage efficiently and to make
    upgrades to its broadband facilities. As a result, depending on
    the form it might take, “net neutrality” legislation
    or regulation could impact TWC’s ability to operate its
    high-speed data network profitably and to undertake the upgrades
    that may be needed to continue to provide high quality
    high-speed data services. TWC is unable to predict the
    likelihood that such regulatory proposals will be adopted.


 


    The FCC’s set-top box rules could impose significant
    additional costs on TWC.  Currently, many
    cable subscribers rent set-top boxes from TWC that perform both
    signal-reception functions and conditional-access security
    functions, as well as enable delivery of advanced services. In
    1996, Congress enacted a statute seeking to allow cable
    subscribers to use set-top boxes obtained from certain third
    parties, including third-party retailers. The most important of
    the FCC’s implementing regulations requires cable operators
    to offer separate equipment that provides only the security
    functions and not the signal-reception functions (so that cable
    subscribers can purchase set-top boxes or other navigational
    devices from third parties) and to cease placing into service
    new set-top boxes that have integrated security and
    signal-reception functions. The regulations requiring cable
    operators to cease distributing new set-top boxes with
    integrated security and signal-reception functions are currently
    scheduled to go into effect on July 1, 2007. On
    August 16, 2006, the National Cable and Telecommunications
    Association filed with the FCC a request that these rules be
    waived for all cable operators, including TWC, until a
    downloadable security solution is available or December 31,
    2009, whichever is earlier. No assurance can be given that the
    FCC will grant this or any other waiver request.


 


    TWC’s vendors have not yet manufactured, on a commercial
    scale, set-top boxes that can support all the services that TWC
    offers while relying on separate security devices. It is
    possible that TWC’s vendors will be unable to deliver the
    necessary set-top boxes in time for TWC to comply with the FCC
    regulations. It is also possible that the FCC will determine
    that the set-top boxes that TWC eventually obtains are not
    compliant with applicable rules. In either case, the FCC may
    penalize TWC. In addition, design and manufacture of the new
    set-top boxes will come at a significant expense, which
    TWC’s vendors will seek to pass on to TWC, but which TWC in
    turn may not be able to pass on to its customers, thereby
    increasing its costs. The Company expects that TWC will incur
    approximately $50 million in incremental set-top box costs
    during 2007 as a result of these regulations. The FCC has
    indicated that direct broadcast satellite operators are not
    required to comply with the FCC’s set-top box rules, and
    one telephone company has asked for a waiver of the rules. If
    TWC has to comply with the rule prohibiting set-top boxes with
    integrated security while its competitors are not required to
    comply with that rule, TWC may be at a competitive disadvantage.



    
    42



Table of Contents



 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO BOTH THE TIME WARNER
    NETWORKS AND FILMED ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES


 


    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments must
    respond to recent and future changes in technology, services and
    standards to remain competitive and continue to increase their
    revenue.  Technology in the video,
    telecommunications and data services used in the entertainment
    industry is changing rapidly, and advances in technology, such
    as
    video-on-demand,
    new video formats and distribution via the Internet, have led to
    alternative methods of product delivery and storage. Certain
    changes in consumer behavior driven by these methods of delivery
    and storage could have a negative effect on the revenue of the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. For example, devices
    that allow users to view television programs or motion pictures
    from a remote location may cause changes in consumer behavior
    that could negatively affect the subscription revenue of cable
    and DTH satellite operators and therefore have a corresponding
    negative effect on the subscription revenue generated by the
    Networks segment and the licensing revenue generated by the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Devices that enable
    users to view television programs or motion pictures on a
    time-delayed basis or allow them to fast-forward or skip
    advertisements may cause changes in consumer behavior that could
    adversely affect the advertising revenue of the
    advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment and have
    an indirect negative impact on the licensing revenue generated
    by the Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by
    Home Box Office from the licensing of its original
    programming in syndication and to basic cable channels. In
    addition, further increased use of portable digital devices that
    allow users to view content of their own choice, at a time of
    their choice, while avoiding traditional commercial
    advertisements, could adversely affect such advertising and
    licensing revenue.


 


    Technological developments also pose other challenges for the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments that could adversely
    impact their revenue and competitive position. For example, the
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments may not have the
    right, and may not be able to secure the right, to distribute
    their licensed content across new delivery platforms that are
    developed. In addition, technological developments could enable
    third-party owners of programming to bypass traditional content
    aggregators, such as the Turner networks and Home
    Box Office, and deal directly with cable and DTH satellite
    operators or other businesses that develop to offer content to
    viewers. Such limitations on the ability of the segments to
    distribute their content could have an adverse impact on their
    revenue. Cable system and DTH satellite operators are developing
    new techniques that enable them to transmit more channels on
    their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing
    the cost of creating channels and potentially furthering the
    development of more specialized niche audiences. A greater
    number of options increases competition for viewers, and
    competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences
    may improve their competitive position compared to the Networks
    and Filmed Entertainment segments for television advertising and
    for subscription and licensing revenue. In addition, traditional
    ratings measures are likely to change with emerging technologies
    that can measure viewing audiences with improved sensitivity.
    These changes could result in changes to measured audiences,
    especially in the local geographic regions measured by Nielsen
    Media Research. Any decrease in measured audiences could
    adversely affect the advertising revenue of the
    advertising-supported networks in the Networks segment and have
    a negative impact on the licensing revenue generated by the
    Filmed Entertainment segment and the revenue generated by Home
    Box Office from the licensing of its original programming
    in syndication and to basic cable channels. The ability to
    anticipate and adapt to changes in technology on a timely basis
    and exploit new sources of revenue from these changes will
    affect the ability of the Networks and Filmed Entertainment
    segments to continue to grow and increase their revenue.


 


    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments operate in
    highly competitive industries.  The
    Company’s Networks and Filmed Entertainment businesses
    generate revenue through the production and distribution of
    feature films, television programming and home video products,
    licensing fees, the sale of advertising and subscriber fees paid
    by affiliates. Competition faced by the businesses within these
    segments is intense and comes from many different sources. For
    example:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete with
    other television programming services for marketing and
    distribution by cable and other distribution systems.



 


     
        • 

    
    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete for
    viewers’ attention and audience share with other forms of
    programming provided to viewers, including broadcast networks,
    local
    over-the-air
    television stations, pay and basic cable television services,
    motion pictures, home video,
    pay-per-view
    and






    
    43



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    video-on-demand
    services, Internet streaming and downloading and other online
    activities and other forms of news, information and
    entertainment.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Networks segment faces competition for programming with
    commercial television networks, independent stations, and pay
    and basic cable television services, some of which have
    exclusive contracts with motion picture studios and independent
    motion picture distributors.



 


     
        • 

    
    The production divisions in the Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments compete with other producers and
    distributors of television programming for air time on broadcast
    networks, independent commercial television stations, and cable
    television and DTH satellite networks.



 


     
        • 

    
    The production divisions in the Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments compete with other production companies
    for the services of producers, directors, writers, actors and
    others and for the acquisition of literary properties.



 


     
        • 

    
    The advertising-supported networks and Turner’s Internet
    sites in the Networks segment compete for advertising with
    numerous direct competitors and other media.



 


     
        • 

    
    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete in their
    character merchandising and other licensing activities with
    other licensors of character, brand and celebrity names.



 


     
        • 

    
    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments compete for
    viewers’ attention with other forms of entertainment and
    leisure time activities, including video games, the Internet and
    other computer-related activities.





 


    The ability of the Company’s Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments to compete successfully depends on many
    factors, including their ability to provide high-quality and
    popular entertainment product and their ability to achieve high
    distribution levels. There has been consolidation in the media
    industry, and the Company’s Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments’ competitors include industry
    participants with interests in other multiple media businesses
    that are often vertically integrated. Vertical integration of
    other television networks and television and film production
    companies could adversely impact the Networks segment if it
    hinders the ability of the Networks segment to obtain
    programming for its networks. In addition, if purchasers of
    programming increasingly purchase their programming from
    production companies with which they are affiliated, such
    vertical integration could have a negative effect on the Filmed
    Entertainment segment’s licensing revenue. Furthermore, as
    described above, there is increased competition in the
    television industry evidenced by the increasing number and
    variety of broadcast networks and basic cable and pay television
    programming services now available. Although this increase could
    result in greater licensing revenue for the Filmed Entertainment
    segment, it also could result in higher licensing costs for the
    Networks segment. There can be no assurance that the Networks
    and Filmed Entertainment segments will be able to compete
    successfully in the future against existing or potential
    competitors, or that competition will not have an adverse effect
    on their businesses or results of operations.


 


    The popularity of the Company’s television programs
    and films and other factors is difficult to predict and could
    lead to fluctuations in the revenue of the Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments.  Television program
    and film production and distribution are inherently risky
    businesses largely because the revenue derived from the
    production and distribution of a television program or motion
    picture, as well as the licensing of rights to the intellectual
    property associated with a program or film, depends primarily on
    its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The
    commercial success of a television program or feature film also
    depends on the quality and acceptance of other competing
    programs and films released at or near the same time, the
    availability of alternate forms of entertainment and leisure
    time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible
    and intangible factors, many of which are difficult to predict.
    In the case of the Turner networks, audience sizes are also
    factors that are weighed when determining their advertising
    rates. Poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a
    reduction in pricing and advertising spending. Further, the
    theatrical success of a motion picture may affect revenue from
    other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and pay
    television programming services, and sales of licensed consumer
    products. Therefore, low public acceptance of the television
    programs or feature films of the Networks and Filmed
    Entertainment segments may adversely affect their respective
    results of operations.



    
    44



Table of Contents



 


    The Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments are subject
    to potential labor interruption.  The Networks
    and Filmed Entertainment segments and certain of their suppliers
    retain the services of writers, directors, actors, trade
    employees and others involved in the production of motion
    pictures and television programs who are covered by collective
    bargaining agreements. The segments’ collective bargaining
    agreement with the Writer’s Guild of America (East and
    West) expires on October 31, 2007. Additionally, there are
    a number of other production-related bargaining groups whose
    contracts expire throughout 2007. If expiring collective
    bargaining agreements are not renewed, it is possible that the
    affected unions and other groups could take action in the form
    of strikes, work slowdowns or work stoppages. Such actions could
    cause delays in the production or the release dates of the
    segments’ television programs or feature films as well as
    higher costs resulting either from such action or less favorable
    terms of these agreements on renewal.


 


    Although piracy poses risks to several of Time
    Warner’s businesses, such risks are especially significant
    for the Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments due to the
    prevalence of piracy of feature films and television
    programming.  See “Risks Relating to Time
    Warner Generally — Piracy of the Company’s
    feature films, television programming and other content may
    decrease the revenues received from the exploitation of the
    Company’s entertainment content and adversely affect its
    business and profitability.”


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S FILMED ENTERTAINMENT
    BUSINESS


 


    DVD sales have been declining, which may adversely affect
    the Filmed Entertainment segment’s growth prospects and
    results of operations.  Several factors,
    including increasing competition for consumer discretionary
    spending, piracy, the maturation of the DVD format, increased
    competition for retailer shelf space and the fragmentation of
    consumer leisure time, may be contributing to an industry-wide
    decline in DVD sales both domestically and internationally. DVD
    sales also may be affected as consumers increasingly shift from
    consuming physical entertainment products to digital forms of
    entertainment. The filmed entertainment industry faces a
    challenge in managing the transition from physical to digital
    formats in a manner that continues to support the current DVD
    business and its relationships with large retail customers and
    yet meets the relatively small, but growing, consumer demand for
    delivery of filmed entertainment in a variety of digital
    formats. The high definition format war between the HD DVD and
    Blu-ray formats may slow consumer adoption of those technologies
    and may likewise result in increased competition for retailer
    shelf space. There can be no assurance that home video wholesale
    prices can be maintained at current levels, due to aggressive
    retail pricing, digital competition and other factors. A
    continuing decline in DVD sales could have an adverse impact on
    the segment’s results of operations and growth prospects.


 


    The Filmed Entertainment segment’s strategy includes
    the release of a limited number of “event” films each
    year, and the underperformance of one or more of these films
    could have an adverse effect on the Filmed Entertainment
    segment’s results of operations and financial
    condition.  The Filmed Entertainment segment
    expects to theatrically release a limited number of feature
    films each year that are expected to be “event” or
    “tent-pole” films and that generally have higher
    production and marketing costs than the other films released
    during the year. The underperformance of one of these films can
    have an adverse impact on the segment’s results of
    operations in both the year of release and in the future.
    Historically, there has been a correlation between domestic box
    office success and international box office success, as well as
    a correlation between box office success and success in the
    subsequent distribution channels of home video and television.
    If the segment’s films fail to achieve box office success,
    the results of operations and financial condition of the Filmed
    Entertainment segment could be adversely affected. Further,
    there can be no assurance that these historical correlations
    will continue in the future.


 


    The costs of producing and marketing feature films have
    increased and may increase in the future, which may make it more
    difficult for a film to generate a
    profit.  The production and marketing of
    feature films require substantial capital, and the costs of
    producing and marketing feature films have generally increased
    in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the
    future, which may make it more difficult for the segment’s
    films to generate a profit. As production and marketing costs
    increase, it creates a greater need to generate revenue
    internationally or from other media, such as home video,
    television and new media.


 


    Changes in estimates of future revenues from feature films
    could result in the write-off or the acceleration of the
    amortization of film production costs.  The
    Filmed Entertainment segment is required to amortize



    
    45



Table of Contents




    capitalized film production costs over the expected revenue
    streams as it recognizes revenue from the associated films. The
    amount of film production costs that will be amortized each
    quarter depends on how much future revenue the segment expects
    to receive from each film. Unamortized film production costs are
    evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a
    film-by-film
    basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to
    recover the unamortized film production costs plus expected but
    unincurred marketing costs, the unamortized film production
    costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter,
    if the segment lowers its forecast with respect to total
    anticipated revenue from any individual feature film, it would
    be required to accelerate amortization of related film costs.
    Such a write-down or accelerated amortization could adversely
    impact the operating results of the Filmed Entertainment segment.


 


    A decrease in demand for television product could
    adversely affect Warner Bros.’
    revenues.  Warner Bros. is a leading supplier
    of television programming. If there is a decrease in the demand
    for Warner Bros.’ television product, it could lead to the
    launch of fewer new television series and a reduction in the
    number of original programs ordered by the networks and the
    per-episode license fees generated by Warner Bros. in the near
    term. In addition, such a decrease in demand could lead to a
    reduction in syndication revenues in the future. Various factors
    may increase the risk of such a decrease in demand, including
    station group consolidation and vertical integration between
    station groups and broadcast networks, as well as the vertical
    integration between television production studios and broadcast
    networks, which can increase the networks’ reliance on
    their in-house or affiliated studios. In addition, the move of
    viewers and advertisers away from network television to other
    entertainment and information outlets could adversely affect the
    amount of original programming ordered by networks and the
    amount they are willing to pay for such programming. Local
    television stations may face loss of viewership and an
    accompanying loss of advertising revenue as viewers move to
    other entertainment outlets, which may negatively impact the
    segment’s ability to obtain the per-episode license fees in
    syndication that it has received in the past. Finally, the
    increasing popularity of local television content in
    international markets also could result in decreased demand,
    fewer available broadcast slots, and lower licensing and
    syndication revenue for U.S. television content.



    
    46



Table of Contents





    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S NETWORKS BUSINESS


 


    The loss of affiliation agreements could cause the revenue
    of the Networks segment to decline in any given period, and
    further consolidation of multichannel video programming
    distributors could adversely affect the
    segment.  The Networks segment depends on
    affiliation agreements with cable system and DTH satellite
    operators for the distribution of its networks, and there can be
    no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed
    in the future on terms that are acceptable to the Networks
    segment. The renewal of such agreements on less favorable terms
    may adversely affect the segment’s results of operations.
    In addition, the loss of any one of these arrangements
    representing a significant number of subscribers or the loss of
    carriage on the most widely penetrated programming tiers could
    reduce the distribution of the segment’s programming, which
    may adversely affect its advertising and subscription revenue.
    The loss of favorable packaging, positioning, pricing or other
    marketing opportunities with any distributor of the
    segment’s networks also could reduce subscription revenue.
    In addition, further consolidation among cable system and DTH
    satellite operators has provided greater negotiating power to
    such distributors, and increased vertical integration of such
    distributors could adversely affect the segment’s ability
    to maintain or obtain distribution
    and/or
    marketing for its networks on commercially reasonable terms, or
    at all.


 


    The inability of the Networks segment to license rights to
    popular programming or create popular original programming could
    adversely affect the segment’s
    revenue.  The Networks segment obtains a
    significant portion of its popular programming from third
    parties. For example, some of Turner’s most widely viewed
    programming, including sports programming, is made available
    based on programming rights of varying durations that it has
    negotiated with third parties. Home Box Office also enters
    into commitments to acquire rights to feature films and other
    programming for its HBO and Cinemax pay television programming
    services from feature film producers and other suppliers for
    varying durations. Competition for popular programming licensed
    from third parties is intense, and the businesses in the segment
    may be outbid by their competitors for the rights to new popular
    programming or in connection with the renewal of popular
    programming they currently license. In addition, renewal costs
    could substantially exceed the existing contract costs.
    Alternatively, third parties from which the segment obtains
    programming, such as professional sports teams or leagues, could
    create their own networks.


 


    The operating results of the Networks segment also fluctuate
    with the popularity of its programming with the public, which is
    difficult to predict. Revenue from the segment’s businesses
    is therefore partially dependent on the segment’s ability
    to develop strong brand awareness and to target key areas of the
    television viewing audience, including both newer demographics
    and preferences for particular genres, as well as its ability to
    continue to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes
    and behavior on a timely basis. Moreover, the Networks segment
    derives a portion of its revenue from the exploitation of the
    Company’s library of feature films, animated titles and
    television titles. If the content of the Company’s
    programming libraries ceases to be of interest to audiences or
    is not continuously replenished with popular original content,
    the revenue of the Networks segment could be adversely affected.


 


    Increases in the costs of programming licenses and other
    significant costs may adversely affect the gross margins of the
    Networks segment.  As described above, the
    Networks segment licenses a significant amount of its
    programming, such as motion pictures, television series, and
    sports events, from movie studios, television production
    companies and sports organizations. For example, the Turner
    networks license the rights to broadcast significant sports
    events such as the NBA play-offs and a series of NASCAR races.
    In addition, Home Box Office relies on film studios for a
    significant portion of its content. If the level of demand for
    quality content exceeds the amount of quality content available,
    the networks may have to pay significantly higher licensing
    costs, which in turn will exert greater pressure on the segment
    to offset such increased costs with higher advertising
    and/or
    subscription revenue. There can be no assurance that the
    Networks segment will be able to renew existing or enter into
    additional license agreements for its programming and, if so, if
    it will be able to do so on terms that are similar to existing
    terms. There also can be no assurance that it will be able to
    obtain the rights to distribute the content it licenses over new
    distribution platforms on acceptable terms. If it is unable to
    obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable
    terms, the gross margins of the Networks segment may be
    adversely affected.


 


    The Networks segment also produces programming, and it incurs
    costs for new show concepts and all types of creative talent,
    including actors, writers and producers. The segment incurs
    additional significant costs, such as



    
    47



Table of Contents




    newsgathering and marketing costs. Unless they are offset by
    increased revenue, increases in the costs of creative talent or
    in production, newsgathering or marketing costs may lead to
    decreased profits at the Networks segments.


 


    The continued decline in the growth rate of
    U.S. basic cable and DTH satellite households, together
    with rising retail rates, distributors’ focus on selling
    alternative products and other factors, could adversely affect
    the future revenue growth of the Networks
    segment.  The U.S. video services
    business generally is a mature business, which may have a
    negative impact on the ability of the Networks segment to
    achieve incremental growth in its advertising and subscription
    revenues. In addition, programming distributors may increase
    their resistance to wholesale programming price increases, and
    programming distributors are increasingly focused on selling
    services other than video, such as high-speed data access and
    voice services. Also, consumers’ basic cable rates have
    continued to increase, which could cause consumers to cancel
    their cable or satellite service subscriptions. The inability of
    the Networks segment to implement measures to maintain future
    revenue growth may adversely affect its business.


 


    Changes in U.S. or foreign communications laws or
    other regulations may have an adverse effect on the business of
    the Networks segment.  The multichannel video
    programming and distribution industries in the United States, as
    well as broadcast networks, are regulated by U.S. federal
    laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal
    agencies, including the FCC. The U.S. Congress and the FCC
    currently are considering, and may in the future adopt, new
    laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of
    matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the
    operations of the Networks segment. For example, the FCC has
    been examining whether cable operators should offer “à
    la carte” programming to subscribers on a
    network-by-network
    basis or provide “family-friendly” tiers. A number of
    cable operators, including TWC, have voluntarily agreed to offer
    family tiers in light of this interest. The unbundling or
    tiering of program services may reduce distribution of certain
    cable networks, thereby creating the risk of reduced viewership
    and increased marketing expenses, and may affect the
    segment’s ability to compete for or attract the same level
    of advertising dollars. Any decline in subscribers could lead to
    a decrease in the segment’s advertising and subscription
    revenues.


 


    There also has been consideration of the extension of indecency
    rules applicable to
    over-the-air
    broadcasters to cable and satellite programming and stricter
    enforcement of existing laws and rules. If such an extension or
    attempt to increase enforcement occurred and were upheld, the
    content of the Networks segment could be subject to additional
    regulation, which could affect subscriber and viewership levels.
    Moreover, the determination of whether content is indecent is
    inherently subjective and, as such, it can be difficult to
    predict whether particular content would violate indecency
    standards. The difficulty in predicting whether individual
    programs, words or phrases may violate the FCC’s indecency
    rules adds uncertainty to the ability of the Networks segment to
    comply with the rules. Violation of the indecency rules could
    lead to sanctions that may adversely affect the businesses and
    results of operations of the Networks segment.


 



    RISKS
    RELATING TO TIME WARNER’S PUBLISHING BUSINESS


 


    The Publishing segment’s operating income could
    decrease as a result of rising paper costs and postal rates, and
    its business could be negatively impacted by a significant
    disruption in postal service.  The Publishing
    segment’s principal raw material is paper, and paper prices
    have fluctuated over the past several years. Accordingly,
    significant unanticipated increases in paper prices could
    adversely affect the segment’s operating income. Postage
    for magazine distribution and direct solicitation is another
    significant operating expense of the Publishing segment, which
    primarily uses the U.S. Postal Service to distribute its
    products. The U.S. Postal Service implemented a postal rate
    increase of 5.4% effective January 8, 2006 and has proposed
    an additional increase of approximately 10% effective
    May 6, 2007, which is currently being challenged before the
    Postal Rate Commission. If there are further or more frequent
    significant increases in paper costs or postal rates and the
    Publishing segment is not able to offset these increases, they
    could have a negative impact on the segment’s operating
    income. In addition, if factors such as increased fuel and wage
    costs lead to a significant reduction or disruption in the
    service provided by the U.S. Postal Service, this could
    adversely affect the Publishing segment’s business.


 


    The Publishing segment faces risks relating to various
    regulatory and legislative matters, including changes in Audit
    Bureau of Circulations rules and possible changes in regulation
    of direct marketing.  The Publishing
    segment’s magazine subscription and direct marketing
    activities are subject to regulation by the FTC and the states



    
    48



Table of Contents




    under general consumer protection statutes prohibiting unfair or
    deceptive acts or practices. Certain areas of marketing activity
    are also subject to specific federal statutes and rules, such as
    the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the Children’s
    Online Privacy Protection Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
    (relating to financial privacy), the FTC Mail or Telephone Order
    Merchandise Rule and the FTC Telemarketing Sales Rule. Other
    statutes and rules also regulate conduct in areas such as
    privacy, data security and telemarketing. New statutes and
    regulations are adopted frequently. In addition, the Publishing
    segment’s magazine subscription and direct marketing
    activities are subject to the rules of the Audit Bureau of
    Circulations. New rules, as well as new interpretations of
    existing rules, are periodically adopted by the Audit Bureau of
    Circulations and could lead to changes in the segment’s
    marketing methods that could have a negative effect on the
    segment’s ability to generate new magazine subscriptions,
    meet rate bases and support advertising sales.


 


    The Publishing segment faces significant competition for
    advertising and circulation.  The Publishing
    segment faces significant competition from several direct
    competitors and other media, including the Internet. The
    Publishing segment’s magazine operations compete for
    circulation and audience with numerous other magazine publishers
    and other media. The Publishing segment’s magazine
    operations also compete with other magazine publishers and other
    media for advertising directed at the general public and at more
    focused demographic groups. Time Inc.’s direct marketing
    operations compete with other direct marketers through all media
    for the consumer’s attention.


 


    Competition for advertising revenue is primarily based on
    advertising rates, the nature and amount of readership, reader
    response to advertisers’ products and services and the
    effectiveness of sales teams. Other competitive factors in
    magazine publishing include product positioning, editorial
    quality, circulation, price and customer service, which impact
    readership audience, circulation revenue and, ultimately,
    advertising revenue. The magazine publishing business presents
    few barriers to entry and many new magazines are launched
    annually across multiple sectors. In recent years competitors
    launched
    and/or
    repositioned many magazines, primarily in the celebrity and
    women’s service sectors, that compete directly with
    People, In Style, Real Simple and other Publishing
    segment magazines, particularly at newsstand checkouts in
    mass-market retailers. The Company anticipates that it will face
    continuing competition from these new competitors, and it is
    possible that additional competitors may enter this field and
    further intensify competition, which could have an adverse
    impact on the segment’s revenue.


 


    The Publishing segment has in recent years made various changes
    in its circulation practices and consequently faces new
    challenges in identifying new subscribers and increasing
    circulation, which could have an adverse impact not only on its
    circulation revenue but also on its advertising revenue.


 


    The Publishing segment could face increased costs and
    business disruption resulting from instability in the newsstand
    distribution channel.  The Publishing segment
    operates a national distribution business that relies on
    wholesalers to distribute magazines published by the Publishing
    segment and other publishers to newsstands and other retail
    outlets. Due to industry consolidation, four wholesalers
    represent more than 80% of the wholesale magazine distribution
    business. There is a possibility of further consolidation among
    these wholesalers
    and/or
    insolvency of one or more of these wholesalers. Should there be
    a disruption in this wholesale channel it could adversely affect
    the Publishing segment’s operating income and cash flow,
    including temporarily impeding the Publishing segment’s
    ability to distribute magazines to the retail marketplace.


 


    Although the shift in consumer habits
    and/or
    advertising expenditures from traditional to online media poses
    risks to several of the Company’s businesses, such risks
    are particularly significant for the Company’s Publishing
    segment because a substantial portion of the segment’s
    revenue is derived from the sale of
    advertising.  See “Risks Relating to Time
    Warner Generally — The introduction and increased
    popularity of alternative technologies for the distribution of
    news, entertainment and other information and the resulting
    shift in consumer habits
    and/or
    advertising expenditures from traditional to online media could
    adversely affect the revenues of the Company’s Publishing,
    Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments.”







 




    
    



    
    Item 1B