ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS.
        The following risk factors
should be read carefully when evaluating our business and the forward-looking
statements
contained in this report and other statements we or our representatives
make from time to time. Any of the following risks could materially adversely
affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and
the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are
made in this report.
Risks Related to Our Business
Continued periods of historically high fuel costs or significant
disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a material adverse
impact on our operating results.
        Our operating results have
been and continue to be significantly impacted by changes in the availability
or price of aircraft fuel. Previous record-high fuel prices increased substantially
in 2005 as compared with 2004. We at times have not been able to increase
our fares when fuel prices have risen due to the highly competitive nature
of the airline industry, and we may not be able to do so in the future.
Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft
fuel, it is impossible to predict the future availability or price of aircraft
fuel. In addition, from time to time we enter into hedging arrangements
to protect against rising fuel costs. Our ability to hedge in the future,
however, may be limited due to market conditions and other factors.
Additional terrorist attacks or the fear of such attacks, even
if not made directly on the airline industry, could negatively affect us
and the airline industry.
        The terrorist attacks of
September 11, 2001 involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely
affected our financial condition and results of operations, as well as
prospects for the airline industry generally. Among the effects we experienced
from the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks were substantial flight disruption
costs caused by the FAA-imposed temporary grounding of the U.S. airline
industry's fleet, significantly increased security costs and associated
passenger inconvenience, increased insurance costs, substantially higher
ticket refunds and significantly decreased traffic and passenger revenue
per RPM ("yield").
        Additional terrorist attacks,
even if not made directly on the airline industry, or the fear of or the
precautions taken in anticipation of such attacks (including elevated national
threat warnings or selective cancellation or redirection of flights) could
materially and adversely affect us and the airline industry. The war in
Iraq and additional international hostilities could also potentially have
a material adverse impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results
of operations. Our financial resources might not be sufficient to absorb
the adverse effects of any further terrorist attacks or an increase in
post-war unrest in Iraq or other international hostilities involving the
United States.
The airline industry is highly competitive and susceptible to
price discounting.
        The U.S. airline industry
is characterized by substantial price competition, especially in domestic
markets. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources
or lower-cost structures than we do, or both. In recent years, the market
share held by LCCs has increased significantly. For the last several years,
large network carriers like United have generally had a lack of pricing
power in domestic markets.
        In addition, Northwest, Delta
and several small U.S. competitors have recently filed to reorganize under
bankruptcy protection. Other carriers could file for bankruptcy or threaten
to do so to reduce their costs. Carriers operating under bankruptcy protection
can operate in a manner that could be adverse to us and could emerge from
bankruptcy as more vigorous competitors.
Additional security requirements may increase our costs and decrease
our traffic.
        Since September 11, 2001,
the DHS and the TSA have implemented numerous security measures that affect
airline operations and costs, and are likely to implement additional measures
in the future. In addition, foreign governments have also begun to institute
additional security measures at foreign airports we serve. A substantial
portion of the costs of these security measures is borne by the airlines
and their passengers, increasing our costs and/or reducing our revenue.
        Security measures imposed
by the U.S. and foreign governments after September 11, 2001 have increased
our costs and may adversely affect us and our financial results, and additional
measures taken in the future may result in similar adverse effects.
Extensive government regulation could increase our operating costs
and restrict our ability to conduct our business.
        Airlines are subject to extensive
regulatory and legal compliance requirements that result in significant
costs. In addition to the enactment of the Aviation Security Act, laws,
regulations, taxes and airport rates and charges have been proposed from
time to time that could significantly increase the cost of airline operations
or reduce airline revenue. The FAA from time to time also issues directives
and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft
that require significant expenditures by the Company. We expect to continue
incurring expenses to comply with the regulations of the FAA and other
agencies. Additionally, we operate under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued by the DOT. If the DOT altered, amended, modified,
suspended or revoked our certificate, it could have a material adverse
effect on our business.
        Many aspects of our operations
are also subject to increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws
protecting the environment. Future regulatory developments in the U.S.
and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs
in the airline industry. For example, potential future actions that may
be taken by the U.S. government, foreign governments, or the International
Civil Aviation Organization to limit the emission of greenhouse gases by
the aviation sector are unknown at this time, but the impact to us and
our industry is likely to be adverse and could be significant.
        The ability of U.S. carriers
to operate international routes is subject to change because the applicable
arrangements between the United States and foreign governments may be amended
from time to time, or because appropriate slots or facilities may not be
made available. We cannot provide any assurance that current laws and regulations,
or laws or regulations enacted in the future, will not adversely affect
us.
Our results of operations fluctuate due to seasonality and other
factors associated with the airline industry. Our future financial condition
and results of operations will be further affected by the adoption of fresh
start accounting; and by the future resolution of bankruptcy-related contingencies.
        Due to greater demand for
air travel during the summer months, revenue in the airline industry in
the second and third quarters of the year is generally stronger than revenue
in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Our results of operations
generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous
other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including among others
excise and similar taxes, extreme or severe weather, air traffic control
delays and general economic conditions. As a result, our quarterly operating
results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire
year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of
future operating results.
        As a result of our bankruptcy
reorganization, we are subject to the adoption of fresh start accounting
as prescribed by generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). As
required by fresh start accounting, our assets and liabilities will be
adjusted to fair value, and certain assets and liabilities not previously
recognized in the Company's financial statements will be recognized under
fresh start accounting. Because we completed our reorganization and adopted
fresh start accounting on February 1, 2006, our reported assets and liabilities
at December 31, 2005 do not yet give effect to the adjustments that will
result from the adoption of fresh start accounting and, as a result, will
change materially. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of
operations from and after the Effective Date will not be comparable to
the financial condition and results of operations reflected in our historical
consolidated financial statements. For further information about fresh
start accounting, see Note 20, "Pro Forma Fresh Start Balance Sheet - (Unaudited)"
in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Additionally, despite our exit from bankruptcy on February 1, 2006,
several significant matters remain to be resolved in connection with our
reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Unfavorable
resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our
business. For additional detail regarding these matters, see Note 1, "Voluntary
Reorganization Under Chapter 11- Bankruptcy Considerations" in the Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.
Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions
may adversely affect our operations.
        Approximately 80% of the
employees of UAL are represented for collective bargaining purposes by
U.S. labor unions. These employees are organized into seven labor groups
represented by seven different unions.
        Relations between air carriers
and labor unions in the United States are governed by the RLA. Under the
RLA, a carrier must maintain the existing terms and conditions of employment
following the amendable date through a multi-stage and usually lengthy
series of bargaining processes overseen by the National Mediation Board.
This process continues until either the parties have reached agreement
on a new CBA, or the parties are released to "self-help" by the National
Mediation Board. Although in most circumstances the RLA prohibits strikes,
shortly after release by the National Mediation Board carriers and unions
are free to engage in self-help measures such as strikes and lock-outs.
None of our U.S. labor agreements become amendable until January 1, 2010. 
There is also a risk that disgruntled employees, either with or without
union involvement, could engage in illegal slow-downs, work stoppages,
partial work stoppages, sick-outs or other actions short of a full strike
that could individually or collectively harm the operation of the airline
and impair its financial performance.
Increases in insurance costs or reductions in insurance coverage
may adversely impact our operations and financial results.
        The terrorist attacks of
September 11, 2001 led to a significant increase in insurance premiums
and a decrease in the insurance coverage available to commercial airlines.
Accordingly, our insurance costs increased significantly and our ability
to continue to obtain certain types of insurance remains uncertain. We
have obtained third-party war risk (terrorism) insurance through a special
program administered by the FAA, resulting in lower premiums than if we
had obtained this insurance in the commercial insurance market. Should
the government discontinue this coverage, obtaining comparable coverage
from commercial underwriters could result in substantially higher premiums
and more restrictive terms, if it is available at all. If we are unable
to obtain adequate war risk insurance, our business could be materially
and adversely affected.
        If any of our aircraft were
to be involved in an accident, we could be exposed to significant tort
liability. The insurance we carry to cover damages arising from any future
accidents may be inadequate. In the event that our insurance is not adequate,
we may be forced to bear substantial losses from an accident. In addition,
any accident involving an aircraft that we operate could create a public
perception that our aircraft are not safe or reliable, which could harm
our reputation, result in decreased customer traffic and adversely impact
our financial condition and results of operations.
We rely heavily on automated systems to operate our business and
any significant failure of these systems could harm our business.
        We depend on automated systems
to operate our business, including our computerized airline reservation
systems, our flight operations systems, our telecommunication systems and
our commercial websites, including united.com. Our website and reservation
systems must be able to accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver
important flight information, as well as process critical financial transactions.
Substantial or repeated website, reservations systems or telecommunication
systems failures could reduce the attractiveness of our services versus
our competitors, and materially impair our ability to market our services
and operate our flights.
Our business relies extensively on third-party providers. Failure
of these parties to perform as expected, or unexpected interruptions in
our relationships with these providers or their provision of services to
us, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results
of operations.
        We have engaged third-party
service providers to perform a large number of functions that are integral
to our business, such as operation of United Express flights, operation
of customer service call centers, provision of information technology infrastructure
and services, provision of maintenance and repairs, provision of various
utilities, performance of aircraft fueling operations, and many other vital
functions and services. We do not directly control these third-party providers,
although we do enter into agreements with many of them which define expected
service performance. Any of these third-party providers, however, may materially
fail to meet their service performance commitments to the Company. The
failure of these providers to adequately perform their service obligations,
or other unexpected interruptions of services, may reduce our revenues
and increase our expenses, or prevent us from operating our flights and
providing other services to our customers. In addition, our business and
financial performance could be materially harmed if our customers believe
that our services are unreliable or unsatisfactory.
Our high level of fixed obligations could limit our ability to
fund general corporate requirements and obtain additional financing, could
limit our flexibility in responding to competitive developments and could
increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions.
        We have a significant amount
of financial leverage from fixed obligations, including the Credit Facility,
aircraft lease and debt financings, leases of airport property and other
facilities, and other material cash obligations. In addition, the Company
has pledged substantially all of its available assets as collateral to
secure its various fixed obligations.
        Our high level of fixed obligations
and lack of significant unencumbered assets or a downgrade in our existing
credit rating could impair our ability to obtain additional financing,
if needed, and reduce our flexibility in the conduct of our business. Certain
of our existing indebtedness also requires the Company to meet covenants
and financial tests to maintain ongoing access to those borrowings. See
Note 9, "Long-term Debt" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
for further details. A failure to pay our fixed costs, or other breach
of our contractual obligations could result in a variety of adverse consequences,
including the acceleration of our indebtedness, the withholding of credit
card sale proceeds by our credit card service providers, and the exercise
of other remedies by our creditors and lessors which could result in material
adverse effects on our operations and financial condition. In such a situation,
it is unlikely that we would be able to fulfill our obligations to repay
the accelerated indebtedness, make required lease payments, or otherwise
cover our fixed costs.
Our net operating loss carry forwards may be limited.
        At December 31, 2005, prior
to our emergence from bankruptcy, we had estimated net operating loss carry
forwards ("NOLs") to be $7.0 billion for federal and state income tax purposes
that will expire over a five to twenty year period. The Company expects
that the issuance of its common stock to creditors upon emergence from
bankruptcy may have the effect of increasing these NOLs in 2006. If we
were to have a change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of
the Internal Revenue Code, under current conditions, our annual federal
NOL utilization could be limited to an amount equal to our market capitalization
at the time of the ownership change multiplied by the federal long-term
tax exempt rate.
        To avoid a potential adverse
effect on the Company's ability to utilize its NOLs for federal income
tax purposes after the Effective Date, the Company's certificate of incorporation
contains a "5% Ownership Limitation," applicable to all stockholders except
the PBGC. The 5% Ownership Limitation remains effective until February
1, 2011. While the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent
a change of ownership from occurring within the meaning of Section 382
of the Internal Revenue Code (which ownership change would materially adversely
affect the Company's ability to utilize its NOLs or other tax attributes),
no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur,
in which case the availability of the Company's substantial NOLs and other
federal income tax attributes would be significantly limited or possibly
eliminated.
The loss of skilled employees upon whom we depend to operate our
business or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel could
adversely affect our results of operations.
        We believe that our future
success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain
highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. We may not
be successful in retaining key personnel or in attracting and retaining
other highly qualified personnel. Any inability to retain or attract significant
numbers of qualified management and other personnel could adversely affect
our business.
We could be adversely affected by an outbreak of a disease that
affects travel behavior.
        An outbreak of a disease
that affects travel behavior, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
("SARS") or avian flu, could have a material adverse impact on our business,
financial condition and results of operations.
Risks Related to Our Common Stock
Our common stock has a very limited trading history and its market
price may be volatile.
        Because our common stock
began trading after the Effective Date on the NASDAQ National Market on
February 2, 2006, there is very little trading history. The market price
of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors,
many of which are beyond our control.
        Certain provisions of the
amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated
bylaws of UAL may make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition
of our board of directors and may discourage takeover attempts that some
of our stockholders may consider beneficial.
        Certain provisions of the
amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated
bylaws of UAL may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in
control if our board of directors determines that such changes in control
are not in the best interests of UAL and its stockholders.
        These provisions are not
intended to prevent a takeover, but are intended to protect and maximize
the value of our stockholders' interests. While these provisions have the
effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company
to negotiate with our board of directors, they could enable our board of
directors to prevent a transaction that some, or a majority, of our stockholders
might believe to be in their best interests and, in that case, may prevent
or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors.
The issuance of additional shares of our common stock, including
upon conversion of our convertible preferred stock and our convertible
notes, could cause dilution to the interests of our existing stockholders.
        In connection with our emergence
from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, we issued 5,000,000 shares of 2%
convertible preferred stock. This preferred stock may be converted into
shares of our common stock upon the earlier of February 1, 2008, or upon
a fundamental change or change in control of the Company. Further, the
preferred stock is mandatorily convertible 15 years from the issuance date.
We also issued approximately $150 million in convertible 5% notes shortly
after the Effective Date, and we are required to issue approximately $726
million in additional convertible notes within the first six months after
the Effective Date. Holders of these securities may convert them into shares
of our common stock according to their terms. If the holders of the convertible
preferred stock or the holders of the convertible notes decided to exercise
their rights to convert their securities into common stock, it could cause
substantial dilution to existing stockholders. For further information,
see Note 1 "Voluntary Reorganization Under Chapter 11 - Bankruptcy Considerations"
in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
        Our certificate of incorporation
authorizes us up to 1 billion shares of common stock. In certain circumstances,
we can issue shares of common stock without stockholder approval. In addition,
our board of directors is authorized to issue additional series of up to
250 million shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of
our stockholders. Our board of directors also has the power, without stockholder
approval, to set the terms of any such series of shares of preferred stock
that may be issued, including voting rights, conversion rights, dividend
rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or
if we liquidate, dissolve or wind up our business and other terms. If we
issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common
stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation,
dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights
that dilute the voting power of our common stock, the rights of holders
of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely
affected. We are also authorized to issue, without stockholder approval,
other securities convertible into either preferred stock and, in certain
circumstances, common stock. In the future we may decide to raise capital
through offerings of our common stock, securities convertible into our
common stock, or rights to acquire these securities or our common stock.
The issuance of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible
into common stock could result in dilution of existing stockholders' equity
interests in us. Issuances of substantial amounts of our common stock,
or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect
prevailing market prices for our common stock and we cannot predict the
effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock.
ITEM 1B