Item 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    There are many factors that affect our business and our results
    of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The
    following is a description of important factors that may cause
    our actual results of operations in future periods to differ
    materially from those currently expected or discussed in
    forward-looking statements set forth in this report relating to
    our financial results, operations and business prospects. Except
    as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any
    such forward-looking statements to reflect events or
    circumstances after the date on which it is made.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Real Estate Investments and Our
    Operations


 


    Unfavorable Apartment Market and Economic Conditions Could
    Adversely Affect Occupancy Levels, Rental Revenues and the Value
    of Our Real Estate Assets.  Unfavorable market
    conditions in the areas in which we operate and unfavorable
    economic conditions generally may significantly affect our
    occupancy levels, our rental rates and collections, the value of
    the properties and our ability to strategically acquire or
    dispose of apartment communities on economically favorable
    terms. Some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments
    and real estate taxes, generally do not decline when related
    rents decline. We would expect that declines in our occupancy
    levels, rental revenues
    and/or the
    values of our apartment communities would cause us to have less
    cash available to pay our indebtedness and to distribute to our
    stockholders, which could adversely affect our financial
    condition and the market value of our securities. Factors that
    may affect our occupancy levels, our rental revenues,
    and/or the
    value of our properties include the following, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    downturns in the national, regional and local economic
    conditions, particularly increases in unemployment;




 



     
        • 

    
    declines in mortgage interest rates, making alternative housing
    more affordable;




 



     
        • 

    
    government or builder incentives which enable first time
    homebuyers to put little or no money down, making alternative
    housing options more attractive;




 



     
        • 

    
    local real estate market conditions, including oversupply of, or
    reduced demand for, apartment homes;




 



     
        • 

    
    declines in the financial condition of our tenants, which may
    make it more difficult for us to collect rents from some tenants;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in market rental rates;







    
    12



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing and costs associated with property improvements,
    repairs or renovations;




 



     
        • 

    
    declines in household formation; and




 



     
        • 

    
    rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating
    rental housing, which could prevent us from raising rents to
    offset increases in operating costs.





 


    We Are Subject to Certain Risks Associated with Selling
    Apartment Communities, Which Could Limit Our Operational and
    Financial Flexibility.  We have periodically
    disposed of apartment communities that no longer meet our
    strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it
    difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own,
    and purchasers may not be willing to pay prices acceptable to
    us. These conditions may limit our ability to dispose of
    properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet
    our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a materially
    adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value
    of our securities. We are also subject to the following risks in
    connection with sales of our apartment communities:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property
    sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to
    qualify as like-kind exchanges under Section 1031 of the
    Code, so that any related capital gain can be deferred for
    federal income tax purposes. As a result, we may not have
    immediate access to all of the cash flow generated from our
    property sales; and




 



     
        • 

    
    federal tax laws limit our ability to profit on the sale of
    communities that we have owned for less than two years, and this
    limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market
    conditions are favorable.





 


    Competition Could Limit Our Ability to Lease Apartment Homes
    or Increase or Maintain Rents.  Our apartment
    communities compete with numerous housing alternatives in
    attracting residents, including other apartment communities,
    condominiums and single-family rental homes, as well as owner
    occupied single- and multi-family homes. Competitive housing in
    a particular area could adversely affect our ability to lease
    apartment homes and increase or maintain rents.


 


    We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits of Past or Future
    Acquisitions, and the Failure to Integrate Acquired Communities
    and New Personnel Successfully Could Create
    Inefficiencies.  We have selectively acquired in
    the past, and if presented with attractive opportunities we
    intend to selectively acquire in the future, apartment
    communities that meet our investment criteria. Our acquisition
    activities and their success are subject to the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on
    favorable terms or at all;




 



     
        • 

    
    even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for an apartment
    community, we may be unable to complete the acquisition after
    incurring certain acquisition-related costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    an acquired apartment community may fail to perform as we
    expected in analyzing our investment, or a significant exposure
    related to the acquired property may go undetected during our
    due diligence procedures;




 



     
        • 

    
    when we acquire an apartment community, we may invest additional
    amounts in it with the intention of increasing profitability,
    and these additional investments may not produce the anticipated
    improvements in profitability; and




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired
    apartment communities and new personnel into our existing
    operations, and the failure to successfully integrate such
    apartment communities or personnel will result in inefficiencies
    that could adversely affect our expected return on our
    investments and our overall profitability.





 


    We do not expect to acquire apartment communities at the rate we
    have in prior years, which may limit our growth and have a
    material adverse effect on our business and the market value of
    our securities. In the past, other real estate investors,
    including insurance companies, pension and investment funds,
    developer partnerships, investment companies and other public
    and private apartment REITs, have competed with us to





    
    13



Table of Contents





    acquire existing properties and to develop new properties, and
    such competition in the future may make it more difficult for us
    to pursue attractive investment opportunities on favorable
    terms, which could adversely affect growth.


 


    Development and Construction Risks Could Impact Our
    Profitability.  In the past we have selectively
    pursued the development and construction of apartment
    communities, and we intend to do so in the future as appropriate
    opportunities arise. Development activities have been, and in
    the future may be, conducted through wholly owned affiliated
    companies or through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties.
    Our development and construction activities are subject to the
    following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain construction financing for
    development activities under favorable terms, including but not
    limited to interest rates, maturity dates
    and/or loan
    to value ratios, or at all which could cause us to delay or even
    abandon potential developments;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining,
    necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other
    required governmental permits and authorizations, which could
    result in increased development costs, could delay initial
    occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community,
    and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with
    respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits
    or authorizations;




 



     
        • 

    
    yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in
    completing projects, costs that exceed budget
    and/or
    higher than expected concessions for lease up and lower rents
    than pro forma;




 



     
        • 

    
    if we are unable to find joint venture partners to help fund the
    development of a community or otherwise obtain acceptable
    financing for the developments, our development capacity may be
    limited;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may abandon development opportunities that we have already
    begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already
    incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to complete construction and
    lease-up of
    a community on schedule, or incur development or construction
    costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable
    to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such
    costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may
    fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and
    economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our
    profitability goals for that community; and




 



     
        • 

    
    when we sell to third parties communities or properties that we
    developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or
    construction defect claims that are uninsured or exceed the
    limits of our insurance.





 


    In some cases in the past, the costs of upgrading acquired
    communities exceeded our original estimates. We may experience
    similar cost increases in the future. Our inability to charge
    rents that will be sufficient to offset the effects of any
    increases in these costs may impair our profitability.


 


    Some Potential Losses May Not Be Adequately Covered by
    Insurance.  We have a comprehensive insurance
    program covering our property and operating activities. We
    believe the policy specifications and insured limits of these
    policies are adequate and appropriate. There are, however,
    certain types of extraordinary losses which may not be
    adequately covered under our insurance program. In addition, we
    will sustain losses due to insurance deductibles, self-insured
    retention, uninsured claims or casualties, or losses in excess
    of applicable coverage.


 


    If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits
    occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have
    invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future
    revenue from the property. In such an event, we might
    nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other
    financial obligations related to the property. Material losses
    in excess of insurance proceeds may occur in the future. If one
    or more of our significant properties were to experience a
    catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations,
    delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild
    the property. Such events could adversely affect our cash flow
    and ability to make distributions to our stockholders.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    Failure to Succeed in New Markets May Limit Our
    Growth.  We have acquired in the past, and we may
    acquire in the future if appropriate opportunities arise,
    apartment communities that are outside of our existing markets.
    Entering into new markets may expose us to a variety of risks,
    and we may not be able to operate successfully in new markets.
    These risks include, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    inability to accurately evaluate local apartment market
    conditions and local economies;




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to hire and retain key personnel;




 



     
        • 

    
    lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting
    procedures; and




 



     
        • 

    
    inability to achieve budgeted financial results.





 


    Risk of Inflation/Deflation.  Substantial
    inflationary or deflationary pressures could have a negative
    effect on rental rates and property operating expenses. Although
    inflation has not materially impacted our operations in the
    recent past, increased inflation could have a more pronounced
    negative impact on our debt interest and general and
    administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate
    higher than our rental rates.


 


    Potential Liability for Environmental Contamination Could
    Result in Substantial Costs.  Under various
    federal, state and local environmental laws, as a current or
    former owner or operator of real estate, we could be required to
    investigate and remediate the effects of contamination of
    currently or formerly owned real estate by hazardous or toxic
    substances, often regardless of our knowledge of or
    responsibility for the contamination and solely by virtue of our
    current or former ownership or operation of the real estate. In
    addition, we could be held liable to a governmental authority or
    to third parties for property damage and for investigation and
    clean-up
    costs incurred in connection with the contamination. These costs
    could be substantial, and in many cases environmental laws
    create liens in favor of governmental authorities to secure
    their payment. The presence of such substances or a failure to
    properly remediate any resulting contamination could materially
    and adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent
    an affected property.


 


    Property Ownership Through Joint Ventures May Limit Our
    Ability to Act Exclusively in Our Interest.  We
    have in the past and may in the future develop and acquire
    properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when
    we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. If
    we use such a structure, we could become engaged in a dispute
    with one or more of our joint venture partners that might affect
    our ability to operate a jointly-owned property. Moreover, joint
    venture partners may have business, economic or other objectives
    that are inconsistent with our objectives, including objectives
    that relate to the appropriate timing and terms of any sale or
    refinancing of a property. In some instances, joint venture
    partners may have competing interests in our markets that could
    create conflicts of interest.


 


    Compliance or Failure to Comply with the Americans with
    Disabilities Act of 1990 or Other Safety Regulations and
    Requirements Could Result in Substantial
    Costs.  The Americans with Disabilities Act
    generally requires that public buildings, including our
    properties, be made accessible to disabled persons.
    Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the
    federal government or the award of damages to private litigants.
    From time to time claims may be asserted against us with respect
    to some of our properties under this Act. If, under the
    Americans with Disabilities Act, we are required to make
    substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or more
    of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it
    could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    Our properties are subject to various federal, state and local
    regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life
    safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these
    requirements, we could incur fines or private damage awards. We
    do not know whether existing requirements will change or whether
    compliance with future requirements will require significant
    unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and
    results of operations.


 


    Real Estate Tax and Other Laws.  Generally we
    do not directly pass through costs resulting from compliance
    with or changes in real estate tax laws to residential property
    tenants. We also do not generally pass through increases in
    income, service or other taxes, to tenants under leases. These
    costs may adversely affect net operating income and the ability
    to make distributions to stockholders. Similarly, compliance
    with or changes in (i) laws increasing the potential
    liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or
    the





    
    15



Table of Contents





    restrictions on discharges or other conditions or (ii) rent
    control or rent stabilization laws or other laws regulating
    housing, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act and the
    Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, may result in significant
    unanticipated expenditures, which would adversely affect funds
    from operations and the ability to make distributions to
    stockholders.


 


    Risk of Damage from Catastrophic Weather
    Events.  Certain of our communities are located in
    the general vicinity of active earthquake faults, mudslides and
    fires, and others where there are hurricanes, tornadoes or risks
    of other inclement weather. The adverse weather events could
    cause damage or losses that may be greater than insured levels.
    In the event of a loss in excess of insured limits, we could
    lose our capital invested in the affected community, as well as
    anticipated future revenue from that community. We would also
    continue to be obligated to repay any mortgage indebtedness or
    other obligations related to the community. Any such loss could
    materially and adversely affect our business and our financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    Actual or Threatened Terrorist Attacks May Have an Adverse
    Effect on Our Business and Operating Results and Could Decrease
    the Value of Our Assets.  Actual or threatened
    terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a
    material adverse effect on our business and operating results.
    Attacks that directly impact one or more of our apartment
    communities could significantly affect our ability to operate
    those communities and thereby impair our ability to achieve our
    expected results. Further, our insurance coverage may not cover
    all losses caused by a terrorist attack. In addition, the
    adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future
    attacks could have on the U.S. economy could similarly have
    a material adverse effect on our business and results of
    operations.


 


    Any Weaknesses Identified in Our Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Stock
    Price.  Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal
    control over financial reporting. If we identify one or more
    material weaknesses in our internal control over financial
    reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and
    completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could have
    an adverse effect on our stock price.


 


    Our Success Depends on Our Senior
    Management.  Our success depends upon the
    retention of our senior management, whose continued service in
    not guaranteed. We may not be able to find qualified
    replacements for the individuals who make up our senior
    management if their services should no longer be available to
    us. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior
    management team could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Indebtedness and Financing


 


    Insufficient Cash Flow Could Affect Our Debt Financing and
    Create Refinancing Risk.  We are subject to the
    risks normally associated with debt financing, including the
    risk that our operating income and cash flow will be
    insufficient to make required payments of principal and
    interest, or could restrict our borrowing capacity under our
    line of credit due to debt covenant restraints. Sufficient cash
    flow may not be available to make all required principal
    payments and still satisfy our distribution requirements to
    maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
    and the full limits of our line of credit may not be available
    to us if our operating performance falls outside the constraints
    of our debt covenants. Additionally, we are likely to need to
    refinance substantially all of our outstanding debt as it
    matures. We may not be able to refinance existing debt, or the
    terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of
    the existing debt, which could create pressures to sell assets
    or to issue additional equity when we would otherwise not choose
    to do so. In addition, our failure to comply with our debt
    covenants could result in a requirement to repay our
    indebtedness prior to its maturity, which could have an adverse
    effect on our cash flow and increase our financing costs.


 


    Failure to Generate Sufficient Revenue Could Impair Debt
    Service Payments and Distributions to
    Stockholders.  If our apartment communities do not
    generate sufficient net rental income to meet rental expenses,
    our ability to make required payments of interest and principal
    on our debt securities and to pay





    
    16



Table of Contents





    distributions to our stockholders will be adversely affected.
    The following factors, among others, may affect the net rental
    income generated by our apartment communities:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the national and local economies;




 



     
        • 

    
    local real estate market conditions, such as an oversupply of
    apartment homes;




 



     
        • 

    
    tenants’ perceptions of the safety, convenience, and
    attractiveness of our communities and the neighborhoods where
    they are located;




 



     
        • 

    
    our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance and
    insurance;




 



     
        • 

    
    rental expenses, including real estate taxes and utilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in interest rates and the availability of
    financing; and




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in tax and housing laws, including the enactment of rent
    control laws or other laws regulating multi-family housing.





 


    Expenses associated with our investment in an apartment
    community, such as debt service, real estate taxes, insurance
    and maintenance costs, are generally not reduced when
    circumstances cause a reduction in rental income from that
    community. If a community is mortgaged to secure payment of debt
    and we are unable to make the mortgage payments, we could
    sustain a loss as a result of foreclosure on the community or
    the exercise of other remedies by the mortgage holder.


 


    Debt Level May Be Increased.  Our current
    debt policy does not contain any limitations on the level of
    debt that we may incur, although our ability to incur debt is
    limited by covenants in our bank and other credit agreements. We
    manage our debt to be in compliance with these debt covenants,
    but subject to compliance with these covenants, we may increase
    the amount of our debt at any time without a concurrent
    improvement in our ability to service the additional debt.


 


    Financing May Not Be Available and Could Be
    Dilutive.  Our ability to execute our business
    strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt
    financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms
    of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including
    common and preferred equity. We and other companies in the real
    estate industry have experienced limited availability of
    financing from time to time. If we issue additional equity
    securities to finance developments and acquisitions instead of
    incurring debt, the interests of our existing stockholders could
    be diluted.


 


    Financing Could be Impacted by Negative Capital Market
    Conditions.  Recently, domestic financial markets
    have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty. While this
    condition has occurred most visibly within the
    “subprime” mortgage lending sector of the credit
    market, liquidity has tightened in overall domestic financial
    markets, including the investment grade debt and equity capital
    markets. Consequently, there is greater risk that the financial
    institutions we do business with could experience disruptions
    that would negatively affect our ability to obtain financing.


 


    Disruptions in Financial Markets May Adversely Impact
    Availability and Cost of Credit, Impact Our Tenant Base, and
    Have other Adverse Effects on Us and the Market Price of Our
    Stock.  Our ability to make scheduled payments or
    to refinance debt obligations will depend on our operating and
    financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing
    economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors
    beyond our control. The United States stock and credit markets
    have recently experienced significant price volatility,
    dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market
    prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads
    on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These
    circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the
    financial markets, making terms for certain financings less
    attractive, and in some cases have resulted in the
    unavailability of financing. Continued uncertainty in the stock
    and credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access
    additional financing for acquisitions, development of our
    properties and other purposes at reasonable terms, which may
    negatively affect our business. Additionally, due to this
    uncertainty, we may be unable to refinance our existing
    indebtedness or the terms of any refinancing may not be as
    favorable as the terms of our existing indebtedness. If we are
    not successful in refinancing this debt when it becomes due, we
    may be forced to dispose of properties on disadvantageous terms,
    which might





    
    17



Table of Contents





    adversely affect our ability to service other debt and to meet
    our other obligations. A prolonged downturn in the financial
    markets may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially
    less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our
    business plan accordingly. These events also may make it more
    difficult or costly for us to raise capital through the issuance
    of our common or preferred stock. The disruptions in the
    financial markets have had and may continue to have a material
    adverse effect on the market value of our common shares and
    other adverse effects on us and our business.


 


    Prospective buyers of our properties may also experience
    difficulty in obtaining debt financing which might make it more
    difficult for us to sell properties at acceptable pricing
    levels. Current tightening of credit in financial markets and
    increasing unemployment may also adversely affect the ability of
    tenants to meet their lease obligations and for us to continue
    increasing rents on a prospective basis. Disruptions in the
    credit and financial markets may also have other adverse effects
    on us and the overall economy.


 


    The Soundness of Financial Institutions Could Adversely
    Affect Us.  We have relationships with many
    financial institutions, including lenders under our credit
    facilities, and, from time to time, we execute transactions with
    counterparties in the financial services industry. As a result,
    defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, financial
    institutions or the financial services industry generally, could
    result in losses or defaults by these institutions. In the event
    that the volatility of the financial markets adversely affects
    these financial institutions or counterparties, we or other
    parties to the transactions with us may be unable to complete
    transactions as intended, which could adversely affect our
    business and results of operations.


 


    Changing Interest Rates Could Increase Interest Costs and
    Adversely Affect Our Cash Flow and the Market Price of Our
    Securities.  We currently have, and expect to
    incur in the future, interest-bearing debt at rates that vary
    with market interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, we had
    approximately $709.2 million of variable rate indebtedness
    outstanding, which constitutes approximately 20.7% of our total
    outstanding indebtedness as of such date. An increase in
    interest rates would increase our interest expenses and increase
    the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness and of issuing
    new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates could adversely
    affect cash flow and our ability to service our debt and to make
    distributions to security holders. The effect of prolonged
    interest rate increases could negatively impact our ability to
    make acquisitions and develop properties. In addition, an
    increase in market interest rates may lead our security holders
    to demand a higher annual yield, which could adversely affect
    the market price of our common and preferred stock and debt
    securities.


 


    Interest Rate Hedging Contracts May Be Ineffective and May
    Result in Material Charges.  From time to time
    when we anticipate issuing debt securities, we may seek to limit
    our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates during the period
    prior to the pricing of the securities by entering into interest
    rate hedging contracts. We may do this to increase the
    predictability of our financing costs. Also, from time to time
    we may rely on interest rate hedging contracts to limit our
    exposure under variable rate debt to unfavorable changes in
    market interest rates. If the terms of new debt securities are
    not within the parameters of, or market interest rates fall
    below that which we incur under a particular interest rate
    hedging contract, the contract is ineffective. Furthermore, the
    settlement of interest rate hedging contracts has involved and
    may in the future involve material charges.


 



    Risks
    Related to Tax Laws


 


    We Would Incur Adverse Tax Consequences if We Fail to Qualify
    as a REIT.  We have elected to be taxed as a REIT
    under the Code. Our qualification as a REIT requires us to
    satisfy numerous requirements, some on an annual and quarterly
    basis, established under highly technical and complex Code
    provisions for which there are only limited judicial or
    administrative interpretations, and involves the determination
    of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
    our control. We intend that our current organization and method
    of operation enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT, but we
    may not so qualify or we may not be able to remain so qualified
    in the future. In addition, U.S. federal income tax laws
    governing REITs and other corporations and the administrative
    interpretations of those laws may be amended at any time,
    potentially with retroactive effect. Future legislation, new
    regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions
    could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT or
    adversely affect our stockholders.




    
    18



Table of Contents





    If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be
    subject to federal income tax (including any applicable
    alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular
    corporate rates, and would not be allowed to deduct dividends
    paid to our stockholders in computing our taxable income. Also,
    unless the Internal Revenue Service granted us relief under
    certain statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from
    treatment as a REIT for the two taxable years following the year
    in which we first failed to qualify. The additional tax
    liability from the failure to qualify as a REIT would reduce or
    eliminate the amount of cash available for investment or
    distribution to our stockholders. This would likely have a
    significant adverse effect on the value of our securities and
    our ability to raise additional capital. In addition, we would
    no longer be required to make distributions to our stockholders.
    Even if we continue to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be
    subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income
    and property.


 


    REITs May Pay a Portion of Dividends in Common
    Stock.  In December 2009, the Internal Revenue
    Service issued Revenue Procedure
    2010-12,
    which expanded previously issued temporary guidance relating to
    certain stock distributions made by publicly traded REITs to
    satisfy their tax-related distribution requirements. This
    expanded temporary guidance is intended to permit REITs to limit
    cash distributions in order to maintain liquidity during the
    current downturn in economic conditions. Under this expanded
    guidance, for stock dividends declared on or after
    January 1, 2008 and before December 31, 2012, with
    respect to a taxable year ending on or before December 31,
    2011, the Internal Revenue Service will treat a distribution of
    stock by a publicly traded REIT, pursuant to certain stockholder
    elections to receive either stock or cash, as a taxable
    distribution of property, provided that, among other conditions,
    (i) the total amount of cash available for distribution is
    not less than 10% of the aggregate declared distribution, and
    (ii) if too many stockholders elect to receive cash, each
    stockholder electing to receive cash will receive a pro rata
    amount of cash corresponding to its respective entitlement under
    the declaration, but in no event will any such electing
    stockholder receive less than 10% of the stockholder’s
    entire entitlement in money. The amount of such stock
    distribution will generally be treated as equal to the amount of
    cash that could have been received instead. If we pay a portion
    of our dividends in shares of our common stock pursuant to this
    temporary guidance, our stockholders may receive less cash than
    they received in distributions in prior years and the market
    value of our securities may decline.


 


    We May Conduct a Portion of Our Business Through Taxable REIT
    Subsidiaries, Which are Subject to Certain Tax
    Risks.  We have established several taxable REIT
    subsidiaries. Despite our qualification as a REIT, our taxable
    REIT subsidiaries must pay income tax on their taxable income.
    In addition, we must comply with various tests to continue to
    qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, and our
    income from and investments in our taxable REIT subsidiaries
    generally do not constitute permissible income and investments
    for these tests. While we will attempt to ensure that our
    dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will not adversely
    affect our REIT qualification, we cannot provide assurance that
    we will successfully achieve that result. Furthermore, we may be
    subject to a 100% penalty tax, we may jeopardize our ability to
    retain future gains on real property sales, or our taxable REIT
    subsidiaries may be denied deductions, to the extent our
    dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries are not deemed to be
    arm’s length in nature or are otherwise not respected.


 


    REIT Distribution Requirements Limit Our Available
    Cash.  As a REIT, we are subject to annual
    distribution requirements, which limit the amount of cash we
    retain for other business purposes, including amounts to fund
    our growth. We generally must distribute annually at least 90%
    of our net REIT taxable income, excluding any net capital gain,
    in order for our distributed earnings not to be subject to
    corporate income tax. We intend to make distributions to our
    stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Code.
    However, differences in timing between the recognition of
    taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us
    to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term
    basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Code.


 


    Certain Property Transfers May Generate Prohibited
    Transaction Income, Resulting in a Penalty Tax on Gain
    Attributable to the Transaction.  From time to
    time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our
    properties. Under the Code, any gain resulting from transfers of
    properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to
    customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as
    income from a prohibited transaction and subject to a 100%
    penalty tax. Since we acquire properties for investment
    purposes,





    
    19



Table of Contents





    we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of
    property are prohibited transactions. However, whether property
    is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that
    depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the
    particular transaction. The Internal Revenue Service may contend
    that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are
    prohibited transactions. If the Internal Revenue Service were to
    argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property
    constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required
    to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the
    prohibited transaction and we may jeopardize our ability to
    retain future gains on real property sales. In addition, income
    from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability
    to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a REIT for
    federal income tax purposes.


 


    We Could Face Possible State and Local Tax Audits and Adverse
    Changes in State and Local Tax Laws.  As discussed
    in the risk factors above, because we are organized and qualify
    as a REIT we are generally not subject to federal income taxes,
    but we are subject to certain state and local taxes. From time
    to time, changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are
    enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. A
    shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in which
    we own apartment communities may lead to an increase in the
    frequency and size of such changes. If such changes occur, we
    may be required to pay additional state and local taxes. These
    increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial
    condition and the amount of cash available for the payment of
    distributions to our stockholders. In the normal course of
    business, entities through which we own real estate may also
    become subject to tax audits. If such entities become subject to
    state or local tax audits, the ultimate result of such audits
    could have an adverse effect on our financial condition.


 



    Risks
    Related to Our Organization and Our Shares


 


    Changes in Market Conditions and Volatility of Stock Prices
    Could Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Common
    Stock.  The stock markets, including the New York
    Stock Exchange, on which we list our common shares, have
    experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a
    result, the market price of our common stock could be similarly
    volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a
    decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases
    unrelated to our operating performance or prospects.


 


    The market price per share of our common stock may decline or
    fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general market and economic conditions,




 



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating
    results or dividends or our payment of dividends in shares of
    our stock,




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates,




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or inability to access capital or extend or
    refinance existing debt,




 



     
        • 

    
    decreasing (or uncertainty in) real estate valuations,




 



     
        • 

    
    publication of research reports about us or the real estate
    industry,




 



     
        • 

    
    the general reputation of real estate investment trusts and the
    attractiveness of their equity securities in comparison to other
    equity securities (including securities issued by other real
    estate-based companies),




 



     
        • 

    
    general stock and bond market conditions, including changes in
    interest rates on fixed income securities, that may lead
    prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual
    yield from future dividends,




 



     
        • 

    
    a change in analyst ratings,




 



     
        • 

    
    adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the
    future,




 



     
        • 

    
    speculation in the press or investment community,







    
    20



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    terrorist activity which may adversely affect the markets in
    which our securities trade, possibly increasing market
    volatility and causing the further erosion of business and
    consumer confidence and spending,




 



     
        • 

    
    governmental regulatory action and changes in tax laws, and




 



     
        • 

    
    the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or the
    perception that such sales might occur, including under our
    at-the-market
    equity distribution program.





 


    Many of the factors listed above are beyond our control. These
    factors may cause the market price of shares of our common stock
    to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of
    operations, business or our prospects.


 


    We May Change the Dividend Policy for Our Common Stock in the
    Future.  The decision to declare and pay dividends
    on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount
    and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the
    sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our
    earnings, funds from operations, liquidity, financial condition,
    capital requirements, contractual prohibitions or other
    limitations under our indebtedness, the annual distribution
    requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code, state law
    and such other factors as our Board of Directors considers
    relevant. Any change in our dividend policy could have a
    material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock.


 


    Maryland Law May Limit the Ability of a Third Party to
    Acquire Control of Us, Which May Not be in Our
    Stockholders’ Best Interests.  Maryland
    business statutes may limit the ability of a third party to
    acquire control of us. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject
    to various Maryland laws which may have the effect of
    discouraging offers to acquire our Company and of increasing the
    difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our
    acquisition would be in our stockholders’ best interests.
    The Maryland General Corporation Law restricts mergers and other
    business combination transactions between us and any person who
    acquires beneficial ownership of shares of our stock
    representing 10% or more of the voting power without our board
    of directors’ prior approval. Any such business combination
    transaction could not be completed until five years after the
    person acquired such voting power, and generally only with the
    approval of stockholders representing 80% of all votes entitled
    to be cast and
    662/3%
    of the votes entitled to be cast, excluding the interested
    stockholder, or upon payment of a fair price. Maryland law also
    provides generally that a person who acquires shares of our
    equity stock that represents 10% (and certain higher levels) of
    the voting power in electing directors will have no voting
    rights unless approved by a vote of two-thirds of the shares
    eligible to vote.


 


    Limitations on Share Ownership and Limitations on the Ability
    of Our Stockholders to Effect a Change in Control of Our Company
    May Prevent Takeovers That are Beneficial to Our
    Stockholders.  One of the requirements for
    maintenance of our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal
    income tax purposes is that no more than 50% in value of our
    outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer
    individuals, including entities specified in the Code, during
    the last half of any taxable year. Our charter contains
    ownership and transfer restrictions relating to our stock
    primarily to assist us in complying with this and other REIT
    ownership requirements; however, the restrictions may have the
    effect of preventing a change of control, which does not
    threaten REIT status. These restrictions include a provision
    that generally limits ownership by any person of more than 9.9%
    of the value of our outstanding equity stock, unless our board
    of directors exempts the person from such ownership limitation,
    provided that any such exemption shall not allow the person to
    exceed 13% of the value of our outstanding equity stock. These
    provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or
    preventing someone from taking control of us, even though a
    change of control might involve a premium price for our
    stockholders or might otherwise be in our stockholders’
    best interests.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B