Item 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    There are many factors that affect our business and our results
    of operations, some of which are beyond our control. The
    following is a description of important factors that may cause
    our actual results of operations in future periods to differ
    materially from those currently expected or discussed in
    forward-looking statements set forth in this Report relating to
    our financial results, operations and business prospects. Except
    as required



    
    11



Table of Contents




    by law, we undertake no obligation to update any such
    forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances
    after the date on which it is made.


 


    Unfavorable Changes in Apartment Market and Economic
    Conditions Could Adversely Affect Occupancy Levels and Rental
    Rates.  Market and economic conditions in the
    metropolitan areas in which we operate may significantly affect
    our occupancy levels and rental rates and, therefore, our
    profitability. Factors that may adversely affect these
    conditions include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    a reduction in jobs and other local economic downturns,



 


     
        • 

    
    declines in mortgage interest rates, making alternative housing
    more affordable,



 


     
        • 

    
    government or builder incentives which enable first time
    homebuyers to put little or no money down, making alternative
    housing decisions easier to make,



 


     
        • 

    
    oversupply of, or reduced demand for, apartment homes,



 


     
        • 

    
    declines in household formation, and



 


     
        • 

    
    rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating
    rental housing, which could prevent us from raising rents to
    offset increases in operating costs.





 


    The strength of the United States economy has become
    increasingly susceptible to global events and threats of
    terrorism. At the same time, productivity enhancements and the
    increased exportation of labor have resulted in limited job
    growth despite an improving economy. Continued weakness in job
    creation, or any worsening of current economic conditions,
    generally and in our principal market areas, could have a
    material adverse effect on our occupancy levels, our rental
    rates and our ability to strategically acquire and dispose of
    apartment communities. This may impair our ability to satisfy
    our financial obligations and pay distributions to our
    stockholders.


 


    New Acquisitions, Developments and Condominium Projects May
    Not Achieve Anticipated Results.  We intend to
    continue to selectively acquire apartment communities that meet
    our investment criteria and to develop apartment communities for
    rental operations, to convert properties into condominiums and
    to develop condominium projects. Our acquisition, development
    and condominium activities and their success are subject to the
    following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an acquired apartment community may fail to perform as we
    expected in analyzing our investment, or a significant exposure
    related to the acquired property may go undetected during our
    due diligence procedures,



 


     
        • 

    
    when we acquire an apartment community, we often invest
    additional amounts in it with the intention of increasing
    profitability. These additional investments may not produce the
    anticipated improvements in profitability,



 


     
        • 

    
    new developments may not achieve pro forma rents or occupancy
    levels, or problems with construction or local building codes
    may delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a
    development community, and



 


     
        • 

    
    an over supply of condominiums in a given market may cause a
    decrease in the prices at which we expect to sell condominium
    properties.





 


    Possible Difficulty of Selling Apartment Communities Could
    Limit Operational and Financial Flexibility.  We
    periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer
    meet our strategic objectives. Market conditions could change
    and purchasers may not be willing to pay prices acceptable to
    us. A weak market may limit our ability to change our portfolio
    promptly in response to changing economic conditions.
    Furthermore, a significant portion of the proceeds from our
    overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order
    for some sales to qualify as like-kind exchanges under
    Section 1031 of the Code, so that any related capital gain
    can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we
    may not have immediate access to all of the cash flow generated
    from our property sales. In addition, federal tax laws limit our
    ability to profit on the sale



    
    12



Table of Contents




    of communities that we have owned for fewer than four years, and
    this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when
    market conditions are favorable.


 


    Increased Competition Could Limit Our Ability to Lease
    Apartment Homes or Increase or Maintain
    Rents.  Our apartment communities compete with
    numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including
    other apartment communities and single-family rental homes, as
    well as owner occupied single- and multi-family homes.
    Competitive housing in a particular area could adversely affect
    our ability to lease apartment homes and increase or maintain
    rents.


 


    Insufficient Cash Flow Could Affect Our Debt Financing and
    Create Refinancing Risk.  We are subject to the
    risks normally associated with debt financing, including the
    risk that our operating income and cash flow will be
    insufficient to make required payments of principal and
    interest, or could restrict our borrowing capacity under our
    line of credit due to debt covenant restraints. Sufficient cash
    flow may not be available to make all required principal
    payments and still satisfy our distribution requirements to
    maintain our status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes,
    and the full limits of our line of credit may not be available
    to us if our operating performance falls outside the constraints
    of our debt covenants. Additionally, we are likely to need to
    refinance substantially all of our outstanding debt as it
    matures. We may not be able to refinance existing debt, or the
    terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of
    the existing debt, which could create pressures to sell assets
    or to issue additional equity when we would otherwise not choose
    to do so.


 


    Failure to Generate Sufficient Revenue Could Impair Debt
    Service Payments and Distributions to
    Stockholders.  If our apartment communities do not
    generate sufficient net rental income to meet rental expenses,
    our ability to make required payments of interest and principal
    on our debt securities and to pay distributions to our
    stockholders will be adversely affected. The following factors,
    among others, may affect the net rental income generated by our
    apartment communities:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the national and local economies,



 


     
        • 

    
    local real estate market conditions, such as an oversupply of
    apartment homes,



 


     
        • 

    
    tenants’ perceptions of the safety, convenience, and
    attractiveness of our communities and the neighborhoods where
    they are located,



 


     
        • 

    
    our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance and
    insurance, and



 


     
        • 

    
    rental expenses, including real estate taxes and utilities.





 


    Expenses associated with our investment in a community, such as
    debt service, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance
    costs, are generally not reduced when circumstances cause a
    reduction in rental income from that community. If a community
    is mortgaged to secure payment of debt and we are unable to make
    the mortgage payments, we could sustain a loss as a result of
    foreclosure on the community or the exercise of other remedies
    by the mortgage holder.


 


    Debt Level May Be Increased.  Our current
    debt policy does not contain any limitations on the level of
    debt that we may incur, although our ability to incur debt is
    limited by covenants in our bank and other credit agreements. We
    manage our debt to be in compliance with these debt covenants,
    but subject to compliance with these covenants, we may increase
    the amount of our debt at any time without a concurrent
    improvement in our ability to service the additional debt.


 


    Financing May Not Be Available and Could Be
    Dilutive.  Our ability to execute our business
    strategy depends on our access to an appropriate blend of debt
    financing, including unsecured lines of credit and other forms
    of secured and unsecured debt, and equity financing, including
    common and preferred equity. Debt or equity financing may not be
    available in sufficient amounts, on favorable terms or at all.
    If we issue additional equity securities to finance developments
    and acquisitions instead of incurring debt, the interests of our
    existing stockholders could be diluted.


 


    Development and Construction Risks Could Impact Our
    Profitability.  We intend to continue to develop
    and construct apartment communities. Development activities may
    be conducted through wholly owned



    
    13



Table of Contents




    affiliated companies or through joint ventures with unaffiliated
    parties. Our development and construction activities may be
    exposed to the following risks:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining,
    necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other
    required governmental permits and authorizations, which could
    result in increased development costs and could require us to
    abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for
    which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations,



 


     
        • 

    
    if we are unable to find joint venture partners to help fund the
    development of a community or otherwise obtain acceptable
    financing for the developments, our development capacity may be
    limited,



 


     
        • 

    
    we may abandon development opportunities that we have already
    begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already
    incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities,



 


     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to complete construction and
    lease-up of
    a community on schedule, or incur development or construction
    costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable
    to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such
    costs,



 


     
        • 

    
    occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may
    fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and
    economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our
    profitability goals for that community, and



 


     
        • 

    
    when we sell homes or properties that we developed or renovated
    to third parties, we may be subject to warranty or construction
    defect claims that are uninsured or exceed the limits of our
    insurance.





 


    Construction costs have been increasing in our existing markets,
    and the costs of upgrading acquired communities have, in some
    cases, exceeded our original estimates. We may experience
    similar cost increases in the future. Our inability to charge
    rents that will be sufficient to offset the effects of any
    increases in these costs may impair our profitability.


 


    Some Potential Losses Are Not Covered by
    Insurance.  We maintain insurance policies
    covering our property and operating activities which are of the
    type and in amounts we believe are reasonable and appropriate to
    cover our business. There are, however, certain types of
    extraordinary losses for which we may not have insurance,
    including certain extraordinary losses resulting from
    environmental damage or successive natural disasters or other
    catastrophes. Accordingly, we may sustain uninsured losses due
    to insurance deductibles, self-insured retention, uninsured
    claims or casualties, or losses in excess of applicable coverage.


 


    We may not be able to renew insurance coverage in an adequate
    amount or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies
    may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses,
    such as losses due to terrorist acts and mold, or, if offered,
    these types of insurance may be prohibitively expensive. If an
    uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occurs, we
    could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a
    property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the
    property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain
    obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations
    related to the property. Material losses in excess of insurance
    proceeds may occur in the future. If one or more of our
    significant properties were to experience a catastrophic loss,
    it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and
    result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Such
    events could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make
    distributions to stockholders.


 


    Failure to Succeed in New Markets May Limit Our
    Growth.  We may make acquisitions outside of our
    existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. We may
    be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new
    markets, and we may not be able to operate successfully in new
    markets. These risks include, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    inability to accurately evaluate local apartment market
    conditions and local economies,



 


     
        • 

    
    inability to obtain land for development or to identify
    appropriate acquisition opportunities,



 


     
        • 

    
    inability to hire and retain key personnel, and



 


     
        • 

    
    lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting
    procedures.






    
    14



Table of Contents



 


    Changing Interest Rates Could Increase Interest Costs and
    Adversely Affect Our Cash Flow and the Market Price of Our
    Securities.  We currently have, and expect to
    incur in the future, interest-bearing debt at rates that vary
    with market interest rates. As of December 31, 2006, we had
    approximately $492.5 million of variable rate indebtedness
    outstanding, which constitutes approximately 15% of our total
    outstanding indebtedness as of such date. An increase in
    interest rates would increase our interest expenses to the
    extent our variable rate debt is not hedged effectively, and it
    would increase the costs of refinancing existing indebtedness
    and of issuing new debt. Accordingly, higher interest rates
    could adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service our
    debt and to make distributions to security holders. In addition,
    an increase in market interest rates may lead our security
    holders to demand a higher annual yield, which could adversely
    affect the market price of our common and preferred stock and
    debt securities.


 


    Risk of Inflation/Deflation.  Substantial
    inflationary or deflationary pressures could have a negative
    effect on rental rates and property operating expenses.


 


    Limited Investment Opportunities Could Adversely Affect Our
    Growth.  We expect that other real estate
    investors will compete with us to acquire existing properties
    and to develop new properties. These competitors include
    insurance companies, pension and investment funds, developer
    partnerships, investment companies and other apartment REITs.
    This competition could increase prices for properties of the
    type that we would likely pursue, and our competitors may have
    greater resources than we do. As a result, we may not be able to
    make attractive investments on favorable terms, which could
    adversely affect our growth.


 


    Failure to Integrate Acquired Communities and New Personnel
    Could Create Inefficiencies.  To grow
    successfully, we must be able to apply our experience in
    managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a
    larger number of properties. In addition, we must be able to
    integrate new management and operations personnel as our
    organization grows in size and complexity. Failures in either
    area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect
    our expected return on our investments and our overall
    profitability.


 


    Interest Rate Hedging Contracts May Be Ineffective and May
    Result in Material Charges.  From time to time
    when we anticipate issuing debt securities, we may seek to limit
    our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates during the period
    prior to the pricing of the securities by entering into interest
    rate hedging contracts. We may do this to increase the
    predictability of our financing costs. Also, from time to time
    we may rely on interest rate hedging contracts to limit our
    exposure under variable rate debt to unfavorable changes in
    market interest rates. If the terms of new debt securities are
    not within the parameters of, or market interest rates fall
    below that which we incur under a particular interest rate
    hedging contract, the contract is ineffective. Furthermore, the
    settlement of interest rate hedging contracts has involved and
    may in the future involve material charges.


 


    Potential Liability for Environmental Contamination Could
    Result in Substantial Costs.  Under various
    federal, state and local environmental laws, as a current or
    former owner or operator of real estate, we could be required to
    investigate and remediate the effects of contamination of
    currently or formerly owned real estate by hazardous or toxic
    substances, often regardless of our knowledge of or
    responsibility for the contamination and solely by virtue of our
    current or former ownership or operation of the real estate. In
    addition, we could be held liable to a governmental authority or
    to third parties for property damage and for investigation and
    clean-up
    costs incurred in connection with the contamination. These costs
    could be substantial, and in many cases environmental laws
    create liens in favor of governmental authorities to secure
    their payment. The presence of such substances or a failure to
    properly remediate any resulting contamination could materially
    and adversely affect our ability to borrow against, sell or rent
    an affected property.


 


    We Would Incur Adverse Tax Consequences if We Fail to Qualify
    as a REIT.   We have elected to be taxed as a REIT
    under the Code. Our qualification as a REIT requires us to
    satisfy numerous requirements, some on an annual and quarterly
    basis, established under highly technical and complex Code
    provisions for which there are only limited judicial or
    administrative interpretations, and involves the determination
    of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within
    our control. We intend that our current organization and method
    of operation enable us to continue to qualify as a REIT, but we
    may not so qualify or we may not be able to remain so qualified
    in the future. In addition, U.S. federal income tax laws
    governing REITs and other corporations and the administrative
    interpretations of those laws may be amended at any



    
    15



Table of Contents




    time, potentially with retroactive effect. Future legislation,
    new regulations, administrative interpretations or court
    decisions could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a
    REIT or adversely affect our stockholders.


 


    If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, and
    applicable relief provisions under the Code were not available,
    we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax (including
    any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at
    regular corporate rates, and would not be allowed to deduct
    dividends paid to our stockholders in computing our taxable
    income. Also, unless the Internal Revenue Service, or
    “IRS,” granted us relief under certain statutory
    provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT
    for the four taxable years following the year in which we first
    failed to qualify. The additional tax liability from the failure
    to qualify as a REIT would reduce or eliminate the amount of
    cash available for investment or distribution to our
    stockholders. This would likely have a significant adverse
    effect on the value of our securities and our ability to raise
    additional capital. In addition, we would no longer be required
    to make distributions to our stockholders. Even if we continue
    to qualify as a REIT, we will continue to be subject to certain
    federal, state and local taxes on our income and property.


 


    We May Conduct a Portion of Our Business Through Taxable REIT
    Subsidiaries, Which are Subject to Certain Tax
    Risks.  We have established taxable REIT
    subsidiaries in which we conduct a portion of our business.
    Despite our qualification as a REIT, our taxable REIT
    subsidiaries must pay income tax on their taxable income. In
    addition, we must comply with various tests to continue to
    qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and
    our income from and investments in our taxable REIT subsidiaries
    generally do not constitute permissible income and investments
    for these tests. While we will attempt to ensure that our
    dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries will not adversely
    affect our REIT qualification, we cannot provide assurance that
    we will successfully achieve that result. Furthermore, we may be
    subject to a 100% penalty tax, we may jeopardize our ability to
    retain future gains on real property sales, or our taxable REIT
    subsidiaries may be denied deductions, to the extent our
    dealings with our taxable REIT subsidiaries are not deemed to be
    arm’s length in nature or are otherwise not respected.


 


    Certain Property Transfers May Generate Prohibited
    Transaction Income, Resulting in a Penalty Tax on Gain
    Attributable to the Transaction.  From time to
    time, we may transfer or otherwise dispose of some of our
    properties. Under the Code, any gain resulting from transfers of
    properties that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to
    customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated as
    income from a prohibited transaction subject to a 100% penalty
    tax. Since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do
    not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of
    property are prohibited transactions. However, whether property
    is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that
    depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the
    particular transaction. The IRS may contend that certain
    transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited
    transactions. If the IRS were to argue successfully that a
    transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited
    transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax
    on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction and
    we may jeopardize our ability to retain future gains on real
    property sales. In addition, income from a prohibited
    transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the
    income tests for qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal
    income tax purposes.


 


    Changes in Market Conditions and Volatility of Stock Prices
    Could Adversely Affect the Market Price of Our Common
    Stock.  The stock markets, including the New York
    Stock Exchange, on which we list our common shares, have
    experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. As a
    result, the market price of our common stock could be similarly
    volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a
    decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases
    unrelated to our operating performance or prospects.


 


    Property Ownership Through Joint Ventures May Limit Our
    Ability to Act Exclusively in Our Interest.  We
    have in the past and expect in the future to develop and acquire
    properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when
    we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. As
    a result, we could become engaged in a dispute with one or more
    of our joint venture partners that might affect our ability to
    operate a jointly-owned property. Moreover, joint venture
    partners may have business, economic or other objectives that
    are inconsistent with our objectives, including objectives that
    relate to the appropriate timing and terms of any sale or
    refinancing of a property. In some instances, joint venture
    partners may have competing interests in our markets that could
    create conflicts of interest.



    
    16



Table of Contents



 


    Real Estate Tax and Other Laws.  Generally we
    do not directly pass through costs resulting from compliance
    with or changes in real estate tax laws to residential property
    tenants. We also do not generally pass through increases in
    income, service or other taxes, to tenants under leases. These
    costs may adversely affect funds from operations and the ability
    to make distributions to stockholders. Similarly, compliance
    with or changes in (i) laws increasing the potential
    liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or
    the restrictions on discharges or other conditions or
    (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws or other laws
    regulating housing, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act
    of 1990 and the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, may result
    in significant unanticipated expenditures, which would adversely
    affect funds from operations and the ability to make
    distributions to stockholders.


 


    Any Weaknesses Identified in Our Internal Control Over
    Financial Reporting Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Stock
    Price.  Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
    of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal
    report over financial reporting. If we identify one or more
    material weaknesses in our internal control over financial
    reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and
    completeness of our financial reports, which in turn could have
    an adverse effect on our stock price.


 


    Maryland Law May Limit the Ability of a Third Party to
    Acquire Control of Us, Which May Not be in Our
    Stockholders’ Best Interests.  Maryland
    business statutes may limit the ability of a third party to
    acquire control of us. As a Maryland corporation, we are subject
    to various Maryland laws which may have the effect of
    discouraging offers to acquire our company and of increasing the
    difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our
    acquisition would be in our stockholders’ best interests.
    The Maryland General Corporation Law restricts mergers and other
    business combination transactions between us and any person who
    acquires beneficial ownership of shares of our stock
    representing 10% or more of the voting power without our board
    of directors’ prior approval. Any such business combination
    transaction could not be completed until five years after the
    person acquired such voting power, and generally only with the
    approval of stockholders representing 80% of all votes entitled
    to be cast and
    662/3%
    of the votes entitled to be cast, excluding the interested
    stockholder, or upon payment of a fair price. Maryland law also
    provides generally that a person who acquires shares of our
    equity stock that represents 10% (and certain higher levels) of
    the voting power in electing directors will have no voting
    rights unless approved by a vote of two-thirds of the shares
    eligible to vote.


 


    Limitations on Share Ownership and Limitations on the Ability
    of Our Stockholders to Effect a Change in Control of Our Company
    May Prevent Takeovers That are Beneficial to Our
    Stockholders.  One of the requirements for
    maintenance of our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal
    income tax purposes is that no more than 50% in value of our
    outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer
    individuals, including entities specified in the Code, during
    the last half of any taxable year. Our charter contains
    ownership and transfer restrictions relating to our stock
    primarily to assist us in complying with this and other REIT
    ownership requirements; however, the restrictions may have the
    effect of preventing a change of control, which does not
    threaten REIT status. These restrictions include a provision
    that generally limits ownership by any person of more than 9.9%
    of the value of our outstanding equity stock, unless our board
    of directors exempts the person from such ownership limitation,
    provided that any such exemption shall not allow the person to
    exceed 13% of the value of our outstanding equity stock. These
    provisions may have the effect of delaying, deferring or
    preventing someone from taking control of us, even though a
    change of control might involve a premium price for our
    stockholders or might otherwise be in our stockholders’
    best interests.


 


    Under the terms of our shareholder rights plan, our board of
    directors can, in effect, prevent a person or group from
    acquiring more than 15% of the outstanding shares of our common
    stock. Unless our board of directors approves the person’s
    purchase, after that person acquires more than 15% of our
    outstanding common stock, all other stockholders will have the
    right to purchase securities from us at a price that is less
    than their then fair market value. Purchases by other
    stockholders would substantially reduce the value and influence
    of the shares of our common stock owned by the acquiring person.
    Our board of directors, however, can prevent the shareholder
    rights plan from operating in this manner. This gives our board
    of directors significant discretion to approve or disapprove a
    person’s efforts to acquire a large interest in us.
    Additional information regarding our shareholder rights plan is
    set forth in Note 6 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statement included elsewhere in this Report.



    
    17



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1B