Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K
    for the year ended January 29, 2011. We assume no
    obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result
    of new information, future events or developments. References in
    the following discussion to “we”, “us”,
    “our”, “the Company”, “Ulta” and
    similar references mean Ulta Salon, Cosmetics &
    Fragrance, Inc. unless otherwise expressly stated or the context
    otherwise requires.



 



    Part I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    Overview


 


    Ulta Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. is the largest
    beauty retailer that provides one-stop shopping for prestige,
    mass and salon products and salon services in the United States.
    We focus on providing affordable indulgence to our customers by
    combining the product breadth, value and convenience of a beauty
    superstore with the distinctive environment and experience of a
    specialty retailer. Key aspects of our business include:


 


    One-Stop Shopping.  Our customers can satisfy
    all of their beauty needs at Ulta. We offer a unique combination
    of over 21,000 prestige and mass beauty products organized by
    category in bright, open, self-service displays to encourage our
    customers to play, touch, test, learn and explore. We believe we
    offer the widest selection of categories across prestige and
    mass cosmetics, fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body
    products and salon styling tools. We also offer a full-service
    salon and a wide range of salon haircare products in all of our
    stores.


 


    Our Value Proposition.  We believe our focus on
    delivering a compelling value proposition to our customers
    across all of our product categories is fundamental to our
    customer loyalty. For example, we run frequent promotions and
    gift coupons for our mass brands, gift-with-purchase offers and
    multi-product gift sets for our prestige brands, and a
    comprehensive customer loyalty program. We also maintain a
    strategic value relationship with others in the category through
    competitive pricing and promotion.


 


    An Off-Mall Location.  We are conveniently
    located in high-traffic, primarily off-mall locations such as
    power centers and lifestyle centers with other destination
    retailers. Our typical store is approximately 10,000 square
    feet, including approximately 950 square feet dedicated to
    our full-service salon. Our displays, store design and open
    layout allow us the flexibility to respond to consumer trends
    and changes in our merchandising strategy.




    
    3



Table of Contents





    We were founded in 1990 as a discount beauty retailer at a time
    when prestige, mass and salon products were sold through
    distinct channels — department stores for prestige
    products, drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass products,
    and salons and authorized retail outlets for professional hair
    care products. After extensive research, we recognized an
    opportunity to better satisfy how a woman wanted to shop for
    beauty products. This led to what we believe to be a unique
    retail approach that focuses on all aspects of how women prefer
    to shop for beauty products by combining the fundamental
    elements of a beauty superstore, including one-stop shopping, a
    compelling value proposition and convenient locations, together
    with an uplifting specialty retail experience. While we are
    currently executing on the core elements of our business
    strategy, we plan to continually refine our approach in order to
    further enhance the shopping experience for our customers.


 



    Our
    competitive strengths


 


    We believe the following competitive strengths differentiate us
    from our competitors and are critical to our continuing success:


 


    Differentiated merchandising strategy with broad
    appeal.  We believe our broad selection of
    merchandise across categories, price points and brands offers a
    unique shopping experience for our customers. While the products
    we sell can be found in department stores, specialty stores,
    salons, drug stores and mass merchandisers, we offer all of
    these products in one retail format so that our customer can
    find everything she needs in one shopping trip. We appeal to a
    wide range of customers by offering over 500 brands, such as
    Bare Escentuals cosmetics, Chanel and Estée Lauder
    fragrances, L’Oréal haircare and cosmetics and Paul
    Mitchell haircare. We also have private label Ulta offerings in
    key categories. Because our offerings span a broad array of
    product categories in prestige, mass and salon, we appeal to a
    wide range of customers including women of all ages,
    demographics, and lifestyles.


 


    Our unique customer experience.  We combine the
    value and convenience of a beauty superstore with the
    distinctive environment and experience of a specialty retailer.
    We cater to the woman who loves to indulge in shopping for
    beauty products as well as the woman who is time constrained and
    comes to the store knowing exactly what she wants. Our
    distribution infrastructure consistently delivers a greater than
    95% in-stock rate, so our customers know they will find the
    products they are looking for. Our well-trained beauty
    consultants are not commission-based or brand-dedicated and
    therefore can provide unbiased and customized advice tailored to
    our customers’ needs. Together with our customer service
    strategy, our store locations, layout and design help create our
    unique retail shopping experience, which we believe increases
    both the frequency and length of our customers’ visits.


 


    Retail format poised to benefit from shifting channel
    dynamics.  Over the past several years, the
    approximately $96 billion beauty products and salon
    services industry has experienced significant changes, including
    a shift in how manufacturers distribute and customers purchase
    beauty products. This has enabled the specialty retail channel
    in which we operate to grow at a greater rate than the industry
    overall since at least 2000. We are capitalizing on these trends
    by offering a primarily off-mall, service-oriented specialty
    retail concept with a comprehensive product mix across
    categories and price points.


 


    Loyal and active customer base.  We have almost
    8 million customer loyalty program members. We utilize this
    valuable proprietary database to drive traffic, better
    understand our customers’ purchasing patterns and support
    new store site selection. We regularly distribute catalogs and
    newspaper inserts to entertain and educate our customers and,
    most importantly, to drive traffic to our stores.


 


    Strong vendor relationships across product
    categories.  We have strong, active relationships
    with over 300 vendors, including Estée Lauder, Bare
    Escentuals, Coty, L’Oréal and Procter &
    Gamble. We believe the scope and extent of these relationships,
    which span the three distinct beauty categories of prestige,
    mass and salon and have taken years to develop, create a
    significant impediment for other retailers to replicate our
    model. These relationships also frequently afford us the
    opportunity to work closely with our vendors to market both new
    and existing brands in a collaborative manner.


 


    Experienced management team.  We have an
    experienced senior management team with extensive retail
    experience that brings a creative merchandising approach and a
    disciplined operating philosophy to our





    
    4



Table of Contents





    business. Chuck Rubin was appointed President, Chief Operating
    Officer and a member of the Board of Directors effective
    May 10, 2010 and assumed the role of Chief Executive
    Officer on September 2, 2010. Mr. Rubin has over
    30 years of experience in the retail industry including
    senior executive level operating, merchandising and marketing
    management roles as well as partner level consulting roles
    across retail formats and
    e-commerce
    businesses. Mr. Rubin along with Gregg Bodnar, our Chief
    Financial Officer, lead our senior management team. Over the
    past several years, we have significantly expanded the depth of
    our management team at all levels and in all functional areas to
    support our growth strategy.


 



    Growth
    strategy


 


    We intend to expand our presence as a leading retailer of beauty
    products and salon services by pursuing the following primary
    growth strategies:


 


    Growing our store base to over 1,000 stores in the United
    States.  We continue to believe that over the
    long-term, we have the potential to grow our store base to over
    1,000 Ulta stores in the United States. Our internal real estate
    model takes into account a number of variables, including
    demographic and sociographic data as well as population density
    relative to maximum drive times, economic and competitive
    factors. We plan to continue opening stores both in markets in
    which we currently operate and new markets. As the economy
    recovers, we believe our successful track record of opening new
    stores in diverse markets across the United States will allow us
    to increase our new store growth rates back to historical levels
    consistent with our long-term target of 15% to 20%.


 


    We opened 47 new stores during fiscal 2010, representing a 13%
    increase in square footage growth and a 27% increase in the
    number of new stores opened compared to 37 in fiscal 2009. We
    also remodeled 13 stores and relocated 5 stores in fiscal 2010.
    The 2009 new store program was reduced primarily due to the
    uncertainty in the economy and the decline in high-quality
    commercial real estate projects that we typically target for our
    new store locations. Our fiscal 2010 new store program
    represents primarily new stores opened in existing centers
    compared to prior years when the new store openings were more
    balanced between new and existing centers. This trend is
    expected to continue for several more years. The shift to more
    existing centers had no impact on new store performance.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Fiscal Year


 




 


 


    2006


 


 


    2007


 


 


    2008


 


 


    2009


 


 


    2010


 



 






    Total stores beginning of period



 


 


    167


 


 


 


    196


 


 


 


    249


 


 


 


    311


 


 


 


    346


 





    Stores opened



 


 


    31


 


 


 


    53


 


 


 


    63


 


 


 


    37


 


 


 


    47


 





    Stores closed



 


 


    (2


    )


 


 


    —


 


 


 


    (1


    )


 


 


    (2


    )


 


 


    (4


    )




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total stores end of period



 


 


    196


 


 


 


    249


 


 


 


    311


 


 


 


    346


 


 


 


    389


 





    Stores remodeled



 


 


    7


 


 


 


    17


 


 


 


    8


 


 


 


    6


 


 


 


    13


 





    Total square footage



 


 


    2,023,305


 


 


 


    2,589,244


 


 


 


    3,240,579


 


 


 


    3,613,840


 


 


 


    4,094,808


 





    Average square footage per store



 


 


    10,323


 


 


 


    10,399


 


 


 


    10,420


 


 


 


    10,445


 


 


 


    10,526


 








 


    Increasing our sales and profitability by expanding our
    product, brand and service offerings.  Our
    strategy is to continue to expand our portfolio of products,
    brands and services both by capitalizing on the success of our
    existing vendor relationships and by identifying and developing
    new supply sources. Over the last several years we have added
    new products from existing vendors across product categories. We
    have also added a number of new brands in recent years, most
    notably in our prestige category which is currently the beauty
    industry’s highest growth category. Brand additions include
    Juicy Couture, Dolce and Gabanna, and Coach Poppy in fragrance,
    Dermalogica, Murad and Philosophy in skin care, Benefit, Cargo
    and Tarte in cosmetics and Pureology in hair care. We also offer
    haircare services in our full service salons as well as skin and
    brow services in each of our stores. We plan to continue
    expanding our portfolio of services in the future by
    establishing Ulta as a leading salon authority providing high
    quality and consistent services from our licensed stylists and
    introducing new beauty-related services.


 


    Enhancing our successful loyalty program.  We
    have almost 8 million active customer loyalty members who
    are enrolled in our loyalty programs. Loyalty member
    transactions represent more than 50% of our annual





    
    5



Table of Contents





    total net sales, and the transaction data demonstrates that
    loyalty members shop with higher frequency and spend more per
    visit as compared to non-members. We have been converting
    loyalty members from our National certificate program to the
    ULTAmate Rewards program which is a points-based program.
    Currently slightly more than 20% of our stores are on the
    points-based program. Both loyalty programs provide a robust
    database of information relative to customer information and
    shopping behavior which provides a significant long-term
    opportunity for CRM applications including enabling customer
    segmentation and
    one-on-one
    marketing communications tailored to our customers’ unique
    beauty needs.


 


    Broaden our marketing channels.  We believe a
    key component of our success is the brand exposure we get from
    our marketing initiatives, which provide an effective means to
    introduce new products, brands and services to our existing and
    potential new customers. We have, historically, utilized
    primarily direct mail advertising, catalogues and newspaper
    inserts to communicate with our customers. Our national magazine
    print advertising campaign exposes potential new customers to
    our retail and
    e-commerce
    businesses. We plan to continue to leverage our print marketing
    while expanding our reach into other marketing channels
    including television, digital, social media and
    e-mail
    marketing. We also believe we have an opportunity to increase
    our in-store marketing efforts as an additional means of
    educating our customers and increasing the frequency of their
    visits to our stores.


 


    Enhancing and expanding our
    e-commerce
    business.  Our website serves two roles: to
    generate direct channel sales and profits and as a vehicle to
    communicate with our customers in an interactive, enjoyable way
    to reinforce the Ulta brand and drive traffic to our stores. We
    continue to aggressively develop and add new website features
    and functionality, marketing programs, product assortment and
    new brands, and multi-channel integration points. We intend to
    establish ourselves over time as a leading online beauty
    resource for women by providing our customers with a rich online
    experience for information on key trends and products, editorial
    content, expanded assortments, leading website features and
    functionality, and social media content. Through our continued
    enhancements and multi-channel marketing initiatives, we believe
    we are well positioned to capitalize on the growth of Internet
    sales of beauty products. We believe our website and retail
    stores provide our customers with an integrated multi-channel
    shopping experience and increased flexibility for their beauty
    buying needs.


 


    Improving our profitability by leveraging our fixed
    costs.  We plan to continue to improve our
    operating results by leveraging our existing infrastructure and
    continually optimizing our operations. We will continue to make
    investments in our information systems to enable us to enhance
    our efficiency in areas such as merchandise planning and
    allocation, inventory management, distribution and point of sale
    (POS) functions. We believe we will continue to improve our
    profitability by reducing our operating expenses as a percentage
    of net sales, in particular supply chain, general corporate
    overhead and fixed store expenses.


 



    Our
    market


 


    We operate within the large and steadily growing
    U.S. beauty products and salon services industry. This
    market represents approximately $96 billion in retail
    sales, according to Euromonitor International and IBIS World
    Inc. The approximately $52 billion beauty products industry
    includes color cosmetics, haircare, fragrance, bath and body,
    skincare, salon styling tools and other toiletries. Within this
    market, we compete across all major categories as well as a
    range of price points by offering prestige, mass and salon
    products. The approximately $44 billion salon services
    industry consists of hair, face and nail services.


 


    Distribution for beauty products is varied. Prestige products
    are typically purchased in department or specialty stores, while
    mass products and staple items are generally purchased at drug
    stores, food retail stores and mass merchandisers. In addition,
    salon haircare products are sold in salons and authorized
    professional retail outlets.


 



    Competition


 


    Our major competitors for prestige and mass products include
    traditional department stores such as Macy’s and Nordstrom,
    specialty stores such as Sephora and Bath & Body
    Works, drug stores such as CVS/pharmacy and Walgreens and mass
    merchandisers such as Target and Wal-Mart. We believe the
    principal bases upon which we compete are the quality and
    assortment of merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of
    our





    
    6



Table of Contents





    customers’ shopping experience and the convenience of our
    stores as one-stop destinations for beauty products and salon
    services.


 


    The market for salon services and products is highly fragmented.
    Our competitors for salon services and products include Regis
    Corp., Sally Beauty, JCPenney salons and independent salons.


 



    Key
    trends


 


    We believe an important shift is occurring in the distribution
    of beauty products. Department stores, which have traditionally
    been the primary distribution channel for prestige beauty
    products, have been meaningfully affected by changing consumer
    preferences and industry consolidation over the past decade. We
    believe women, particularly younger generations, tend to find
    department stores intimidating, high-pressured and hinder a
    multi-brand shopping experience and, as such, are choosing to
    shop elsewhere for their beauty care needs. According to
    industry sources, 55% of women aged 18 to 24 shop in specialty
    stores, compared to 40% of women aged 18 to 64. Over the past
    ten years, department stores have lost significant market share
    to specialty stores in apparel, and we believe the beauty
    category is undergoing a similar shift in retail channels. We
    believe women are seeking a shopping experience that provides
    something different, a place to experiment, learn about various
    products, find what they want and indulge themselves. A recent
    Kline & Company report found that consumers seek out
    specialty retailers for a number of reasons including that
    specialty stores carry more niche products, the merchandise and
    retail environment is more fun and provides the ability to shop
    across product lines and the customer service is better than in
    other channels.


 


    As a result of this market transformation, there has been an
    increase in the number of beauty brands pursuing new
    distribution channels for their products, such as specialty
    retail, spas and salons, direct response television (i.e., home
    shopping and infomercials) and the Internet. In addition, many
    smaller brands are selling their products through these channels
    due to the high fixed costs associated with operating in most
    department stores and to capitalize on consumers’ growing
    propensity to shop in these channels. According to industry
    sources, color cosmetics sales through these channels are
    projected to grow at a higher rate than sales of color cosmetics
    in total. There are a growing number of brands that have built
    significant consumer awareness and sales by initially offering
    their products on direct response television. We benefit from
    offering brands that sell their products through this channel,
    as we experience increased store traffic and sales after these
    brands appear on television.


 


    Historically, manufacturers have distributed their products
    through distinct channels — department stores for
    prestige products, drug stores and mass merchandisers for mass
    products, and salons and authorized retail outlets for
    professional hair care products. We believe women are
    increasingly shopping across retail channels as well as
    purchasing a combination of prestige and mass beauty products.
    We attribute this trend to a number of factors, including the
    growing availability of prestige brands outside of department
    stores and increased innovation in mass products. Based on the
    competitive environment in which we operate, we believe that we
    have been at the forefront of breaking down the industry’s
    historical distribution paradigm by combining a wide range of
    beauty products, categories and price points under one roof. Our
    strategy reflects a more customer-centric model of how women
    prefer to shop today for their beauty needs.


 


    Major growth drivers for the industry include favorable consumer
    spending trends, product innovation and growth of certain
    population segments.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Baby Boomers (born between 1946 and 1964):  Baby
    Boomers have larger disposable incomes and are increasing their
    spending on personal care as well as health and wellness. The
    aging of the Baby Boomer generation is also influencing product
    innovation and demand for anti-aging products and cosmetic
    procedures.




 



     
        • 

    
    Generation X (born between 1965 and 1976):  Generation
    X is entering their peak earning years and represents a
    significant contributor to overall consumer spending, including
    beauty products. A recent survey by American Express showed that
    Generation X spends 60% more on beauty products than Baby
    Boomers. In addition, while prior generations grew up shopping
    in department stores and general








    
    7



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    merchandisers, Generation X has grown up shopping in specialty
    stores and we believe seeks a retail environment that combines a
    compelling experience, functionality, variety and location.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Generation Y (born between 1977 and 1994):  According
    to the United States Census Bureau data, the 20 to
    34 year-old age group is expected to grow by approximately
    10% from 2003 to 2015. As Generation Y continues to enter the
    workforce, they will have increased disposable income to spend
    on beauty products.





 


    We believe we are well positioned to capitalize on these trends
    and capture additional market share in the industry. We believe
    we have demonstrated an ability to provide a differentiated
    store experience for customers as well as offer a breadth and
    depth of merchandise previously unavailable from more
    traditional beauty retailers.


 



    Stores


 


    We are conveniently located in high-traffic, primarily off-mall
    locations such as power centers and lifestyle centers with other
    destination retailers. Our typical store is approximately
    10,000 square feet, including approximately 950 square
    feet dedicated to our full-service salon. We opened 47 stores in
    fiscal 2010 and the average investment required to open a new
    Ulta store is approximately $0.9 million, which includes
    capital investments, net of landlord contributions, pre-opening
    expenses, and initial inventory, net of payables. However, our
    net investment required to open new stores and the net sales
    generated by new stores may vary depending on a number of
    factors, including geographic location. As of January 29,
    2011, we operated 389 stores in 40 states.


 



    Store
    remodel program


 


    Our retail store concept, including physical layout, displays,
    lighting and quality of finishes, has continued to evolve over
    time to match the rising expectations of our customers and to
    keep pace with our merchandising and operating strategies. In
    recent years, our strategic focus has been on refining our new
    store model, improving our real estate selection process and
    executing on our new store opening program. As a result, we
    decided to limit the investments made in our existing store base
    from fiscal 2000 to fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2006, we developed
    and initiated a store remodel program to update our oldest
    stores to provide a consistent shopping experience across all of
    our locations. We remodeled 13 stores in fiscal 2010. Our newest
    store prototype, including new stores and remodels after 2005,
    represents approximately 75% of our store base. We continue to
    evolve this program to update older stores with a consistent
    look and experience to drive additional customer traffic and
    increase our sales and profitability. The remodel store
    selection process is subject to the same discipline as our new
    store real estate decision process. Our focus is to remodel the
    oldest, highest performing stores first, subject to criteria
    such as rate of return, lease terms, market performance and
    quality of real estate. The average investment to remodel a
    store in fiscal 2010 was approximately $0.9 million. Each
    remodel takes approximately three months to complete, during
    which time we typically keep the store open.


 



    Salon


 


    We operate full-service salons in all of our stores. Our current
    Ulta store format includes an open and modern salon area with
    eight to ten stations. The entire salon area is approximately
    950 square feet with a concierge desk, esthetics room,
    semi-private shampoo and hair color processing areas. Each salon
    is a full-service salon offering hair cuts, hair coloring and
    permanent texture, with most salons also providing facials and
    waxing. We employ licensed professional stylists and
    estheticians that offer highly skilled services as well as an
    educational experience, including consultations, styling
    lessons, skincare regimens, and at-home care recommendations.




    
    8



Table of Contents






    Ulta.com


 


    We established Ulta.com to give our customers an integrated
    multi-channel buying experience by providing them with an
    opportunity to access product offerings and information beyond
    our
    brick-and-mortar
    retail stores. The Ulta.com website and experience supports the
    key elements of the Ulta brand proposition and provides access
    to more than 13,000 beauty products from hundreds of brands. As
    Ulta.com continues to grow in terms of functionality and
    content, it will become an even greater element in Ulta’s
    marketing programs and a more important resource for our
    customers to access product and store information, beauty trends
    and techniques, and buy from a larger assortment of product
    offerings.


 



    Merchandising


 



    Strategy


 


    We focus on offering one of the most extensive product and brand
    selections in our industry, including a broad assortment of
    branded and private label beauty products in cosmetics,
    fragrance, haircare, skincare, bath and body products and salon
    styling tools. A typical Ulta store carries over 19,000 basic
    and over 2,000 promotional products. We present these products
    in an assisted self-service environment using centrally produced
    planograms (detailed schematics showing product placement in the
    store) and promotional merchandising planners. Our merchandising
    team continually monitors current fashion trends, historical
    sales trends and new product launches to keep Ulta’s
    product assortment fresh and relevant to our customers. We
    believe our broad selection of merchandise, from moderate-priced
    brands to higher-end prestige brands, offers a unique shopping
    experience for our customers. The products we sell can also be
    found in department stores, specialty stores, salons, mass
    merchandisers and drug stores, but we offer all of these
    products in one retail format so that our customer can find
    everything she needs in one stop. We believe we offer a
    compelling value proposition to our customers across all of our
    product categories. For example, we run frequent promotions and
    gift coupons for our mass brands, gift-with-purchase offers and
    multi-product gift sets for our prestige brands, and a
    comprehensive customer loyalty program.


 


    We believe our private label products are a strategically
    important category for growth and profit contribution. Our
    objective is to provide quality, trend-right private label
    products at a good value to continue to strengthen our
    customers’ perception of Ulta as a contemporary beauty
    destination. Ulta manages the full development cycle of these
    products from concept through production in order to deliver
    differentiated packaging and formulas to build brand image.
    Current Ulta cosmetics and bath brands have a strong following
    and we may expand our private label products into additional
    categories.


 



    The
    Five E’s


 


    In addition to offering one of the most extensive product and
    brand selections in our industry, we strive to offer an
    uplifting shopping experience through what we refer to as
    “The Five E’s”: Escape, Education, Entertainment,
    Esthetics and Empowerment.


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Escape.  We strive to offer our customers a
    timely escape from the stresses of daily life in a welcoming and
    approachable environment. Our customer can immerse herself in
    our extensive product selection, indulge herself in our hair or
    skin treatments, or discover new and exciting products in an
    interactive setting. We provide a shopping experience without
    the intimidating, commission-oriented and brand-dedicated sales
    approach that we believe is found in most department stores and
    with a level of service that we believe is typically unavailable
    in drug stores and mass merchandisers.




 



     
        • 

    
    Education.  We staff our stores with a team of
    well-trained beauty consultants and professionally licensed
    estheticians and stylists whose mission is to educate, inform
    and advise our customers regarding their beauty needs. We also
    provide product education through demonstrations, in-store
    videos and informational displays. Our focus on educating our
    customer reinforces our authority as her primary resource for
    beauty products and our credibility as a provider of consistent,
    high-quality salon services. Our beauty consultants are trained
    to service customers across all prestige lines and within our
    prestige “boutiques” where customers can receive a
    makeover or skin analysis.







    
    9



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Entertainment.  The entertainment experience
    for our customer begins at home when she receives our catalogs
    or visits our website. They are designed to introduce our
    customers to our newest products and promotions and to be
    invitations to come to Ulta to play, touch, test, learn and
    explore. A significant percentage of our sales throughout the
    year is derived from new products, making every visit to Ulta an
    opportunity to discover something new and exciting. In addition
    to providing over 4,500 testers in categories such as fragrance,
    cosmetics, skincare, and salon styling tools, we further enhance
    the shopping experience and store atmosphere through live
    demonstrations from our licensed salon professionals and beauty
    consultants, and through customer makeovers and in-store videos.




 



     
        • 

    
    Esthetics.  We strive to create a visually
    pleasing and inviting store and salon environment that
    exemplifies and reinforces the quality of our products and
    services. Our stores are brightly lit, spacious and attractive
    on the inside and outside of the store. Our store and salon
    design features sleek, modern lines that reinforce our status as
    a fashion authority, together with wide aisles that make the
    store easy to navigate and pleasant lighting to create a
    luxurious and welcoming environment. This strategy enables us to
    provide an extensive product selection in a well-organized store
    and to offer a salon experience that is both fashionable and
    contemporary.




 



     
        • 

    
    Empowerment.  We are committed to creating an
    environment in which women feel empowered by both their inner
    and outer beauty; we take honor in providing our guests with
    opportunities to showcase how they have empowered themselves and
    others. Ulta is committed to positively impacting the lives of
    women through our work on empowerment initiatives such as the
    Ulta Enrich, Empower and Enlighten Scholarship Fund which grants
    deserving high school senior girls scholarships to the
    educational institution of their choice.





 



    Category
    mix


 


    We offer products in the following categories:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Cosmetics, which includes products for the face, eyes, cheeks,
    lips and nails;




 



     
        • 

    
    Haircare, which includes shampoos, conditioners, styling
    products, and hair accessories;




 



     
        • 

    
    Salon styling tools, which includes hair dryers, curling irons
    and flat irons;




 



     
        • 

    
    Skincare and bath and body, which includes products for the
    face, hands and body;




 



     
        • 

    
    Fragrance for both men and women;




 



     
        • 

    
    Private label, consisting of Ulta branded cosmetics, skincare,
    bath and body products and haircare; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Other, including candles, home fragrance products and other
    miscellaneous health and beauty products.





 



    Organization


 


    Our merchandising team reports directly to our CEO and consists
    of a Senior Vice President of Merchandising who oversees; Senior
    Vice President of Prestige Cosmetics; Vice President of Mass
    Cosmetics, Skincare and Haircare; Vice President of Merchandise
    Operations; Vice President of Fragrance, Prestige Skin, Bath and
    Gift with Purchase; Divisional Merchandise Manager of Salon
    Products; Divisional Merchandise Manager of Styling Tools, and
    Director of Inventory. Reporting to the Senior Vice President of
    Merchandising are approximately 23 Divisional Merchandise
    Managers, Senior Buyers, Buyers and Assistant/Associate Buyers.
    Our merchandising team works directly with our centralized
    planning and replenishment group to ensure a consistent delivery
    of products across our store base.


 


    Our planogram department assists the merchants and replenishment
    team to keep new products flowing into stores on a timely basis.
    All major product categories undergo planogram revisions once or
    twice a year and adjustments are made to assortment mix and
    product placement based on current sales trends.


 


    Our visual department works with our merchandising team on every
    advertising event regarding strategic placement of promotional
    merchandise, along with functional signage and creative product
    presentation





    
    10



Table of Contents





    standards, in all of our stores. All stores receive a centrally
    produced promotional planner for each event to ensure consistent
    implementation.


 



    Planning
    and allocation


 


    We have developed a disciplined approach to buying and a dynamic
    inventory planning and allocation process to support our
    merchandising strategy. We centrally manage product
    replenishment to our stores through our planning and
    replenishment group. This group serves as a strategic partner
    to, and provides financial oversight of, the merchandising team.
    The merchandising team creates a sales forecast by category for
    the year. Our planning and replenishment group creates an
    open-to-buy
    plan, approved by senior executives, for each product category.
    The
    open-to-buy
    plan is updated weekly with POS data, receipts and inventory
    levels and is used throughout the year to balance buying
    opportunities and inventory return on investment. We believe
    this structure maximizes our buying opportunities while
    maintaining organizational and financial control. Regularly
    replenished products are presented consistently in all stores
    utilizing a merchandising planogram process. POS data is used to
    calculate sales forecasts and to determine replenishment levels.
    We determine promotional product replenishment levels using
    sales histories from similar or comparable events. To ensure our
    inventory remains productive, our planning and replenishment
    group, along with senior executives, monitors the levels of
    clearance and aged inventory in our stores on a weekly basis.


 



    Vendor
    relationships


 


    We work with over 300 vendors. Our Senior Vice President of
    Merchandising has over 30 years of experience and each
    merchandising vice president has over 15 years of
    experience developing relationships in the industry with which
    he or she works. We have no long-term supply agreements or
    exclusive arrangements with our vendors. Our top ten vendors
    represent approximately 48% of our total annual sales. These
    include vendors across all product categories, such as Bare
    Escentuals, Farouk Systems, L’Oréal,
    Procter & Gamble, and Coty, among others. We believe
    our vendors view us as a significant distribution channel for
    growth and brand enhancement.


 



    Marketing
    and advertising


 



    Marketing
    strategy


 


    We employ a multi-faceted marketing strategy to increase brand
    awareness and drive traffic to both our stores and website. Our
    marketing strategy complements a basic tenet of our business
    strategy, which is to provide our customers with a satisfying
    and uplifting experience. We communicate this vision to our
    customers and prospective customers through a multi-media,
    multi-touchpoint approach. Our primary media expenditure is in
    direct mail catalogs and free-standing newspaper inserts. These
    vehicles allow the customer to see the breadth of our selection
    of prestige, mass and salon beauty products.


 


    In order to reach new customers and to establish Ulta as a
    national brand, we advertise in national beauty and lifestyle
    magazines such as InStyle, Allure, Lucky, Elle and Vanity Fair.
    These advertising channels have historically been successful in
    raising our brand awareness on a national level and driving
    additional sales from both existing and new customers. In
    conjunction with our national brand advertising, we have
    initiated a public relations strategy that focuses on reaching
    top tier magazine editors to ensure consistent messaging in
    beauty magazines as well as
    direct-to-customer
    efforts through multi-media channels.


 


    Our
    e-commerce
    marketing strategy complements our print media strategy.
    Ulta.com serves not only as an
    e-commerce
    site, but additionally as an extension of Ulta’s marketing
    and prospecting strategies (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts
    and national advertising) by exposing potential new customers to
    the Ulta brand and product offerings and providing a
    24 hour forum for loyalists to engage with the brand. This
    dual role for Ulta.com exists through online marketing
    strategies including search marketing, affiliate marketing,
    social networking, banner advertising, and other online
    marketing channels. Ulta.com’s email marketing programs are
    also effective in communicating with and driving sales from
    online and retail store customers.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Customer
    loyalty programs


 


    We maintain two customer loyalty programs. Our national program
    provides reward point certificates for free beauty products.
    Customers earn purchase-based reward points and redeem the
    related reward certificate during specific promotional periods
    during the year. We are also rolling out a loyalty program in
    several markets in which customers earn purchase-based points on
    an annual basis which can be redeemed at any time. We have
    almost 8 million customer loyalty program members.


 



    Staffing
    and operations


 



    Retail


 


    Our current Ulta store format is staffed with a general manager,
    a salon manager, three to four assistant managers, and
    approximately twenty full and part-time associates, including
    approximately six to eight prestige consultants and eight to ten
    licensed salon professionals. The management team in each store
    reports to the general manager. The general manager oversees all
    store activities including salon management, inventory
    management, merchandising, cash management, scheduling, hiring
    and guest services. Members of store management receive bonuses
    depending on their position and based upon store sales and
    shrink. Each general manager reports to a district manager, who
    in turn reports to a Regional Vice President of Operations who
    in turn reports to the Senior Vice President of Operations who
    in turn reports to our Chief Executive Officer. Each store team
    receives additional support from time to time from recruiting
    specialists for the retail and salon operations, a field loss
    prevention team, salon technical trainers, management trainers
    and vendors.


 


    Ulta stores are open seven days a week, eleven hours a day,
    Monday through Saturday, and seven hours on Sunday. Our stores
    have extended hours during the holiday season.


 



    Salon


 


    A typical salon is staffed with eight to ten licensed salon
    professionals, including a salon manager, six stylists, and one
    to two estheticians. Our higher producing salons have a guest
    coordinator and an assistant manager. Our salon technical
    trainers and vendor education classes create a comprehensive
    educational program for approximately 3,000 Ulta salon
    professionals.


 



    Training
    and development


 


    Our success is dependent in part on our ability to attract,
    train, retain and motivate qualified employees at all levels of
    the organization. We have developed a corporate culture that
    enables individual store managers to make store-level operating
    decisions and consistently rewards their success. We are
    committed to improving the skills and careers of our workforce
    and providing advancement opportunities for our associates. Our
    associates and management teams are essential to our store
    expansion strategy. We primarily use existing managers or
    promote from within to support our new stores, although many
    outlying stores have all-new teams.


 


    All of our associates participate in an interactive new-hire
    orientation through which each associate becomes acquainted with
    Ulta’s vision and mission. Training for new store managers,
    prestige consultants and sales associates familiarizes them with
    opening and closing routines, guest service expectations, our
    loss prevention policy and procedures, and our culture. We also
    have ongoing development programs that include operational
    training for hourly associates, prestige consultants, management
    and stylists. We provide continuing education to both salon
    professionals and retail associates throughout their careers at
    Ulta. In contrast to the sales teams at traditional department
    stores, our sales teams are not commissioned or brand-dedicated.
    Our prestige consultants are trained to work across all prestige
    lines and within our prestige “boutiques”, where
    customers can receive a makeover or skin analysis.


 



    Distribution


 


    We operate two distribution facilities. The first facility,
    located in Romeoville, Illinois, is approximately
    317,000 square feet in size, including an overflow
    facility. During fiscal 2008, we began operating a second





    
    12



Table of Contents





    distribution facility in Phoenix, Arizona that is approximately
    330,000 square feet in size. We intend to open a third
    distribution center in fiscal 2012 to support our future growth
    needs.


 


    Inventory is shipped from our suppliers to our distribution
    facilities. We carry over 21,000 products and replenish our
    stores with such products primarily in eaches (i.e.,
    less-than-case
    quantities), which allows us to ship less than an entire case
    when only one or two of a particular product is required. Our
    distribution facilities use warehouse management and warehouse
    control software systems, which have been upgraded or installed
    in the last two years. All products are bar-coded, which
    supports real-time inventory management and processing accuracy
    throughout the distribution center. Store replenishment order
    selection is performed using industry standard
    put-to-light
    and various other wireless technologies. Product is delivered to
    stores using a broad network of contract carriers.


 



    Information
    technology


 


    We are committed to using technology to enhance our competitive
    position. We depend on a variety of information systems and
    technologies to maintain and improve our competitive position
    and to manage the operations of our growing store base. We rely
    on computer systems to provide information for all areas of our
    business, including supply chain, merchandising, POS,
    e-commerce,
    finance, accounting and human resources. Our core business
    systems consist mostly of a purchased software program that
    integrates with our internally developed software solutions. Our
    technology also includes a company-wide network that connects
    all corporate users, stores, and our distribution infrastructure
    and provides communications for credit card and daily polling of
    sales and merchandise movement at the store level. We intend to
    leverage our technology infrastructure and systems where
    appropriate to gain operational efficiencies through more
    effective use of our systems, people and processes. We update
    the technology supporting our stores, distribution
    infrastructure and corporate headquarters on a continual basis.
    We will continue to make investments in our information systems
    to facilitate our growth and enable us to enhance our
    competitive position.


 



    Intellectual
    property


 


    We have registered a number of trademarks in the United States,
    including Ulta Salon Cosmetics Fragrance (and design), Ulta.com,
    and Ulta Beauty and two related designs. The renewal dates for
    the identified marks are January 22, 2012 (Ulta Salon
    Cosmetics Fragrance (and design)), October 8, 2012
    (Ulta.com), July 10, 2017 (Ulta Beauty) and
    October 16, 2017 (the two Ulta Beauty related designs). All
    marks that are deemed material to our business have been
    registered in the United States and select foreign countries. We
    have applications pending for certain of these marks in Canada.


 


    We believe our trademarks, especially those related to the Ulta
    brand, have significant value and are important to building
    brand recognition.


 



    Government
    regulation


 


    In our U.S. markets, we are affected by extensive laws,
    governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court
    decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and
    other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local
    levels in the United States. The cosmetic and
    over-the-counter
    (OTC) drug products we sell in our stores, including our Ulta
    branded products, are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and
    State Attorneys General (AG) in the United States. Such
    regulations principally relate to the safety of ingredients,
    proper labeling, advertising, packaging and marketing of the
    products.


 


    Products classified as cosmetics (as defined in the Food, Drug
    and Cosmetic (FDC) Act) are not subject to pre-market approval
    by the FDA, but the products and the ingredients must be safe
    and must be properly labeled. Certain products, such as
    sunscreens and acne treatments, are classified as OTC drugs
    which have specific ingredient, labeling and manufacturing
    requirements. The labeling of cosmetic and OTC drug products is
    subject to the requirements of the FDC Act and the Fair
    Packaging and Labeling Act. Further, claims we make in
    advertising, including claims about the safety or efficacy of
    products, pricing claims and environmental claims, are subject
    to regulation by the FTC and State AG’s who generally
    prohibit deceptive practices.




    
    13



Table of Contents





    The government regulations that most impact our
    day-to-day
    operations are the labor and employment and taxation laws to
    which most retailers are typically subject. We are also subject
    to typical zoning and real estate land use restrictions and
    typical advertising and consumer protection laws (both federal
    and state). Our salon business is subject to state board
    regulations and state licensing requirements for our stylists
    and our salon procedures.


 


    In our store leases, we require our landlords to obtain all
    necessary zoning approvals and permits for the site to be used
    as a retail site and we also ask them to obtain any zoning
    approvals and permits for our specific use (but at times the
    responsibility for obtaining zoning approvals and permits for
    our specific use falls to us). We require our landlords to
    deliver a certificate of occupancy for any work they perform on
    our buildings or the shopping centers in which our stores are
    located. We are responsible for delivering a certificate of
    occupancy for any remodeling or build-outs that we perform and
    are responsible for complying with all applicable laws in
    connection with such construction projects or build-outs.


 



    Associates


 


    As of January 29, 2011, we employed approximately
    4,000 people on a full-time basis and approximately 7,700
    on a part-time basis. We have no collective bargaining
    agreements. We have not experienced any work stoppages and
    believe we have good relationships with our associates.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    Our principal website address is www.ulta.com. We make available
    at this address under investor relations (at
    http://ir.ulta.com),
    free of charge, our proxy statement, annual report to
    shareholders, annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the SEC. Information available on our website is
    not incorporated by reference in and is not deemed a part of
    this
    Form 10-K.
    In addition, our filings with the SEC may be accessed through
    the SEC’s Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval
    (EDGAR) system at www.sec.gov. You may read and copy any filed
    document at the SEC’s public reference rooms in
    Washington, D.C. at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330
    for further information about the public reference rooms. All
    statements made in any of our securities filings, including all
    forward-looking statements or information, are made as of the
    date of the document in which the statement is included, and we
    do not assume or undertake any obligation to update any of those
    statements or documents unless we are required to do so by law.



 



    Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors


 


    Investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk
    and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the following
    risks and all of the other information contained in this
    Form 10-K
    before making an investment decision. If any of the following
    risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of
    operations or future growth could suffer. In these
    circumstances, the market price of our common stock could
    decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment.


 



    The
    recent global economic crisis and volatility in global economic
    conditions and the financial markets as well as declines in
    consumer spending may adversely affect our liquidity and
    financial condition.


 


    The global economic crisis and volatility and disruption to the
    capital and credit markets have had a significant, adverse
    impact on global economic conditions, resulting in recessionary
    pressures and declines in consumer confidence and economic
    growth. These conditions have led to decreases in consumer
    spending across the economy. Increases in the levels of
    unemployment, energy costs, healthcare costs and taxes, combined
    with tighter credit markets, reduced consumer confidence and
    other factors, contribute to the decline in consumer spending.
    While this decline has recently moderated, the level of consumer
    spending is not where it was prior to the global recession, and
    economic conditions could lead to further declines in consumer
    spending in the future. Additionally, there can be no assurance
    that various governmental activities to stabilize the markets
    and stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or
    change spending habits. Reduced





    
    14



Table of Contents





    consumer spending could cause changes in customer order patterns
    and changes in the level of inventory purchased by our
    customers, and may signify a reset of consumer spending habits,
    all of which may adversely affect our industry, business and
    financial condition


 


    Economic conditions have also resulted in a tightening of the
    credit markets, including lending by financial institutions,
    which is a source of capital for our borrowing and liquidity.
    This tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of
    capital and reduced the availability of credit. Concern about
    the stability of the markets generally and the strength of
    counterparties specifically has led many lenders and
    institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to
    provide credit to businesses and consumers. These factors have
    led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike,
    and a corresponding decrease in global infrastructure spending.
    While global credit and financial markets appear to be
    recovering from extreme disruptions experienced over the past
    few years, uncertainty about continuing economic stability
    remains. It is difficult to predict how long the current
    economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue,
    the extent to which they will continue to recover, if at all,
    and which aspects of our products or business may be adversely
    affected. Current market and credit conditions could continue to
    make it more difficult for developers and landlords to obtain
    the necessary credit to build new retail centers. A significant
    decrease in new retail center development has adversely affected
    our new store program and could limit our future growth
    opportunities as long as the aforementioned conditions exist.
    Continued turbulence in the United States and international
    markets and economies and declines in consumer spending may
    adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition,
    including our ability to refinance maturing liabilities and
    access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs.


 



    Continued
    economic uncertainty may affect consumer purchases of
    discretionary beauty products and salon services, which could
    delay our growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition, profitability and cash
    flows.


 


    Our financial condition may be materially affected by conditions
    in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in
    the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress
    experienced by global capital markets in 2008 and 2009 persisted
    into 2010. Concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical
    issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the
    U.S. mortgage and real estate markets have contributed to
    volatility and diminished expectations for the economy. We offer
    a wide selection of beauty products and premium salon services.
    Continued uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact
    levels of consumer discretionary spending across all of our
    product categories including prestige beauty products and
    premium salon services. Factors that could affect
    consumers’ willingness to make such discretionary purchases
    include general business conditions, levels of employment,
    interest rates and tax rates, the availability of consumer
    credit, and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. A
    decrease in spending due to lower consumer discretionary income
    or consumer confidence could adversely impact our net sales and
    operating results, and could force us to delay or slow our
    growth strategy and have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows.


 


    Additionally, the general deterioration in economic conditions
    could adversely affect our commercial partners including our
    product vendors as well as the real estate developers and
    landlords who we rely on to construct and operate centers in
    which our stores are located. A bankruptcy or financial failure
    of a significant vendor or a number of significant real estate
    developers or shopping center landlords could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    profitability, and cash flows.


 



    We may
    be unable to compete effectively in our highly competitive
    markets.


 


    The markets for beauty products and salon services are highly
    competitive with few barriers to entry even when economic
    conditions are favorable. We compete against a diverse group of
    retailers, both small and large, including regional and national
    department stores, specialty retailers, drug stores, mass
    merchandisers, high-end and discount salon chains, locally owned
    beauty retailers and salons, Internet businesses, catalog
    retailers and direct response television, including television
    home shopping retailers and infomercials. We believe the
    principal bases upon which we compete are the quality of
    merchandise, our value proposition, the quality of our
    customers’ shopping experience and the convenience of our
    stores as one-stop destinations for





    
    15



Table of Contents





    beauty products and salon services. Many of our competitors are,
    and many of our potential competitors may be, larger and have
    greater financial, marketing and other resources and therefore
    may be able to adapt to changes in customer requirements more
    quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of
    their products, generate greater national brand recognition or
    adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. As a result,
    we may lose market share, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to gauge beauty trends and react to changing consumer
    preferences in a timely manner, our sales will
    decrease.


 


    We believe our success depends in substantial part on our
    ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    recognize and define product and beauty trends;




 



     
        • 

    
    anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a
    timely manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    translate market trends into appropriate, saleable product and
    service offerings in our stores and salons in advance of our
    competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    develop and maintain vendor relationships that provide us access
    to the newest merchandise on reasonable terms; and




 



     
        • 

    
    distribute merchandise to our stores in an efficient and
    effective manner and maintain appropriate in-stock levels.





 


    If we are unable to anticipate and fulfill the merchandise needs
    of the regions in which we operate, our net sales may decrease
    and we may be forced to increase markdowns of slow-moving
    merchandise, either of which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    If we
    fail to retain our existing senior management team or attract
    qualified new personnel, such failure could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    Our business requires disciplined execution at all levels of our
    organization. This execution requires an experienced and
    talented management team. Chuck Rubin was appointed President,
    Chief Operating Officer and a member of the Board of Directors
    effective May 10, 2010 and assumed the role of Chief
    Executive Officer on September 2, 2010. Any significant
    leadership or executive management transition involves inherent
    risks. In addition, if we were to lose the benefit of the
    experience, efforts and abilities of other key executive
    personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.
    Furthermore, our ability to manage our retail expansion will
    require us to continue to train, motivate and manage our
    associates. We will need to attract, motivate and retain
    additional qualified executive, managerial and merchandising
    personnel and store associates. Competition for this type of
    personnel is intense, and we may not be successful in
    attracting, assimilating and retaining the personnel required to
    grow and operate our business profitably.


 



    We
    intend to continue to open new stores, which could strain our
    resources and have a material adverse effect on our business and
    financial performance.


 


    Our continued and future growth largely depends on our ability
    to successfully open and operate new stores on a profitable
    basis. During fiscal 2010, we opened 47 new stores. We intend to
    continue to grow our number of stores for the foreseeable
    future, and believe we have the long-term potential to grow our
    store base to over 1,000 stores in the United States. During
    fiscal 2010, the average investment required to open a typical
    new store was approximately $0.9 million. This continued
    expansion could place increased demands on our financial,
    managerial, operational and administrative resources. For
    example, our planned expansion will require us to increase the
    number of people we employ as well as to monitor and upgrade our
    management information and other systems and our distribution
    infrastructure. These increased demands and operating
    complexities could cause us to operate our business less
    efficiently, have a material adverse effect on our operations
    and financial performance and slow our growth.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    The
    capacity of our distribution and order fulfillment
    infrastructure may not be adequate to support our recent growth
    and expected future growth plans, which could prevent the
    successful implementation of these plans or cause us to incur
    costs to expand this infrastructure, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    We operate two distribution facilities, which house the
    distribution operations for Ulta retail stores together with the
    order fulfillment operations of our
    e-commerce
    business. In order to support our recent and expected future
    growth and to maintain the efficient operation of our business,
    we intend to open a third distribution center in fiscal 2012.
    Our failure to expand our distribution capacity on a timely
    basis to keep pace with our anticipated growth in stores could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 



    Any
    significant interruption in the operations of our two
    distribution facilities could disrupt our ability to deliver
    merchandise to our stores in a timely manner, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 


    We distribute products to our stores without supplementing such
    deliveries with
    direct-to-store
    arrangements from vendors or wholesalers. We are a retailer
    carrying over 21,000 beauty products that change on a regular
    basis in response to beauty trends, which makes the success of
    our operations particularly vulnerable to disruptions in our
    distribution infrastructure. Any significant interruption in the
    operation of our supply chain infrastructure, such as
    disruptions in our information systems, disruptions in
    operations due to fire or other catastrophic events, labor
    disagreements, or shipping and transportation problems, could
    drastically reduce our ability to receive and process orders and
    provide products and services to our stores, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    Any
    material disruption of our information systems could negatively
    impact financial results and materially adversely affect our
    business operations, particularly during the holiday
    season.


 


    We are increasingly dependent on a variety of information
    systems to effectively manage the operations of our growing
    store base and fulfill customer orders from our
    e-commerce
    business. We have identified the need to expand and upgrade our
    information systems to support recent and expected future
    growth. The failure of our information systems to perform as
    designed could have an adverse effect on our business and
    results of our operations. Any material disruption of our
    systems could disrupt our ability to track, record and analyze
    the merchandise that we sell and could negatively impact our
    operations, shipment of goods, ability to process financial
    information and credit card transactions, and our ability to
    receive and process
    e-commerce
    orders or engage in normal business activities. Moreover,
    security breaches or leaks of proprietary information, including
    leaks of customers’ private data, could result in
    liability, decrease customer confidence in our company, and
    weaken our ability to compete in the marketplace, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    Our
    e-commerce
    operations, while relatively small, are increasingly important
    to our business. The Ulta.com website serves as an effective
    extension of Ulta’s marketing and prospecting strategies
    (beyond catalogs, newspaper inserts and national advertising) by
    exposing potential new customers to the Ulta brand, product
    offerings, and enhanced content. As the importance of our
    website and
    e-commerce
    operations to our business grows, we are increasingly vulnerable
    to website downtime and other technical failures. Our failure to
    successfully respond to these risks could reduce
    e-commerce
    sales and damage our brand’s reputation.


 



    Increased
    costs or interruption in our third-party vendors’ overseas
    sourcing operations could disrupt production, shipment or
    receipt of some of our merchandise, which would result in lost
    sales and could increase our costs.


 


    We directly source the majority of our gift-with-purchase and
    other promotional products through third-party vendors using
    foreign factories. In addition, many of our vendors use overseas
    sourcing to varying degrees to manufacture some or all of their
    products. Any event causing a sudden disruption of manufacturing
    or imports from such foreign countries, including the imposition
    of additional import restrictions, unanticipated political





    
    17



Table of Contents





    changes, increased customs duties, legal or economic
    restrictions on overseas suppliers’ ability to produce and
    deliver products, and natural disasters, could materially harm
    our operations. We have no long-term supply contracts with
    respect to such foreign-sourced items, many of which are subject
    to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may
    limit the quantity of certain types of goods that may be
    imported into the United States from such countries. Our
    business is also subject to a variety of other risks generally
    associated with sourcing goods from abroad, such as political
    instability, disruption of imports by labor disputes and local
    business practices. Our sourcing operations may also be hurt by
    health concerns regarding infectious diseases in countries in
    which our merchandise is produced, adverse weather conditions or
    natural disasters that may occur overseas or acts of war or
    terrorism in the United States or worldwide, to the extent these
    acts affect the production, shipment or receipt of merchandise.
    Our future operations and performance will be subject to these
    factors, which are beyond our control, and these factors could
    materially hurt our business, financial condition and results of
    operations or may require us to modify our current business
    practices and incur increased costs.


 



    A
    reduction in traffic to, or the closing of, the other
    destination retailers in the shopping areas where our stores are
    located could significantly reduce our sales and leave us with
    unsold inventory, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    As a result of our real estate strategy, most of our stores are
    located in off-mall shopping areas known as power centers or
    lifestyle centers, which also accommodate other well-known
    destination retailers. Power centers typically contain three to
    five big-box anchor stores along with a variety of smaller
    specialty tenants, while lifestyle centers typically contain a
    variety of high-end destination retailers but no large anchor
    stores. As a consequence of most of our stores being located in
    such shopping areas, our sales are derived, in part, from the
    volume of traffic generated by the other destination retailers
    and the anchor stores in the lifestyle centers and power centers
    where our stores are located. Customer traffic to these shopping
    areas may be adversely affected by the closing of such
    destination retailers or anchor stores, or by a reduction in
    traffic to such stores resulting from a regional economic
    downturn, a general downturn in the local area where our store
    is located, or a decline in the desirability of the shopping
    environment of a particular power center or lifestyle center.
    Such a reduction in customer traffic would reduce our sales and
    leave us with excess inventory, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations. We may respond by increasing markdowns or
    initiating marketing promotions to reduce excess inventory,
    which would further decrease our gross profits and net income.
    This risk is more pronounced during the current severe economic
    downturn which has resulted in a number of national retailers
    filing for bankruptcy or closing stores due to depressed
    consumer spending levels.


 



    Diversion
    of exclusive salon products, or a decision by manufacturers of
    exclusive salon products to utilize other distribution channels,
    could negatively impact our revenue from the sale of such
    products, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    The retail products that we sell in our salons are meant to be
    sold exclusively by professional salons and authorized
    professional retail outlets. However, incidents of product
    diversion occur, which involve the selling of salon exclusive
    haircare products to unauthorized channels such as drug stores,
    grocery stores or mass merchandisers. Diversion could result in
    adverse publicity that harms the commercial prospects of our
    products (if diverted products are old, tainted or damaged), as
    well as lower product revenues should consumers choose to
    purchase diverted product from these channels rather than
    purchasing from one of our salons. Additionally, the various
    product manufacturers could in the future decide to utilize
    other distribution channels for such products, therefore
    widening the availability of these products in other retail
    channels, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn from
    the sale of such products.




    
    18



Table of Contents






    We
    rely on our good relationships with vendors to purchase
    prestige, mass and salon beauty products on reasonable terms. If
    these relationships were to be impaired, or if certain vendors
    were unable to supply sufficient merchandise to keep pace with
    our growth plans, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient
    selection or volume of merchandise on reasonable terms, and we
    may not be able to respond promptly to changing trends in beauty
    products, either of which could have a material adverse effect
    on our competitive position, our business and financial
    performance.


 


    We have no long-term supply agreements or exclusive arrangements
    with vendors and, therefore, our success depends on maintaining
    good relationships with our vendors. Our business depends to a
    significant extent on the willingness and ability of our vendors
    to supply us with a sufficient selection and volume of products
    to stock our stores. Some of our prestige vendors may not have
    the capacity to supply us with sufficient merchandise to keep
    pace with our growth plans. We also have strategic partnerships
    with certain core brands, which have allowed us to benefit from
    the growing popularity of such brands. Any of our other core
    brands could in the future decide to scale back or end its
    partnership with us and strengthen its relationship with our
    competitors, which could negatively impact the revenue we earn
    from the sale of such products. If we fail to maintain strong
    relationships with our existing vendors, or fail to continue
    acquiring and strengthening relationships with additional
    vendors of beauty products, our ability to obtain a sufficient
    amount and variety of merchandise on reasonable terms may be
    limited, which could have a negative impact on our competitive
    position.


 


    During fiscal 2010, merchandise supplied to Ulta by our top ten
    vendors accounted for approximately 48% of our net sales. The
    loss of or a reduction in the amount of merchandise made
    available to us by any one of these key vendors, or by any of
    our other vendors, could have an adverse effect on our business.


 



    If we
    are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our
    brand and reputation could be harmed, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 


    We regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade
    secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical
    to our success. Our principal intellectual property rights
    include registered and common law trademarks on our name,
    “Ulta,” and other marks incorporating that name,
    copyrights in our website content, rights to our domain name
    www.ulta.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to our
    Ulta branded product formulations, product sourcing, sales and
    marketing and other aspects of our business. As such, we rely on
    trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and
    confidentiality agreements with certain of our employees,
    consultants, suppliers and others to protect our proprietary
    rights. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our
    trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary
    rights for any reason, or if other parties infringe on our
    intellectual property rights, our brand and reputation could be
    impaired and we could lose customers.


 



    If our
    manufacturers are unable to produce products manufactured
    uniquely for Ulta, including Ulta branded products and
    gift-with-purchase and other promotional products, consistent
    with applicable regulatory requirements, we could suffer lost
    sales and be required to take costly corrective action, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and
    therefore depend upon independent third-party vendors for the
    manufacture of all products manufactured uniquely for Ulta,
    including Ulta branded products and gift-with-purchase and other
    promotional products. Our third-party manufacturers of Ulta
    products may not maintain adequate controls with respect to
    product specifications and quality and may not continue to
    produce products that are consistent with applicable regulatory
    requirements. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to
    comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be
    required to take costly corrective action. In addition,
    sanctions under various laws may include seizure of products,
    injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and
    disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal
    prosecution. The FDA does not have a pre-market approval system
    for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our
    cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety
    or efficacy data to the FDA. However, cosmetic products may
    become subject to more extensive regulation in the future. These
    events could interrupt the marketing and sale of our Ulta
    products, severely damage our brand reputation and





    
    19



Table of Contents





    image in the marketplace, increase the cost of our products,
    cause us to fail to meet customer expectations or cause us to be
    unable to deliver merchandise in sufficient quantities or of
    sufficient quality to our stores, any of which could result in
    lost sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of operations.


 



    We, as
    well as our vendors, are subject to laws and regulations that
    could require us to modify our current business practices and
    incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    In our U.S. markets, numerous laws and regulations at the
    federal, state and local levels can affect our business. Legal
    requirements are frequently changed and subject to
    interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost
    of compliance with these requirements or their effect on our
    operations. If we fail to comply with any present or future laws
    or regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities, a
    prohibition on the operation of our stores or a prohibition on
    the sale of our Ulta branded products. In particular, failure to
    adequately comply with the following legal requirements could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    conditions and results of operations:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    In March 2010, comprehensive healthcare reform legislation under
    the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health
    Care Education and Affordability Reconciliation Act
    (collectively, the “Acts”) was passed and signed into
    law. This healthcare reform legislation significantly expands
    healthcare coverage to many uninsured individuals and to those
    already insured. Due to the breadth and complexity of the
    healthcare reform legislation and the lack of implementing
    regulations and interpretive guidance, it is difficult to
    predict the overall impact of the healthcare reform legislation
    on our business over the coming years. Possible adverse effects
    include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and
    requirements for us to revise the ways in which we conduct
    business. Additionally, because significant provisions of the
    Acts will become effective on various dates over the next
    several years, future changes could significantly impact any
    effects on our business that we previously anticipated.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our rapidly expanding workforce, growing in pace with our number
    of stores, makes us vulnerable to changes in labor and
    employment laws. In addition, changes in federal and state
    minimum wage laws and other laws relating to employee benefits
    could cause us to incur additional wage and benefits costs,
    which could hurt our profitability and affect our growth
    strategy.




 



     
        • 

    
    Our salon business is subject to state board regulations and
    state licensing requirements for our stylists and our salon
    procedures. Failure to maintain compliance with these regulatory
    and licensing requirements could jeopardize the viability of our
    salons.




 



     
        • 

    
    We operate stores in California, which has enacted legislation
    commonly referred to as “Proposition 65” requiring
    that “clear and reasonable” warnings be given to
    consumers who are exposed to chemicals known to the State of
    California to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity. Although we
    have sought to comply with Proposition 65 requirements, there
    can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by
    litigation relating to Proposition 65.





 


    In addition, the formulation, manufacturing, packaging,
    labeling, distribution, sale and storage of our vendors’
    products and our Ulta products are subject to extensive
    regulation by various federal agencies, including the FDA, the
    FTC and state attorneys general in the United States. If we, our
    vendors or the manufacturers of our Ulta products fail to comply
    with those regulations, we could become subject to significant
    penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations
    or our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the
    adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of
    existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs
    or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the
    marketability of our vendors’ products or our Ulta
    products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. Our
    failure to comply with FTC or state regulations that cover our
    vendors’ products or our Ulta product claims and
    advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may
    result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or
    otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products.




    
    20



Table of Contents






    As we
    grow the number of our stores in new cities and states, we are
    subject to local building codes in an increasing number of local
    jurisdictions. Our failure to comply with local building codes,
    and the failure of our landlords to obtain certificates of
    occupancy in a timely manner, could cause delays in our new
    store openings, which could increase our store opening costs,
    cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public
    reputation.


 


    Ensuring compliance with local zoning and real estate land use
    restrictions across numerous jurisdictions is increasingly
    challenging as we grow the number of our stores in new cities
    and states. Our store leases generally require us to provide a
    certificate of occupancy with respect to the interior build-out
    of our stores (landlords generally provide the certificate of
    occupancy with respect to the shell of the store and the larger
    shopping area and common areas), and while we strive to remain
    in compliance with local building codes relating to the interior
    buildout of our stores, the constantly increasing number of
    local jurisdictions in which we operate makes it increasingly
    difficult to stay abreast of changes in, and requirements of,
    local building codes and local building and fire
    inspectors’ interpretations of such building codes.
    Moreover, our landlords have occasionally been unable, due to
    the requirements of local zoning laws, to obtain in a timely
    manner a certificate of occupancy with respect to the shell of
    our stores
    and/or the
    larger shopping centers
    and/or
    common areas (which certificate of occupancy is required by
    local building codes for us to open our store), causing us in
    some instances to delay store openings. As the number of local
    building codes and local building and fire inspectors to which
    we and our landlords are subject to increases, we may be
    increasingly vulnerable to increased construction costs and
    delays in store openings caused by our or our landlords’
    compliance with local building codes and local building and fire
    inspectors’ interpretations of such building codes, which
    increased construction costs
    and/or
    delays in store openings could increase our store opening costs,
    cause us to incur lost sales and profits, and damage our public
    reputation.


 



    Our
    Ulta products and salon services may cause unexpected and
    undesirable side effects that could result in their
    discontinuance or expose us to lawsuits, either of which could
    result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation, which
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    Unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our Ulta
    products for which we have not provided sufficient label
    warnings, or salon services which may have been performed
    negligently, could result in the discontinuance of sales of our
    products or of certain salon services or prevent us from
    achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected
    products and services. Such side effects could also expose us to
    product liability or negligence lawsuits. Any claims brought
    against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy
    coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is in excess of
    our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves,
    which would reduce our capital resources. Further, we may not
    have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which
    case our creditors could levy against our assets. These events
    could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or
    products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Legal
    proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property
    infringement may require us to spend time and money and could
    prevent us from developing certain aspects of our business
    operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    Our technologies, promotional products purchased from
    third-party vendors, or Ulta products or potential products in
    development may infringe rights under patents, patent
    applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual
    property rights of third parties in the United States and
    abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us that
    would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful,
    could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a third
    party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit
    against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development,
    manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of
    the suit.


 


    As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to
    avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to
    seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be
    required to pay license fees or





    
    21



Table of Contents





    royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on
    acceptable terms, or at all. Ultimately, we could be prevented
    from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect
    of our business operations if, as a result of actual or
    threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are
    unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. Even if we
    were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive,
    which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual
    property. The inability to enter into licenses could harm our
    business significantly.


 


    In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a
    party to other patent or trademark litigation and other
    proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the
    United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) proceedings
    before the USPTO’s Trademark Trial and Appeal Board and
    opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding
    intellectual property rights with respect to products purchased
    from third-party vendors or our Ulta branded products and
    technology. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the
    costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because
    of their substantially greater financial resources.
    Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of
    intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could
    impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. Intellectual
    property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb
    significant management time and resources, which could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    Increases
    in the demand for, or the price of, raw materials used to build
    and remodel our stores could hurt our
    profitability.


 


    The raw materials used to build and remodel our stores are
    subject to availability constraints and price volatility caused
    by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, general
    economic conditions and other unpredictable factors. As a
    retailer engaged in an active building and remodeling program,
    we are particularly vulnerable to increases in construction and
    remodeling costs. As a result, increases in the demand for, or
    the price of, raw materials could hurt our profitability.


 



    Increases
    in costs of mailing, paper and printing will affect the cost of
    our catalog and promotional mailings, which will reduce our
    profitability.


 


    Postal rate increases and paper and printing costs affect the
    cost of our catalog and promotional mailings. In response to any
    future increases in mailing costs, we may consider reducing the
    number and size of certain catalog editions. In addition, we
    rely on discounts from the basic postal rate structure, such as
    discounts for bulk mailings and sorting by zip code and carrier
    routes. We are not a party to any long-term contracts for the
    supply of paper. The cost of paper fluctuates significantly, and
    our future paper costs are subject to supply and demand forces
    that we cannot control. Future additional increases in postal
    rates or in paper or printing costs would reduce our
    profitability to the extent that we are unable to offset those
    increases by raising selling prices or by reducing the number
    and size of certain catalog editions.


 



    Our
    secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictive
    covenants that could limit our operational flexibility,
    including our ability to open stores.


 


    We have a $200 million secured revolving credit facility,
    or credit facility, with a term expiring May 2013. Substantially
    all of our assets are pledged as collateral for outstanding
    borrowings under the agreement. Outstanding borrowings bear
    interest at the prime rate or Libor plus 2.00% and the unused
    line fee is 0.25%. The credit facility agreement contains usual
    and customary restrictive covenants relating to our management
    and the operation of our business. These covenants, among other
    things, limit our ability to grant liens on our assets, incur
    additional indebtedness, pay cash dividends and redeem our
    stock, enter into transactions with affiliates and merge or
    consolidate with another entity. These covenants could restrict
    our operational flexibility and any failure to comply with these
    covenants or our payment obligations would limit our ability to
    borrow under the credit facility and, in certain circumstances,
    may allow the lenders thereunder to require repayment.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    We may
    need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy,
    and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    From time to time we may seek additional equity or debt
    financing to provide for capital expenditures and working
    capital consistent with our growth strategy. In addition, if
    general economic, financial or political conditions in our
    markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a
    material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of
    our business as well as our belief as to the adequacy of our
    available sources of capital could change significantly. Any of
    these events or circumstances could result in significant
    additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional
    capital to meet those needs. If financing is not available on
    satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to execute our
    growth strategy as planned and our results of operations may
    suffer.


 



    Failure
    to maintain adequate financial and management processes and
    controls could lead to errors in our financial reporting and
    could harm our ability to manage our expenses.


 


    Reporting obligations as a public company and our anticipated
    growth are likely to place a considerable strain on our
    financial and management systems, processes and controls, as
    well as on our personnel. In addition, as a public company we
    are required to document and test our internal controls over
    financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 so that our management can
    periodically certify as to the effectiveness of our internal
    controls over financial reporting. As a result, we have been
    required to improve our financial and managerial controls,
    reporting systems and procedures and have incurred and will
    continue to incur expenses to test our systems and to make such
    improvements. If our management is unable to certify the
    effectiveness of our internal controls or if our independent
    registered public accounting firm cannot render an opinion on
    the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting, or if material weaknesses in our internal controls
    are identified, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a
    loss of public confidence, which could have a material adverse
    effect on our business and our stock price. In addition, if we
    do not maintain adequate financial and management personnel,
    processes and controls, we may not be able to accurately report
    our financial performance on a timely basis, which could cause a
    decline in our stock price and adversely affect our ability to
    raise capital.


 



    The
    market price for our common stock may be volatile, and an
    investor may not be able to sell our stock at a favorable price
    or at all.


 


    The market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate
    significantly from time to time in response to factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    differences between our actual financial and operating results
    and those expected by investors;




 



     
        • 

    
    fluctuations in quarterly operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    our performance during peak retail seasons such as the holiday
    season;




 



     
        • 

    
    market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes
    in recommendations by any research analysts that follow our
    stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research
    analysts;




 



     
        • 

    
    investors’ perceptions of our prospects and the prospects
    of the beauty products and salon services industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    the performance of our key vendors;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements by us, our vendors or our competitors of
    significant acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships,
    joint ventures or capital commitments;




 



     
        • 

    
    introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or
    by our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    small trading volumes and small public float;







    
    23



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    stock transactions by our principal stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    recruitment or departure of key personnel; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage
    for our common stock.





 


    In addition, public announcements by our competitors, other
    retailers and vendors concerning, among other things, their
    performance, strategy, or accounting practices could cause the
    market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our
    actual operating performance.


 



    Our
    comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance may
    fluctuate for a variety of reasons, which could result in a
    decline in the price of our common stock.


 


    Our comparable store sales and quarterly results of operations
    have fluctuated in the past, and we expect them to continue to
    fluctuate in the future. A variety of other factors affect our
    comparable store sales and quarterly financial performance,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    general U.S. economic conditions and, in particular, the
    retail sales environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in our merchandising strategy or mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    performance of our new and remodeled stores;




 



     
        • 

    
    the effectiveness of our inventory management;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing and concentration of new store openings, including
    additional human resource requirements and related pre-opening
    and other
    start-up
    costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings;




 



     
        • 

    
    levels of pre-opening expenses associated with new stores;




 



     
        • 

    
    timing and effectiveness of our marketing activities, such as
    catalogs and newspaper inserts;




 



     
        • 

    
    seasonal fluctuations due to weather conditions; and




 



     
        • 

    
    actions by our existing or new competitors.





 


    Accordingly, our results for any one fiscal quarter are not
    necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any
    other quarter, and comparable store sales for any particular
    future period may decrease. In that event, the price of our
    common stock would likely decline. For more information on our
    quarterly results of operations, see Item 7,
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations.”


 



    Our
    current principal stockholder has significant influence over us
    and they could delay, deter, or prevent a change of control or
    other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action
    with which you might not agree.


 


    Our principal stockholder owns or controls, in the aggregate,
    approximately 18% of our outstanding common stock. As a result,
    this stockholder will be able to exercise significant influence
    over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the
    election of directors, amendment of our certificate of
    incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions
    and will have significant influence over our management and
    policies. Such concentration of voting power could have the
    effect of delaying or deterring a change of control or other
    business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our
    stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of
    share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our
    common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in
    owning shares in companies with a stockholder holding such
    significant influence.




    
    24



Table of Contents






    Anti-takeover
    provisions in our organizational documents, stockholder rights
    agreement and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in
    control, even if a sale of the Company would be beneficial to
    our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline
    and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove
    our current management.


 


    Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and
    by-laws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in
    control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of
    our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock
    and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our
    common stock. These provisions include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    dividing our board of directors into three classes serving
    staggered three-year terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and
    additional shares of our common stock without stockholder
    approval;




 



     
        • 

    
    prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent;




 



     
        • 

    
    prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of
    stockholders;




 



     
        • 

    
    prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our
    amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and
    restated bylaws except with a two-thirds majority stockholder
    approval; and




 



     
        • 

    
    requiring advance notice for raising business matters or
    nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings.





 


    As permitted by our amended and restated certificate of
    incorporation and by-laws, we have a stockholder rights
    agreement, sometimes known as a “poison pill,” which
    provides for the issuance of a new series of preferred stock to
    holders of common stock. In the event of a takeover attempt,
    this preferred stock gives rights to holders of common stock
    other than the acquirer to buy additional shares of common stock
    at a discount, leading to the dilution of the acquirer’s
    stake.


 


    We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that, in
    general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial
    owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after
    the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified
    exceptions. Together, these provisions of our certificate of
    incorporation, by-laws and stockholder rights agreement and of
    Delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult
    and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve
    payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our
    common stock.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B