, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to the Health Reform Legislation and related matters. Other Federal Laws and Regulation We are subject to various levels of federal regulation. For example, when we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State Medicare and Medicaid businesses, as well as certain aspects of our Optum businesses. Our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to CMS (or state agencies) for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. CMS also has the right to audit performance to determine compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care given to Medicare beneficiaries. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and risk factors in this Form 10-K for a discussion of audits by CMS.Our UnitedHealthcare reporting segment, through UnitedHealthcare Community & State, also has Medicaid and CHIP contracts that are subject to federal regulations regarding services to be provided to Medicaid enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of these programs. There are many regulations surrounding Medicare and Medicaid compliance, and the regulatory environment with respect to these programs has become and will continue to become increasingly complex as a result of the Health Reform Legislation. In addition, certain of Optum's businesses hold contracts with federal agencies, including the U.S. Department of Defense, and we are subject to federal law and regulations relating to the administration of these contracts. Certain of UnitedHealthcare's and Optum's businesses, such as UnitedHealthcare's eyeglass manufacturing activities and Optum's high clinical acuity workflow software, hearing aid products, and clinical research activities, are subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and the clinical research activities are also subject to laws and regulations outside of the United States that regulate clinical trials. Laws and regulations relating to consumer protection, anti-fraud and abuse, anti-kickbacks, false claims, prohibited referrals, inappropriately reducing or limiting health care services, anti-money laundering, securities and antitrust also affect us. HIPAA, GLBA and Other Privacy and Security Regulation. The administrative simplification provisions of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), apply to both the group and individual health insurance markets, including self-funded employee benefit plans. HIPAA requires guaranteed health care coverage for small employers and certain eligible individuals. It also requires guaranteed renewability for employers and individuals and limits exclusions based on pre-existing conditions. Federal regulations related to HIPAA include minimum standards for electronic transactions and code sets, and for the privacy and security of protected health information. The HIPAA privacy regulations do not preempt more stringent state laws and regulations that may also apply to us. Federal privacy and security requirements change frequently because of legislation, regulations and judicial or administrative interpretation. For example, the U.S. Congress enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), which significantly amends, and adds new privacy and security provisions to HIPAA and imposes additional requirements on uses and disclosures of health information. ARRA includes new contracting requirements for HIPAA business associate agreements; extends parts of HIPAA privacy and security provisions to business associates; adds new federal data breach notification requirements for covered entities and business associates and new reporting requirements to HHS and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and, in some cases, to the local media; strengthens enforcement and imposes higher financial penalties for HIPAA violations and, in certain cases, imposes criminal penalties for individuals, including employees. We are awaiting final 9Table of Contentsregulations on many key aspects of the ARRA amendments to HIPAA. In the conduct of our business, we may act, depending on the circumstances, as either a covered entity or a business associate. Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personal identifiable information. The use and disclosure of individually identifiable health data by our businesses is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) or state statutes implementing GLBA, which generally require insurers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures before the insurer shares such information with a third party, and which generally require safeguards for the protection of personal information. See , “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to our PBM businesses. Privacy and Security Laws. States have adopted regulations to implement provisions of the GLBA. Like HIPAA, GLBA allows states to adopt more stringent requirements governing privacy protection. A number of states have also adopted other laws and regulations that may affect our privacy and security practices, for example, state laws that govern the use, disclosure and protection of social security numbers and sensitive health information or that are designed to protect credit card account data. State and local authorities increasingly focus on the importance of protecting individuals from identity theft, with a significant number of states enacting laws requiring businesses to notify individuals of security breaches involving personal information. State consumer protection laws may also apply to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information, including information related to consumers and care providers. Additionally, different approaches to state privacy and insurance regulation and varying enforcement philosophies in the different states may materially and adversely affect our ability to standardize our products and services across state lines. See , “Risk Factors,” for additional discussion of our risks related to competition.  EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2011, we employed approximately 99,000 individuals. We believe our employee relations are generally positive. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 8, 2012, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years: NameAgePositionStephen J. Hemsley59President and Chief Executive OfficerDavid S. Wichmann49Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group OperationsRichard N. Baer54Executive Vice President and Chief Legal OfficerGail K. Boudreaux51Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcareWilliam A. Munsell59Executive Vice PresidentEric S. Rangen55Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerLarry C. Renfro58Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of OptumLori Sweere53Executive Vice President of Human CapitalReed V. Tuckson, M.D.60Executive Vice President and Chief of Medical AffairsAnthony Welters56Executive Vice PresidentOur Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified.Mr. Hemsley is President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, has served in that capacity since January 2007, and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2000. Mr. Wichmann is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Wichmann has served as Executive Vice President and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations since April 2008. From January 2007 to April 2008, Mr. Wichmann served as 12Table of ContentsExecutive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Commercial Markets Group (now UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual). Mr. Baer is Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since May 2011. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Baer served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Qwest Communications International Inc. from 2007 to April 2011 and Chief Administrative Officer from August 2008 to April 2011.Ms. Boudreaux is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Ms. Boudreaux has overall responsibility for all UnitedHealthcare health benefits businesses. Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealthcare from May 2008 to January 2011. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of Health Care Services Corporation (HCSC) from January 2007 to April 2008. Mr. Munsell is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Munsell focuses on enterprise-wide initiatives, including emerging growth and expansion opportunities; public, regulatory and governmental affairs and representation; reputation and market image efforts, and external relationships and alliances for the enterprise. Mr. Munsell served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Enterprise Services Group from September 2007 to January 2011. From January 2007 to August 2007, Mr. Munsell served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. Mr. Rangen is Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2007. Mr. Renfro is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Optum and has served in that capacity since July 2011. From January 2011 to July 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. From October 2009 to January 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of the Public and Senior Markets Group. From January 2009 to October 2009, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Ovations (now UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement). Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Renfro served as President of Fidelity Developing Businesses at Fidelity Investments and as a member of the Fidelity Executive Committee from June 2008 to January 2009. From January 2007 to May 2008, Mr. Renfro held several senior positions at AARP Services Inc., including President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Services Inc., Chief Operating Officer of AARP Services Inc., President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Financial and President of the AARP Funds.Ms. Sweere is Executive Vice President of Human Capital of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since June 2007. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Sweere served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources of CNA Financial Corporation from January 2007 to May 2007. Dr. Tuckson is Executive Vice President and Chief of Medical Affairs of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2007. Mr. Welters is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2007. Mr. Welters focuses on enterprise-wide initiatives, including emerging growth and expansion opportunities; public, regulatory and governmental affairs and representation; reputation and market image efforts, and external relationships and alliances for the enterprise. Mr. Welters served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Public and Senior Market Group from September 2007 to January 2011. Additional Information UnitedHealth Group Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300. You can access our website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com to learn more about our Company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our Articles of Incorporation, bylaws and corporate governance policies, including our Principles of Governance, Board of Directors Committee Charters, and Code of Conduct. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary. Information on or linked to our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other SEC filings.Our transfer agent, Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to 13Table of Contentsour transfer agent at: Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, email stocktransfer@wellsfargo.com, or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064. ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTSThe statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in future filings by us with the SEC, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “plan,” project,” “should” or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.The following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. We do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. Any or all forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications.If we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Under our risk-based benefit product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. Premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. We generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. The profitability of these products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. In this regard, the Health Reform Legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for certain health plans, and authorized HHS to maintain an annual review process of “unreasonable” increases in premiums for commercial health plans. In addition, a number of states have enhanced (or are proposing to enhance) their premium review and approval processes. See the risk factor below relating to health care reform for further discussion of these provisions.We manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. Total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. Our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted in June the year before the contract year. We base the premiums we charge and our Medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period; however, medical cost inflation, regulation and other factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes, insured population characteristics and seasonal changes in the level of health care use. As a measure of the impact of medical costs on our financial results, relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if medical costs increased by 1% without a proportional change in related revenues for commercial insured products our annual net earnings for 2011 would have been reduced by approximately $215 million, excluding any offsetting impact from premium rebates. In addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. These estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. If these estimates prove too low, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14Table of ContentsOur business activities are highly regulated; new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to the regulations of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. For example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations, and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to PPOs, MCOs, utilization review and TPA-related regulations and licensure requirements. Some of our businesses hold or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws and regulations governing government contractors. See Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation” for further information.The laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change. For example, in the first quarter of 2010, the Health Reform Legislation was signed into law, legislating broad-based changes to the U.S. health care system. See Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation” for a discussion of the Health Reform Legislation. The broad latitude that is given to the agencies administering regulations governing our business, as well as future laws and rules, and interpretation and enforcement of those laws and rules by governmental enforcement authorities, could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, and increase our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions.We must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, to increase prices for certain regulated products and to complete certain acquisitions and dispositions, including integration of certain acquisitions. For example, premium rates for our health insurance and/or managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states, and a number of states have enhanced (or are proposing to enhance) their rate review processes. Delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Under state guaranty fund laws, certain insurance companies (and HMOs in some states), including those issuing health (which includes long-term care), life and accident insurance policies, doing business in those states can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business. Changes in these laws or the interpretation thereof, or insolvency by another insurer, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a discussion of a matter involving an unaffiliated entity, Penn Treaty, which has been placed in rehabilitation. Certain Optum businesses are also subject to regulatory and other risks and uncertainties in addition to the risks of our businesses of providing managed care and health insurance products. For example, state corporate practice of medicine doctrines and fee-splitting rules can impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. OptumHealth is subject to state telemedicine laws and regulations that apply to its telemedicine initiatives. Additionally, OptumHealth participates in the emerging private exchange markets and it is not yet known to what extent the states will issue new regulations that apply to private exchanges. These risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, or increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate. We are also involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for a discussion of certain of these matters. See also the risk factor below relating to our activities as a payer in various government health care programs for a discussion of audits by CMS. Reviews and investigations of this sort can lead to government actions, which can result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.The health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of routine governmental investigations, the political debate surrounding the Health Reform Legislation and the political environment in general. Negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets, foster an increasingly active regulatory environment or result in increased regulation and legislative review of industry practices. This may further increase our costs of doing business and the regulatory burdens under which we operate.Some of our businesses and operations are international in nature and consequently face political, economic, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational and other risks and exposures that are unique and vary by jurisdiction. The regulatory environments and associated requirements and uncertainties regarding tax, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, investment, management control, fraud and anti-corruption present additional challenges for us beyond those faced by U.S.-based businesses. Such requirements and uncertainties may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or 15Table of Contentsto do so at targeted margins, or increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate.For a discussion of various laws and regulations that impact our businesses, see Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation.” The enactment or implementation of health care reforms could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In the first quarter of 2010, the Health Reform Legislation was signed into law. The Health Reform Legislation expands access to coverage and modifies aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the Medicaid and Medicare programs and CHIP and other aspects of the health care system. Among other things, the Health Reform Legislation includes guaranteed coverage and expanded benefit requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, establishes minimum medical loss ratios, creates a federal premium review process, imposes new requirements on the format and content of communications (such as explanations of benefits, or EOBs) between health insurers and their members, grants to members new and additional appeal rights, imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits, reduces the Medicare Part D coverage gap and reduces payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage. Certain provisions of the Health Reform Legislation have already taken effect, and other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. HHS, the DOL and the Treasury Department have issued or proposed regulations on a number of aspects of Health Reform Legislation, but final rules and interim guidance on other key aspects of the legislation remain pending. Due to the complexity of the Health Reform Legislation, the impact of the Health Reform Legislation remains difficult to predict and is not yet fully known. For example, effective in 2011, the Health Reform Legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for all commercial health plans in the large employer group, small employer group and individual markets (85% for large employer groups, 80% for small employer groups and 80% for individuals, calculated under the definitions in the Health Reform Legislation and regulations). Companies with medical loss ratios below these targets are required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their customers annually. The potential for and size of the rebates will be measured by state, by group size and by licensed subsidiary. This disaggregation of insurance pools into much smaller pools will likely decrease the predictability of results for any given pool and could lead to variation over time in the estimates of rebates owed in total. Effective in 2014, Medicare Advantage plans will be required to maintain a minimum medical loss ratio of 85%. Depending on the results of these calculations and the manner in which we adjust our business model in light of these requirements, there could be meaningful disruptions in local health care markets, and our market share, revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.In addition, the Health Reform Legislation requires the establishment of state-based health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers by 2014. The types of exchange participation requirements ultimately enacted by each state, the availability of federal premium subsidies within exchanges, the potential for differential imposition of state benefit mandates inside and outside the exchanges, the operation of reinsurance, risk corridors and risk adjustment mechanisms inside and outside the exchanges and the possibility that certain states may restrict the ability of health plans to continue to offer coverage to individuals and small employers outside of the exchanges, could result in disruptions in local health care markets and our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.The Health Reform Legislation includes a “maintenance of effort” (MOE) provision that requires states to maintain their eligibility rules for people covered by Medicaid, until the Secretary of HHS determines that an insurance exchange is operational in a given state. The MOE provision is intended to prevent states from reducing eligibility standards and determination procedures as a way to remove adults above 133% of the federal poverty level from Medicaid before implementation of expanded Medicaid coverage effective in January 2014. However, states with, or projecting, a budget deficit may apply for an exception to the MOE provision. If states are successful in obtaining MOE waivers and allow certain Medicaid programs to expire, we could experience reduced Medicaid enrollment, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Several of the provisions in the Health Reform Legislation will likely increase our medical cost trends. Examples of these provisions are the excise tax on medical devices, annual fees on prescription drug manufacturers, enhanced coverage requirements (including discounted prescription drugs for Medicare Part D participants) and the prohibition of pre-existing condition exclusions. The annual insurance industry assessment ($8 billion levied on the insurance industry in 2014 with increasing annual amounts thereafter), which is not deductible for income tax purposes, will increase our operating costs. Premium increases will be necessary to offset the impact these and other provisions will have on our medical and operating costs. These premium increases are oftentimes subject to state regulatory approval. In this regard, the Federal government is encouraging states to intensify their reviews of requests for rate increases by commercial health plans and providing funding to assist in those state-level reviews. We have begun to experience greater regulatory challenges to appropriate premium rate increases in several states, including California, New York and Rhode Island. In addition, as required under the Health Reform Legislation, HHS established a federal premium rate review process, which became effective in September 2011 and generally 16Table of Contentsapplies to proposed rate increases equal to or exceeding 10% (with state-specific thresholds to be applicable commencing September 2012). The regulations further require commercial health plans in the individual and small group markets to provide to the states and HHS extensive information supporting any rate increases subject to the new federal rate review process. If we are not able to secure approval for adequate premium increases to offset increases in our cost structure, our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, plans deemed to have a history of “unreasonable” rate increases may be prohibited from participating in the state-based exchanges that become active under the Health Reform Legislation in 2014. Under the regulations, the HHS rate review process would apply only to health plans in the individual and small group markets.The Congressional Budget Office has estimated that up to 34 million new individuals may eventually gain insurance coverage if the Health Reform Legislation is implemented broadly in its current form. In addition, we expect that implementation of the Health Reform Legislation will increase the demand for products and capabilities offered by our Optum businesses. We have made and will continue to make strategic decisions and investments based, in part, on these assumptions, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if fewer individuals gain coverage under the Health Reform Legislation than estimated or we are unable to attract these new individuals to our UnitedHealthcare offerings, or if the demand for our Optum businesses does not increase. Certain aspects of the Health Reform Legislation are also being challenged in federal court, with the proponents of such challenges seeking to limit the scope of or have all or portions of the Health Reform Legislation declared unconstitutional. The United States Supreme Court is scheduled to hear oral arguments on certain aspects of these cases in March 2012, including the constitutionality of the individual mandate. Congress may withhold the funding necessary to implement the Health Reform Legislation, or may attempt to replace the legislation with amended provisions or repeal it altogether. Any partial or complete repeal or amendment or implementation difficulties, or uncertainty regarding such events, could materially and adversely impact our ability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the Health Reform Legislation or may cause us to incur additional costs of compliance. For example, if the individual mandate is declared unconstitutional or repealed without corresponding changes to other provisions of the Health Reform Legislation to protect against the risk of adverse selection (such as revisions to the guaranteed issue and renewal requirements, prohibition on pre-existing condition exclusions, and rating restrictions), our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Congress is also considering additional health care reform measures, and a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the Health Reform Legislation. The effects of the Health Reform Legislation and recently adopted state laws, and the regulations that have been and will be promulgated thereunder, are difficult to predict, and we cannot predict whether any other federal or state proposals will ultimately become law. Such laws and rules could force us to materially change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth in certain products and market segments, restrict premium growth rates for certain products and market segments, adversely change the nature of our contracted network relationships, increase our medical and administrative costs and capital requirements, expose us to an increased risk of liability (including increasing our liability in federal and state courts for coverage determinations and contract interpretation) or put us at risk for loss of business. In addition, our market share, our results of operations, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and our cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by such changes. For additional information regarding the Health Reform Legislation, see Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation” and Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties.” As a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments and audits that could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, various Medicaid programs and CHIP, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. We also provide services to payers through our Optum businesses. These programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. For example, CMS reduced or froze Medicare Advantage benchmarks that drive reimbursements between 2009 and 2011, and beginning in 2012, additional cuts to Medicare Advantage benchmarks will take effect, with changes being phased-in over two to six years, depending on the level of benchmark reduction in a county. Although we have adjusted members' benefits and premiums on a selective basis, terminated benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to these benchmark reductions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute successfully on these or other strategies to address changes in the Medicare Advantage program. As part of the Health Reform Legislation, CMS has developed a system whereby a plan that meets certain quality ratings will 17Table of Contentsbe entitled to various quality bonus payments. There can be no assurance that any of our plans will meet these quality ratings. Our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by funding reductions, or if our plans do not meet the requirements to receive quality bonus payments. Similarly, any reduction in Medicare Advantage payments could result in downward pressure on payments made to our Collaborative Care business in exchange for services provided to Medicare Advantage plans.Our participation in the Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, and various Medicaid and CHIP programs occurs through bids that are submitted periodically. Revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. Funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. A reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. State Medicaid programs are also imposing other reforms, such as medical loss ratio requirements on Medicaid managed care organizations, which generally require such plans to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their state customers if they cannot demonstrate they have met the ratio standards.CMS uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for Medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to Medicare Advantage plans and Medicare Part D plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers as well as, for Medicare Part D plans only, based on comparing costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. Some state Medicaid programs utilize a similar process. For example, our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to CMS or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. In 2008, CMS announced that it will perform risk adjustment data validation (RADV) audits of selected Medicare health plans each year to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been selected for audit. These audits may result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans. In December 2010, CMS published for public comment a new proposed RADV audit and payment adjustment methodology. The proposed methodology contains provisions allowing retroactive contract level payment adjustments for the year audited using an extrapolation of the “error rate” identified in audit samples. In February 2011, CMS announced that it would be making changes to the proposed methodology based, in part, on comments submitted by industry participants. As of the date of this filing, CMS has not published the revised methodology. Depending on the methodology utilized, potential payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, the Office of Inspector General for HHS has audited our risk adjustment data for two local plans and has initially communicated its findings, although we cannot predict the final outcome of the audit process. Any payment adjustments required as a result of the audits or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K for additional information regarding these audits.CMS conducts a variety of routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews across the industry. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2011, CMS conducted an audit of our Medicare Advantage and Part D business. We are in the process of responding to preliminary findings. As with any CMS review, in the event we fail to comply with applicable CMS and state laws, regulations and rules, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Under the Medicaid Managed Care program, state Medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care Medicaid health programs. If we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state Medicaid Managed Care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those Medicaid plans. Under the Medicare Part D program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. If the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. For example, we lost approximately 470,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members effective January 1, 2012, because certain of our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. In general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. In the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the Medicare program or other programs on which we bid, or our competitors submit bids at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 18Table of ContentsIf we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, or if we fail to address emerging security threats or detect and prevent privacy and security incidents, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. These laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. Further, many of our businesses are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS), which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. See Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation” for additional information. HIPAA also requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we still have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. Our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to privacy and security incidents; security attacks and breaches; acts of vandalism or theft; computer viruses; coordinated attacks by activist entities; emerging cybersecurity risks; misplaced or lost data; programming and/or human errors; or other similar events. Emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security which may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations. Compliance with new laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain our ability to manage our business model. For example, our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information may be further restricted, and we are awaiting final HHS regulations for many key aspects of the ARRA amendments to HIPAA, such as with regard to marketing, electronic health records and access reports (which may necessitate system changes). In addition, HHS has announced a pilot audit program to assess HIPAA compliance efforts by covered entities through 2012. Although we are not aware of HHS plans to audit any of our covered entities, an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows, including the following consequences: mandatory disclosure of a privacy or security breach to the media; significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents; enforcement actions; material fines and penalties; an impact on our ability to process credit card transactions as well as an increase in related expenses; litigation; compensatory, special, punitive, and statutory damages; consent orders regarding our privacy and security practices; adverse actions against our licenses to do business; and injunctive relief. Our businesses providing PBM services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the PBM industry that may differ from the risks of our business of providing managed care and health insurance products. We provide PBM services through our OptumRx and UnitedHealthcare businesses. Each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, customers and consumers. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average wholesale prices. See Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation” for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our PBM businesses. OptumRx also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. The failure to adhere to these laws and regulations could expose OptumRx to civil and criminal penalties. Our PBM businesses would be materially and adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. Disruptions at any of our mail order or specialty pharmacies due to an accident or an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to timely process and dispense prescriptions and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.In addition, our PBM businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to ERISA. The DOL, which is the agency that enforces ERISA, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our PBM businesses even where our PBM businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. In the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our PBM businesses in connection with services for which our PBM businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we 19Table of Contentscould be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or entering into certain prohibited transactions.UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual is transitioning pharmacy benefit management for approximately 12 million of its commercial members, including pharmacy claims adjudication and customer service, from Medco Health Solutions, Inc. to OptumRx beginning in 2013. If we are unable to execute the transition effectively, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual could face loss of business, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses compete throughout the United States and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. We compete with other companies on the basis of many factors, including price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives, location and choice of health care providers, quality of customer service, comprehensiveness of coverage offered, reputation for quality care, financial stability and diversity of product offerings. For our UnitedHealthcare reporting segment, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Health Net, Inc., Humana Inc., Kaiser Permanente, WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the BlueCross BlueShield Association and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas or market segments such as Medicare and Medicaid specialty services. For our OptumRx business, competitors include Medco Health Solutions, Inc., CVS/Caremark Corporation and Express Scripts, Inc. Our OptumHealth and OptumInsight reporting segments also compete with a broad and diverse set of businesses. In particular markets, competitors may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; existing business relationships; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both as to our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals) in these industries. Consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase customers, to improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or to maintain or increase profitability. If we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect, if membership or demand for other services declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, our business,  results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for services. Our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract for these services at competitive prices. Failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.In any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. In addition, physician or practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, may compete directly with us. If these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. Under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. Under some capitated arrangements, the provider may also receive additional compensation from risk sharing and other incentive arrangements. Capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. To the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. Further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the 20Table of Contentsservices available to our members. There can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. Some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. In those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. In some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. In some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. For example, we are involved in litigation with out-of-network providers, as described in more detail in “Litigation Matters” in Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Accountable care organizations (ACOs) and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals, and other care providers choose may change the way that these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. These changes may affect the way that we price our products and estimate our costs and may require us to incur costs to change our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. The success of certain Optum businesses depends on maintaining satisfactory physician relationships. The primary care physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with primary care physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and HMO competitors of UnitedHealthcare. If our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or HMO companies, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and certain health care providers are customers of our Optum businesses. Given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. Our products are sold in part through independent producers and consultants who assist in the production and servicing of business. We typically do not have long-term contracts with our producers and consultants, who generally are not exclusive to us and who typically also recommend and/or market health care products and services of our competitors. As a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. Our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to attract or retain independent producers and consultants or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. Because producer commissions are included as administrative expenses under the medical loss ratio requirements of the Health Reform Legislation, these expenses will be under the same cost reduction pressures as other administrative costs. Our relationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions. In addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive. These have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling these companies' products. For example, CMS and state departments of insurance have increased their scrutiny of the marketing practices of producers who market Medicare products. These investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products. Our relationship with AARP is important and the loss of such relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Under our agreements with AARP, we provide AARP-branded Medicare Supplement insurance, hospital indemnity insurance and other products and services to AARP members under a Supplement Health Insurance Program (the AARP Program). We also provide AARP-branded Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans to both AARP members and non-members. Our agreements with AARP extend to December 31, 2017 for the AARP Program and December 31, 2014 for the Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D offerings. Our agreements with AARP contain commitments regarding corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, diversity and measures intended to improve and simplify the health care experience for consumers. The AARP agreements may be terminated early under certain circumstances, including, depending on the 21Table of Contentsagreement, a material breach by either party, insolvency of either party, a material adverse change in our financial condition, material changes in the Medicare programs, material harm to AARP caused by us, and by mutual agreement. The success of our AARP arrangements depends, in part, on our ability to service AARP and its members, develop additional products and services, price the products and services competitively, meet our corporate governance, corporate social responsibility, and diversity commitments, and respond effectively to federal and state regulatory changes. The loss of our AARP relationship could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other things, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. These matters have included or could in the future include claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort (including claims related to the delivery of health care services), contract disputes and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. We are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. We are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. Although we maintain excess liability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. We record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters; however, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded. A description of significant legal actions in which we are currently involved is included in Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. The legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in select markets and businesses.Unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions may continue to impact demand for certain of our products and services. For example, decreases in employment have caused and could continue to cause lower enrollment in our employer group plans, lower enrollment in our non-employer individual plans and a higher number of employees opting out of our employer group plans. Unfavorable economic conditions have also caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions could continue to adversely impact our employer group renewal prospects and our ability to increase premiums and could result in cancellation of products and services by our customers. All of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. During a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP. A reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims, and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, a prolonged unfavorable economic environment could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. Further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our Optum businesses, including health plans, HMOs, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect Optum's financial results.Our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. Volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of December 31, 2011. Relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and a prolonged low interest rate environment could further 22Table of Contentsadversely affect our investment income. In addition, a delay in payment of principal and/or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our net investment income and we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which would materially and adversely affect our profitability and shareholders' equity. We also allocate a small proportion of our portfolio to equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can materially and adversely affect the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses. There can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our shareholders' equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders' equity and debt ratings could be materially and adversely affected. Goodwill and other intangible assets were $26.8 billion as of December 31, 2011, representing 39% of our total assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. For example, the manner in or the extent to which the Health Reform Legislation is implemented may impact our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets in our business. Similarly, the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. In addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders' equity could, in turn, adversely impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with existing debt covenants. Large-scale medical emergencies may result in significant medical costs and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. Such emergencies could materially and adversely affect the U.S. economy in general and the health care industry specifically. For example, in the event of a natural disaster, bioterrorism attack, pandemic or other extreme events, we could face, among other things, significant medical costs and increased use of health care services. Any such disaster or similar event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. If we fail to properly maintain the integrity or availability of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to adequately price our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to accurately report our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. As a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we have been consolidating and integrating the number of systems we operate and have upgraded and expanded our information systems capabilities. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, emerging cybersecurity risks and threats, and changing customer patterns. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting our systems against cybersecurity risks and threats, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Certain of our businesses sell and install hardware and software products, and these products may contain unexpected design 23Table of Contentsdefects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. Connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. A failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, an uncertain and rapidly evolving federal, state, international and industry legislative and regulatory framework related to the health information technology market may make it difficult to achieve and maintain compliance and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market.If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. Such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Many of these subsidiaries are regulated by states' departments of insurance. We are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. The levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. A significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. In most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that exceed specified amounts. An inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment cycle, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Any failure by us to manage and complete acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. If we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. We are required to integrate these businesses into our internal control environment, which may present challenges that are different than those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult to manage. If we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims paying ability, financial strength, and credit ratings by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. Our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. Each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. Our ratings reflect each credit rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. Downgrades in our credit 24Table of Contentsratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.ITEM 1B