, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to the Health Reform Legislation and related matters. Other Federal Laws and Regulation We are subject to various levels of U.S. federal regulation. For example, when we contract with the federal government, we are subject to federal laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. CMS regulates our UnitedHealthcare businesses, and certain aspects of our Optum businesses. Our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement, UnitedHealthcare Community & State and OptumHealth businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to CMS (or state agencies) for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. CMS also has the right to audit performance to determine compliance with CMS contracts and regulations and the quality of care given to Medicare beneficiaries. Beginning in 2014, our commercial business may be subject to audit related to the risk adjustment and reinsurance data. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements” and , “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with HIPAA, GLBA and other privacy-related regulations. ERISA. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), regulates how goods and services are provided to or through certain types of employer-sponsored health benefit plans. ERISA is a set of laws and regulations that is subject to periodic interpretation by the DOL as well as the federal courts. ERISA places controls on how our business units may do business with employers who sponsor employee benefit health plans, particularly those that maintain self-funded plans. Regulations established by the DOL provide additional rules for claims payment and member appeals under health care plans governed by ERISA. Additionally, some states require licensure or registration of companies providing third-party claims administration services for health care plans. State Laws and Regulation Health Care Regulation. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. All of the states in which our subsidiaries offer insurance and HMO products regulate those products and operations. These states require periodic financial reports and establish minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has adopted model regulations that, when implemented by states would require certain governance practices substantially similar to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and expand insurance company and HMO risk and solvency assessment reporting. We expect that states will adopt these or similar measures over the next few years, expanding the scope of regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of HMOs and insurance companies. Certain states have also adopted their own regulations for minimum medical loss ratios with which health plans must comply. In addition, a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the Health Reform Legislation. We expect the states to continue to introduce and pass similar laws in 2013, and this will affect our operations and our financial results.Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations. Such regulations generally require registration with applicable state departments of insurance and the filing of reports that describe capital structure, ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general business operations. Some state 12Table of Contentsinsurance holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval of acquisitions and material intercompany transfers of assets, as well as transactions between the regulated companies and their parent holding companies or affiliates. These laws may restrict the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to our holding companies. In addition, some of our business and related activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including PPO, managed care organization (MCO), utilization review (UR) or TPA-related regulations and licensure requirements. These regulations differ from state to state, and may contain network, contracting, product and rate, and financial and reporting requirements. There are laws and regulations that set specific standards for delivery of services, appeals, grievances and payment of claims, adequacy of health care professional networks, fraud prevention, protection of consumer health information, pricing and underwriting practice and covered benefits and services. State health care anti-fraud and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks for referral of members, billing unnecessary medical services and improper marketing. Certain of our businesses are subject to state general agent, broker, and sales distributions laws and regulations. Our UnitedHealthcare Community & State, UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and certain Optum businesses are subject to regulation by state Medicaid agencies that oversee the provision of benefits to our Medicaid and CHIP beneficiaries and to our dually eligible beneficiaries. We also contract with state governmental entities and are subject to state laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of state government contracts. Guaranty Fund Assessments. Under state guaranty fund laws, certain insurance companies (and HMOs in some states), including those issuing health, long-term care, life and accident insurance policies, doing business in those states can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business. Assessments generally are based on a formula relating to premiums in the state compared to the premiums of other insurers and could be spread out over a period of years. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets.Pharmacy Regulation. OptumRx’s mail order pharmacies must be licensed to do business as pharmacies in the states in which they are located. Our mail order pharmacies must also register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and individual state controlled substance authorities to dispense controlled substances. In many of the states where our mail order pharmacies deliver pharmaceuticals there are laws and regulations that require out-of-state mail order pharmacies to register with that state’s board of pharmacy or similar regulatory body. These states generally permit the pharmacy to follow the laws of the state in which the mail order pharmacy is located, although some states require that we also comply with certain laws in that state. Our mail order pharmacies maintain certain Medicare and state Medicaid provider numbers as pharmacies providing services under these programs. Participation in these programs requires the pharmacies to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations. Other laws and regulations affecting our mail order pharmacies include federal and state statutes and regulations governing the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and dispensing of controlled substances. See , “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with state privacy and security-related regulations. Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting Laws. Certain of our businesses function as direct service providers to care delivery systems and, as such, are subject to additional laws and regulations. Some states have corporate practice of medicine laws that prohibit certain entities from practicing medicine or employing physicians to practice medicine. Additionally, some states prohibit certain entities from sharing in the fees or revenues of a professional practice (fee-splitting). These prohibitions may be statutory or regulatory, or may be a matter of judicial or regulatory interpretation. These laws, regulations and interpretations have, in certain states, been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation and are subject to change.Consumer Protection Laws. Certain businesses participate in direct-to-consumer activities and are subject to emerging regulations applicable to on-line communications and other general consumer protection laws and regulations.Banking RegulationOptum Bank is subject to regulation by federal banking regulators, including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which performs annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with federal safety and soundness requirements, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which may perform periodic examinations to ensure 13Table of Contentsthat the bank is in compliance with applicable consumer protection statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. Optum Bank is also subject to supervision and regulation by the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions, which carries out annual examinations to ensure that the bank is operating in accordance with state safety and soundness requirements and performs periodic examinations of the bank’s compliance with applicable state banking statutes, regulations and agency guidelines. In the event of unfavorable examination results from any of these agencies, the bank could be subjected to increased operational expenses and capital requirements, enhanced governmental oversight and monetary penalties.International RegulationCertain of our businesses and operations are international in nature and are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they are organized or conduct business. These regulatory regimes encompass tax, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, investment, management control, labor, anti-fraud, anti-corruption and privacy and data protection regulations (including requirements for cross-border data transfers) that vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, among other matters. We have recently acquired and may in the future acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the United States, increasing our exposure to non-U.S. regulatory regimes. For example, our acquisition of Amil subjects us to Brazilian laws and regulations affecting the managed care and insurance industries and regulation by Brazilian regulators including the national regulatory agency for private health insurance and plans, the Agência Nacional de Saúde Suplementar (ANS), whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by U.S. regulators. For more information about the Amil acquisition, see Note 6 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statement included in Item 8, “Financial Statements.” In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are also subject to U.S. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.Audits and Investigations We have been and may in the future become involved in various governmental investigations, audits and reviews. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the Office of the Inspector General (OIG), the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, the FTC, U.S. Congressional committees, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), U.S. Attorneys, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Brazilian securities regulator, the Comissão de Valores Mobiliários (CVM), the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the Brazilian federal revenue service - the Secretaria da Receita Federal (SRF), the DOL, the FDIC and other governmental authorities. Certain of our businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for, among other things, compliance with coding and other requirements under the Medicare risk-adjustment model. Such government investigations, audits and reviews can result in assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs. In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation, audit results or sanctions could adversely affect our reputation in various markets and make it more difficult for us to sell our products and services while retaining our current business. COMPETITION As a diversified health and well-being services company, we operate in highly competitive markets. Our competitors include managed health care companies, insurance companies, HMOs, TPAs and business services outsourcing companies, health care professionals that have formed networks to directly contract with employers or with CMS, specialty benefit providers, government entities, disease management companies, and various health information and consulting companies. For our UnitedHealthcare businesses, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Health Net, Inc., Humana Inc., Kaiser Permanente, WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, and, with respect to our Brazilian operations, several established competitors in Brazil, and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas. For our OptumRx businesses, competitors include CVS Caremark Corporation, Express Scripts, Inc. and Catamaran Corporation. Our OptumHealth and OptumInsight reportable segments also compete with a broad and diverse set of businesses. New entrants into the markets in which we compete, as well as consolidation within these markets, also contribute to a competitive environment. We believe the principal competitive factors that can impact our businesses relate to the sales, marketing and pricing of our products and services; product innovation; consumer engagement and satisfaction; the level and quality of products and services; care delivery; network and clinical management capabilities; market share; product distribution systems; efficiency of administration operations; financial strength and marketplace reputation. If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for additional discussion of our risks related to competition.  EMPLOYEESAs of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 133,000 individuals. We believe our employee relations are generally positive. 14Table of ContentsEXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of February 6, 2013, including the business experience of each executive officer during the past five years: NameAgePositionStephen J. Hemsley60President and Chief Executive OfficerDavid S. Wichmann50Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group OperationsGail K. Boudreaux52Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcareEric S. Rangen56Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting OfficerLarry C. Renfro59Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of OptumMarianne D. Short61Executive Vice President and Chief Legal OfficerLori Sweere54Executive Vice President of Human CapitalOur Board of Directors elects executive officers annually. Our executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified.Mr. Hemsley is President and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealth Group, has served in that capacity since January 2008, and has been a member of the Board of Directors since February 2000. Mr. Wichmann is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Mr. Wichmann has served as Executive Vice President and President of UnitedHealth Group Operations since April 2008. From January 2008 to April 2008, Mr. Wichmann served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of the Commercial Markets Group (now UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual). Ms. Boudreaux is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of UnitedHealthcare and has served in that capacity since January 2011. Ms. Boudreaux has overall responsibility for all UnitedHealthcare health benefits businesses. Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and President of UnitedHealthcare from May 2008 to January 2011. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Boudreaux served as Executive Vice President of Health Care Services Corporation (HCSC) from January 2008 to April 2008. Mr. Rangen is Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2008. Mr. Renfro is Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Optum and has served in that capacity since July 2011. From January 2011 to July 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group. From October 2009 to January 2011, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of the Public and Senior Markets Group. From January 2009 to October 2009, Mr. Renfro served as Executive Vice President of UnitedHealth Group and Chief Executive Officer of Ovations (now UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement). Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Mr. Renfro served as President of Fidelity Developing Businesses at Fidelity Investments and as a member of the Fidelity Executive Committee from June 2008 to January 2009. From January 2008 to May 2008, Mr. Renfro held several senior positions at AARP Services Inc., including President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Services Inc., Chief Operating Officer of AARP Services Inc., President and Chief Executive Officer of AARP Financial and President of the AARP Funds.Ms. Short is Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2013. Prior to joining UnitedHealth Group, Ms. Short served as the Managing Partner at Dorsey & Whitney LLP from 2008 to 2012.Ms. Sweere is Executive Vice President of Human Capital of UnitedHealth Group and has served in that capacity since January 2008. 15Table of ContentsAdditional Information UnitedHealth Group Incorporated was incorporated in January 1977 in Minnesota. Our executive offices are located at UnitedHealth Group Center, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; our telephone number is (952) 936-1300. You can access our website at www.unitedhealthgroup.com to learn more about our Company. From that site, you can download and print copies of our annual reports to shareholders, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, along with amendments to those reports. You can also download from our website our Articles of Incorporation, bylaws and corporate governance policies, including our Principles of Governance, Board of Directors Committee Charters, and Code of Conduct. We make periodic reports and amendments available, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish these reports to the SEC. We will also provide a copy of any of our corporate governance policies published on our website free of charge, upon request. To request a copy of any of these documents, please submit your request to: UnitedHealth Group Incorporated, 9900 Bren Road East, Minnetonka, MN 55343, Attn: Corporate Secretary. Information on or linked to our website is neither part of nor incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other SEC filings.Our transfer agent, Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, can help you with a variety of shareholder-related services, including change of address, lost stock certificates, transfer of stock to another person and other administrative services. You can write to our transfer agent at: Wells Fargo Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 64854, St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0854, email stocktransfer@wellsfargo.com, or telephone (800) 468-9716 or (651) 450-4064. ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS CAUTIONARY STATEMENTSThe statements, estimates, projections, guidance or outlook contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in future filings by us with the SEC, in our news releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, and in oral statements made by or with the approval of one of our executive officers, the words or phrases “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “anticipate,” “plan,” project,” “should” or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are intended to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the PSLRA. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements.The following discussion contains cautionary statements regarding our business that investors and others should consider. We do not undertake to address or update forward-looking statements in future filings or communications regarding our business or results of operations, and do not undertake to address how any of these factors may have caused results to differ from discussions or information contained in previous filings or communications. In addition, any of the matters discussed below may have affected past, as well as current, forward-looking statements about future results. Any or all forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K and in any other public filings or statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors discussed below will be important in determining future results. By their nature, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Actual future results may vary materially from expectations expressed in this report or any of our prior communications. If we fail to effectively estimate, price for and manage our medical costs, the profitability of our risk-based products and services could decline and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Under our risk-based benefit product arrangements, we assume the risk of both medical and administrative costs for our customers in return for monthly premiums. Premium revenues from risk-based benefits products comprise approximately 90% of our total consolidated revenues. We generally use approximately 80% to 85% of our premium revenues to pay the costs of health care services delivered to these customers. The profitability of these products depends in large part on our ability to predict, price for, and effectively manage medical costs. In this regard, the Health Reform Legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for certain health plans and authorized HHS to maintain an annual price increase review process for commercial health plans, which could make it more difficult for us to price our products competitively. See the risk factor below relating to health care reform for further discussion of these provisions. In addition, our OptumHealth Collaborative Care business negotiates capitation arrangements with commercial third party payers. Under the typical capitation arrangement, the health care provider receives a fixed percentage of a third party payer’s premiums to cover all or a defined portion of the medical costs provided to the capitated member. If we fail to accurately predict, price for or manage the costs of providing care to our capitated members, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.We manage medical costs through underwriting criteria, product design, negotiation of favorable provider contracts and care management programs. Total medical costs are affected by the number of individual services rendered and the cost of each 16Table of Contentsservice. Our premium revenue on commercial policies is typically at a fixed rate per individual served for a 12-month period and is generally priced one to four months before the contract commences. Our revenue on Medicare policies is based on bids submitted in June the year before the contract year. We base the premiums we charge and our Medicare bids on our estimates of future medical costs over the fixed contract period; however, many factors may cause actual costs to exceed what was estimated and reflected in premiums or bids. These factors may include medical cost inflation, increased use of services, increased cost of individual services, natural catastrophes or other large-scale medical emergencies, epidemics, the introduction of new or costly treatments and technology, new mandated benefits (such as the expansion of essential benefits coverage) or other regulatory changes and insured population characteristics. Relatively small differences between predicted and actual medical costs or utilization rates as a percentage of revenues can result in significant changes in our financial results. For example, if our 2012 medical costs for commercial insured products were 1% higher, without proportionally higher revenues from such products, our annual net earnings for 2012 would have been reduced by approximately $215 million, excluding any offsetting impact from premium rebates.In addition, the financial results we report for any particular period include estimates of costs that have been incurred for which claims are still outstanding. These estimates involve an extensive degree of judgment. If these estimates prove too low, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business activities are highly regulated; new laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement or application could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our business is regulated at the federal, state, local and international levels. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by and are subject to the regulations of the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. For example, states require periodic financial reports and enforce minimum capital or restricted cash reserve requirements. Health plans and insurance companies are also regulated under state insurance holding company regulations, and some of our activities may be subject to other health care-related regulations and requirements, including those relating to PPOs, MCOs, utilization review and TPA-related regulations and licensure requirements. Some of our UnitedHealthcare and Optum businesses hold or provide services related to government contracts and are subject to U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. self-referral, anti-kickback, medical necessity, risk adjustment, false claims, debt collection and other laws and regulations governing government contractors and the use of government funds. In addition, under state guaranty fund laws, certain health, life and accident insurance companies and, in certain cases, HMOs can be assessed (up to prescribed limits) for certain obligations to the policyholders and claimants of insolvent insurance companies that write the same line or lines of business in these states, which would expose our business to the risk of insolvency of a competitor in these states.Certain of our Optum businesses are also subject to regulatory and other risks and uncertainties, some of which are distinct from those faced by our insurance and HMO subsidiaries, including, for example, FDA regulations, state telemedicine regulations and state corporate practice of medicine doctrines and fee-splitting rules, some of which could impact our relationships with physicians, hospitals and customers. Additionally, OptumHealth participates in the emerging private exchange markets and it is not yet known to what extent the states will issue new regulations that apply to private exchanges. These risks and uncertainties may materially and adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, or increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate.The laws and rules governing our business and interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change, and the integration into our businesses of entities that we acquire may affect the way in which existing laws and rules apply to us. The broad latitude given to the agencies administering, interpreting and enforcing current and future regulations governing our business could force us to change how we do business, restrict revenue and enrollment growth, increase our health care and administrative costs and capital requirements, or expose us to increased liability in courts for coverage determinations, contract interpretation and other actions.We must also obtain and maintain regulatory approvals to market many of our products, increase prices for certain regulated products and complete certain acquisitions and dispositions or integrate certain acquisitions. For example, premium rates for our health insurance and/or managed care products are subject to regulatory review or approval in many states and by the federal government, and a number of states have enhanced (or are proposing to enhance) their rate review processes. In addition, geographic and product expansions may be subject to state and federal regulatory approvals. Delays in obtaining necessary approvals or our failure to obtain or maintain adequate approvals could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Some of our businesses and operations are international in nature and consequently face political, economic, legal, compliance, regulatory, operational and other risks and exposures that are unique and vary by jurisdiction. The regulatory environments and associated requirements and uncertainties regarding tax, licensing, tariffs, intellectual property, privacy, data protection, investment, management control, labor relations, fraud and corruption present compliance requirements and uncertainties for us that are different from those faced by U.S.-based businesses. We have recently acquired and may in the future acquire or commence additional businesses based outside of the United States. For example, our acquisition of Amil in October 2012 17Table of Contentssubjects us to Brazilian laws and regulations affecting the managed care and insurance industries, which vary from comparable U.S. laws and regulations, and regulation by Brazilian regulators, whose approach to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of industry regulations could differ from the approach taken by U.S. regulators. For more information about the Amil acquisition, see Note 6 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements.” In addition, our non-U.S. businesses and operations are also subject to U.S. laws that regulate the conduct and activities of U.S.-based businesses operating abroad, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Our failure to comply with U.S. or non-U.S. laws and regulations governing our conduct outside the United States or to establish constructive relations with non-U.S. regulators could adversely affect our ability to market our products and services, or to do so at targeted margins, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The health care industry is also regularly subject to negative publicity, including as a result of governmental investigations, adverse media coverage and political debate surrounding industry regulation. Negative publicity may adversely affect our stock price, damage our reputation in various markets or foster an increasingly active regulatory environment, which, in turn, could further increase the regulatory burdens under which we operate and our costs of doing business.For a discussion of various laws and regulations that impact our businesses, see Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation.” The implementation of the Health Reform Legislation and other reforms could materially and adversely affect the manner in which we conduct business and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Health Reform Legislation expands access to coverage and modifies aspects of the commercial insurance market, as well as the Medicaid and Medicare programs, CHIP and other aspects of the health care system. Among other things, the Health Reform Legislation includes guaranteed coverage and expanded benefit requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded, establishes minimum medical loss ratios, creates a federal premium review process, imposes new requirements on the format and content of communications (such as explanations of benefits, or EOBs) between health insurers and their members, grants to members new and additional appeal rights, imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits, reduces the Medicare Part D coverage gap and reduces payments to private plans offering Medicare Advantage.Certain provisions of the Health Reform Legislation have already taken effect, and other provisions become effective at various dates over the next several years. HHS, the DOL and the Treasury Department have issued or proposed regulations on a number of aspects of Health Reform Legislation, but final rules and interim guidance on other key aspects of the legislation remain pending. Due to the complexity of the Health Reform Legislation, the impact of the Health Reform Legislation remains difficult to predict and is not yet fully known. For example, effective in 2011, the Health Reform Legislation established minimum medical loss ratios for all commercial health plans in the large employer group, small employer group and individual markets (85% for large employer groups, 80% for small employer groups and 80% for individuals, calculated under the definitions in the Health Reform Legislation and regulations), subject to state specific exceptions. Companies with medical loss ratios below these targets are required to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their customers annually. The medical loss ratios that determine the size of the rebates will be measured by state, by group size and by licensed subsidiary. This disaggregation of insurance pools into much smaller pools will likely decrease the predictability of results for any given pool and could lead to variation over time in the estimates of rebates owed in total. Effective in 2014, Medicare Advantage plans will be required to maintain a minimum medical loss ratio of 85%, although the rules expected to set forth the basis for calculating this medical loss ratio have not yet been issued. Some state Medicaid programs are also imposing medical loss ratio requirements on Medicaid managed care organizations, which generally require such plans to rebate ratable portions of their premiums to their state customers if they cannot demonstrate they have met the minimum medical loss ratios. Depending on our calculations of the medical loss ratios for each of our plans and the manner in which we adjust our business model in light of these requirements, there could be meaningful disruptions in local health care markets, and our market share, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.In addition, the Health Reform Legislation requires the establishment of state-based health insurance exchanges for individuals and small employers by 2014. The types of exchange participation requirements ultimately enacted by each state, the availability of federal subsidies for premiums and cost-sharing reductions within exchanges, the potential for differential imposition of state benefit mandates inside and outside the exchanges, the operation of reinsurance, risk corridors and risk adjustment mechanisms inside and outside the exchanges and the possibility that certain states may restrict the ability of health plans to continue to offer coverage to individuals and small employers outside of the exchanges could result in disruptions in local health care markets and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.The Health Reform Legislation also includes specific reforms for the individual and small group marketplace, scheduled to take effect in January 2014, including adjusted community rating requirements (which include elimination of health status and gender rating factors), essential health benefit requirements (expected to result in benefit changes for many members) and actuarial value requirements likely to result in expanded benefits or reduced member cost sharing (or a combination of both) for some policyholders. Although HHS issued proposed regulations related to these provisions in late 2012, the federal regulations 18Table of Contentsare not yet final and most states have not issued implementing regulations or guidance with respect to these provisions. Depending on the timing and outcome of the final federal regulations and required state regulations or guidance, there could be disruptions in local health care markets and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.The Health Reform Legislation includes a “maintenance of effort” (MOE) provision that requires states to maintain their eligibility rules for adults covered by Medicaid, until the Secretary of HHS determines that an insurance exchange is operational in a given state, scheduled for January 2014, and for children covered by Medicaid or CHIP, through federal fiscal year 2019. States with, or projecting, a budget deficit may apply for an exception to the MOE provision. If states are successful in obtaining MOE waivers and allow certain Medicaid programs to expire, we could experience reduced Medicaid enrollment, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Under the U.S. Supreme Court’s June 2012 decision, state participation in the Health Reform Legislation’s Medicaid expansion is voluntary. Several states have indicated they may not expand their Medicaid programs based on concerns over costs when expanded federal funding pares down, starting in 2017. The extent to which states expand their Medicaid programs, or discontinue current expansion programs, could adversely impact our Medicaid enrollment levels, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Several of the provisions in the Health Reform Legislation will likely increase our medical cost trends. Examples of these provisions are the excise tax on medical devices, annual fees on prescription drug manufacturers, enhanced coverage requirements (including essential health benefit requirements and phased-in closing of the coverage gap for Medicare Part D participants), the prohibition of pre-existing condition exclusions and the implementation of adjusted community rating requirements. The annual insurance industry assessment ($8 billion to be levied on the insurance industry in 2014 increasing to $14.3 billion by 2018 with increasing annual amounts thereafter), which is not deductible for income tax purposes, and the temporary reinsurer’s fee ($25 billion to be levied on all commercial lines of business including insured and self-funded arrangements, over a three-year period starting in 2014), will increase our operating costs. Premium increases or benefit reductions will be necessary to offset the impact these and other provisions will have on our medical and operating costs. These premium increases are often subject to state regulatory approval, and the Federal government is encouraging states to intensify their reviews of requests for rate increases by commercial health plans and providing funding to assist in those state-level reviews. We have begun to experience greater regulatory challenges to appropriate premium rate increases in several states, including California and New York. In addition, as required under the Health Reform Legislation, HHS established a federal premium rate review process, which became effective in September 2011 and generally applies to proposed rate increases equal to or exceeding 10%. The regulations further require commercial health plans in the individual and small group markets to provide to the states and HHS extensive information supporting rate increases. If we are not able to secure approval for adequate premium increases to offset increases in our cost structure or if consumers forego coverage as a result of such premium increases, our margins, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, plans deemed to have a history of “unreasonable” rate increases may be prohibited from participating in the state-based exchanges that become active under the Health Reform Legislation in 2014. Under the regulations, the HHS rate review process would apply only to health plans in the individual and small group markets.We also expect that implementation of the Health Reform Legislation will increase the demand for products and capabilities offered by our Optum businesses. We have made and will continue to make strategic decisions and investments based, in part, on these assumptions, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected if fewer individuals gain coverage under the Health Reform Legislation than we expect or we are unable to attract these new individuals to our UnitedHealthcare offerings, or if the demand for our Optum businesses does not increase. Future regulatory or legislative action could further impact the implementation of Health Reform Legislation. For example, Congress may attempt to amend or withhold the funding necessary to implement the Health Reform Legislation. In addition, a number of state legislatures have enacted or are contemplating significant reforms of their health insurance markets, either independent of or to comply with or be eligible for grants or other incentives in connection with the Health Reform Legislation. New federal or state laws and regulations could force us to materially change how we do business and any amendment, withholding of funding, extended delays in the issuance of necessary federal and state implementing regulations or guidance or other uncertainty regarding the Health Reform Legislation could materially and adversely impact our ability to capitalize on the opportunities presented by the legislation or cause us to incur additional costs of compliance or reverse some of the changes we have already implemented. In addition, our market share, our results of operations, our financial position, including our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill, and our cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by legislative and regulatory changes. For additional information regarding the Health Reform Legislation, see Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Regulatory Trends and Uncertainties.” 19Table of ContentsAs a result of our participation in various government health care programs, both as a payer and as a service provider to payers, we are exposed to additional risks associated with program funding, enrollments, payment adjustments, audits and government investigations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We participate in various federal, state and local government health care coverage programs, including as a payer in Medicare Advantage, Medicare Part D, various Medicaid programs, CHIP and our TRICARE West contract with the DoD, and receive substantial revenues from these programs. We also provide services to payers through our Optum businesses. These programs generally are subject to frequent changes, including changes that may reduce the number of persons enrolled or eligible for coverage, reduce the amount of reimbursement or payment levels, reduce our participation in certain service areas or markets, or increase our administrative or medical costs under such programs. Revenues for these programs are dependent upon periodic funding from the federal government or applicable state governments and allocation of the funding through various payment mechanisms. Funding for these government programs is dependent upon many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions and budgetary constraints at the federal or applicable state level, and general political issues and priorities. For example, CMS has in the past reduced or frozen Medicare Advantage benchmarks and additional cuts to Medicare Advantage benchmarks are expected in the next few years. Although we have adjusted members’ benefits and premiums on a selective basis, terminated benefit plans in certain counties, and intensified both our medical and operating cost management in response to these benchmark reductions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to execute successfully on these or other strategies to address changes in the Medicare Advantage program. A reduction or less than expected increase, or a protracted delay, in government funding for these programs or change in allocation methodologies may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Under the Medicaid Managed Care program, state Medicaid agencies are periodically required by federal law to seek bids from eligible health plans to continue their participation in the acute care Medicaid health programs. If we are not successful in obtaining renewals of state Medicaid Managed Care contracts, we risk losing the members that were enrolled in those Medicaid plans. Under the Medicare Part D program, to qualify for automatic enrollment of low income members, our bids must result in an enrollee premium below a regional benchmark, which is calculated by the government after all regional bids are submitted. If the enrollee premium is not below the government benchmark, we risk losing the members who were auto-assigned to us and we will not have additional members auto-assigned to us. For example, we lost approximately 470,000 of our auto-enrolled low-income subsidy members in 2012 because certain of our bids exceeded thresholds set by the government. In general, our bids are based upon certain assumptions regarding enrollment, utilization, medical costs, and other factors. In the event any of these assumptions are materially incorrect, either as a result of unforeseen changes to the Medicare program or other programs on which we bid, or our competitors submit bids at lower rates than our bids, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Many of the government health care coverage programs in which we participate are subject to the prior satisfaction of certain conditions or performance standards or benchmarks. For example, as part of the Health Reform Legislation, CMS has developed a system entitling plans that meet certain quality ratings at the local plan level to various quality bonus payments. In addition, under the Health Reform Legislation, Congress authorized CMS and the states to implement MME managed care demonstration programs to serve dually eligible beneficiaries to improve the coordination of their care. Health plan participation in these demonstration programs is subject to CMS approval of specified care delivery models and the satisfaction of conditions to participation, including meeting certain performance requirements. Any changes in standards or care delivery models that apply to government health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and the MME demonstration programs for dually eligible beneficiaries, or our inability to meet government performance requirements or to match the performance of our competitors could result in limitations to our participation in or exclusion from these or other government programs, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. CMS uses various payment mechanisms to allocate funding for Medicare programs, including adjusting monthly capitation payments to Medicare Advantage plans and Medicare Part D plans according to the predicted health status of each beneficiary as supported by data from health care providers as well as, for Medicare Part D plans, risk-sharing provisions based on a comparison of costs predicted in our annual bids to actual prescription drug costs. Some state Medicaid programs utilize a similar process. For example, our UnitedHealthcare Medicare & Retirement and UnitedHealthcare Community & State businesses submit information relating to the health status of enrollees to CMS or state agencies for purposes of determining the amount of certain payments to us. CMS and the Office of Inspector General for HHS periodically perform risk adjustment data validation (RADV) audits of selected Medicare health plans to validate the coding practices of and supporting documentation maintained by health care providers, and certain of our local plans have been audited. Such audits have in the past resulted and could in the future result in retrospective adjustments to payments made to our health plans, fines, corrective action plans or other adverse action by CMS. In February 2012, CMS published a final RADV audit and payment adjustment methodology. The methodology contains provisions allowing retroactive contract level payment adjustments for the year audited, beginning with 2011 payments, using an extrapolation of the “error rate” identified in audit samples and, for Medicare Advantage plans, after considering a fee-for-service (FFS) “error rate” adjuster that will be used in determining the payment 20Table of Contentsadjustment. Depending on the plans selected for audit, if any, and the error rate found in those audits, if any, potential payment adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. We have been and may in the future become involved in various governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments. These include routine, regular and special investigations, audits and reviews by CMS, state insurance and health and welfare departments, state attorneys general, the OIG, the Office of Personnel Management, the Office of Civil Rights, the FTC, U.S. Congressional committees, the DOJ, U.S. Attorneys, the SEC, the CVM, the IRS, the SRF, the DOL, the FDIC and other governmental authorities. Certain of our businesses have been reviewed or are currently under review, including for, among other things, compliance with coding and other requirements under the Medicare risk-adjustment model. Such investigations, audits or reviews sometimes arise out of or prompt claims by private litigants or whistleblowers that, among other things, we failed to disclose certain business practices or, as a government contractor, submitted false claims to the government. Governmental investigations, audits, reviews and assessments could expand to subjects beyond those targeted by the original investigation, audit, review, assessment or private action and could lead to government actions, which could result in the assessment of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including restrictions or changes in the way we conduct business, loss of licensure or exclusion from participation in government programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements” for a discussion of certain of these matters.If we fail to comply with applicable privacy and security laws, regulations and standards, including with respect to third-party service providers that utilize sensitive personal information on our behalf, or if we fail to address emerging security threats or detect and prevent privacy and security incidents, our business, reputation, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. The collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information are regulated at the federal, state, international and industry levels and requirements are imposed on us by contracts with customers. These laws, rules and requirements are subject to change. Further, many of our businesses are subject to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI DSS), which is a multifaceted security standard that is designed to protect credit card account data as mandated by payment card industry entities. See Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation” for additional information. HIPAA also requires business associates as well as covered entities to comply with certain privacy and security requirements. Even though we provide for appropriate protections through our contracts with our third-party service providers and in certain cases assess their security controls, we still have limited oversight or control over their actions and practices. Our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to privacy and security incidents; security attacks and breaches; acts of vandalism or theft; computer viruses; coordinated attacks by activist entities; emerging cybersecurity risks; misplaced or lost data; programming and/or human errors; or other similar events. Emerging and advanced security threats, including coordinated attacks, require additional layers of security which may disrupt or impact efficiency of operations. Compliance with new privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements may result in increased operating costs, and may constrain our ability to manage our business model. For example, final HHS regulations released in January 2013 implementing the ARRA amendments to HIPAA may further restrict our ability to collect, disclose and use sensitive personal information and may impose additional compliance requirements on our business. In addition, HHS has announced that it will continue its audit program to assess HIPAA compliance efforts by covered entities. Although we are not aware of HHS plans to audit any of our covered entities, an audit resulting in findings or allegations of noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Noncompliance or findings of noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations or requirements, or the occurrence of any privacy or security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of sensitive personal information, whether by us or by one of our third-party service providers, could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business, including mandatory disclosure to the media, significant increases in the cost of managing and remediating privacy or security incidents and material fines, penalties and litigation awards, among other consequences, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Our businesses providing PBM services face regulatory and other risks and uncertainties associated with the PBM industry that may differ from the risks of our business of providing managed care and health insurance products. We provide PBM services through our OptumRx and UnitedHealthcare businesses. Each business is subject to federal and state anti-kickback and other laws that govern their relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, pharmacies, customers and consumers. OptumRx also conducts business as a mail order pharmacy and specialty pharmacy, which subjects it to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations. In addition, federal and state legislatures regularly consider new regulations for the industry that could materially and adversely affect current industry practices, including the receipt or disclosure of rebates from pharmaceutical companies, the development and use of formularies, and the use of average 21Table of Contentswholesale prices. See Item 1, “Business - Government Regulation” for a discussion of various federal and state laws and regulations governing our PBM businesses.Our PBM businesses would also be materially and adversely affected by an inability to contract on favorable terms with pharmaceutical manufacturers and other suppliers, and could face potential claims in connection with purported errors by our mail order or specialty pharmacies, including in connection with the risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceuticals and other health care products. Disruptions at any of our mail order or specialty pharmacies due to an accident or an event that is beyond our control could affect our ability to timely process and dispense prescriptions and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.In addition, our PBM businesses provide services to sponsors of health benefit plans that are subject to ERISA. The DOL, which is the agency that enforces ERISA, could assert that the fiduciary obligations imposed by the statute apply to some or all of the services provided by our PBM businesses even where our PBM businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations. In the event a court were to determine that fiduciary obligations apply to our PBM businesses in connection with services for which our PBM businesses are not contractually obligated to assume fiduciary obligations, we could be subject to claims for breaches of fiduciary obligations or entering into certain prohibited transactions.UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual recently began to transition pharmacy benefit management for approximately 12 million of its commercial members, including pharmacy claims adjudication and customer service, from Express Scripts’ subsidiary, Medco Health Solutions, Inc., to OptumRx. If our customers are not satisfied with our pharmacy benefit management services as a result of this transition, UnitedHealthcare Employer & Individual could face loss of business, which could adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.If we fail to compete effectively to maintain or increase our market share, including maintaining or increasing enrollments in businesses providing health benefits, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our businesses compete throughout the United States and face significant competition in all of the geographic markets in which we operate. We compete with other companies on the basis of many factors, including price of benefits offered and cost and risk of alternatives, location and choice of health care providers, quality of customer service, comprehensiveness of coverage offered, reputation for quality care, financial stability and diversity of product offerings. For our UnitedHealthcare businesses, competitors include Aetna Inc., Cigna Corporation, Coventry Health Care, Inc., Health Net, Inc., Humana Inc., Kaiser Permanente, WellPoint, Inc., numerous for-profit and not-for-profit organizations operating under licenses from the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, and, with respect to our Brazilian operations, several established competitors in Brazil, and other enterprises that serve more limited geographic areas. For our OptumRx businesses, competitors include CVS Caremark Corporation, Express Scripts, Inc. and Catamaran Corporation. Our OptumHealth and OptumInsight reportable segments also compete with a broad and diverse set of businesses.In particular markets, competitors may have greater capabilities, resources or market share; a more established reputation; superior supplier or health care professional arrangements; better existing business relationships; or other factors that give such competitors a competitive advantage. In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has occurred in the industries in which we operate, both among our competitors and suppliers (including hospitals, physician groups and other care professionals). Consolidation may make it more difficult for us to retain or increase our customer base, improve the terms on which we do business with our suppliers, or maintain or increase profitability. If we do not compete effectively in our markets, if we set rates too high or too low in highly competitive markets, if we do not design and price our products properly and competitively, if we are unable to innovate and deliver products and services that demonstrate value to our customers, if we do not provide a satisfactory level of services, if membership or demand for other services does not increase as we expect or declines, or if we lose accounts with more profitable products while retaining or increasing membership in accounts with less profitable products, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.If we fail to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with physicians, hospitals, and other health care providers, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We contract with physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and other health care providers for services. Our results of operations and prospects are substantially dependent on our continued ability to contract for these services at competitive prices. Failure to develop and maintain satisfactory relationships with health care providers, whether in-network or out-of-network, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows.In any particular market, physicians and health care providers could refuse to contract, demand higher payments, or take other actions that could result in higher medical costs, less desirable products for customers or difficulty meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements. In some markets, certain health care providers, particularly hospitals, physician/hospital 22Table of Contentsorganizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have significant market positions or near monopolies that could result in diminished bargaining power on our part. In addition, accountable care organizations (ACOs), practice management companies, which aggregate physician practices for administrative efficiency and marketing leverage, and other organizational structures that physicians, hospitals and other care providers choose may change the way that these providers interact with us and may change the competitive landscape. Such organizations or groups of physicians may compete directly with us, which may impact our relationships with these providers or affect the way that we price our products and estimate our costs and may require us to incur costs to change our operations, and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if these providers refuse to contract with us, use their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or place us at a competitive disadvantage, our ability to market products or to be profitable in those areas could be materially and adversely affected. We have capitation arrangements with some physicians, hospitals and other health care providers. Capitation arrangements limit our exposure to the risk of increasing medical costs, but expose us to risk related to the adequacy of the financial and medical care resources of the health care provider. To the extent that a capitated health care provider organization faces financial difficulties or otherwise is unable to perform its obligations under the capitation arrangement, we may be held responsible for unpaid health care claims that should have been the responsibility of the capitated health care provider and for which we have already paid the provider under the capitation arrangement. Further, payment or other disputes between a primary care provider and specialists with whom the primary care provider contracts can result in a disruption in the provision of services to our members or a reduction in the services available to our members. There can be no assurance that health care providers with whom we contract will properly manage the costs of services, maintain financial solvency or avoid disputes with other providers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the provision of services to our members and our operations. Some providers that render services to our members do not have contracts with us. In those cases, we do not have a pre-established understanding about the amount of compensation that is due to the provider for services rendered to our members. In some states, the amount of compensation due to these out-of-network providers is defined by law or regulation, but in most instances, it is either not defined or it is established by a standard that does not clearly specify dollar terms. In some instances, providers may believe that they are underpaid for their services and may either litigate or arbitrate their dispute with us or try to recover from our members the difference between what we have paid them and the amount they charged us. For example, we are involved in litigation with out-of-network providers, as described in more detail in “Litigation Matters” in Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements.” The success of certain Optum businesses, particularly Collaborative Care, depends on maintaining satisfactory physician relationships. The primary care physicians that practice medicine or contract with our affiliated physician organizations could terminate their provider contracts or otherwise become unable or unwilling to continue practicing medicine or contracting with us. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory relationships with primary care physicians, or to retain enrollees following the departure of a physician, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our affiliated physician organizations contract with health insurance and HMO competitors of UnitedHealthcare. If our affiliated physician organizations fail to maintain relationships with these health insurance or HMO companies, or to adequately price their contracts with these third party payers, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, physicians, hospitals, pharmaceutical benefit service providers, pharmaceutical manufacturers, and certain health care providers are customers of our Optum businesses. Given the importance of health care providers and other constituents to our businesses, failure to maintain satisfactory relationships with them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Because of the nature of our business, we are routinely subject to various litigation actions, which could damage our reputation and, if resolved unfavorably, could result in substantial penalties and/or monetary damages and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.Because of the nature of our business, we are routinely made party to a variety of legal actions related to, among other things, the design, management and delivery of our product and service offerings. These matters have included or could in the future include claims related to health care benefits coverage and payment (including disputes with enrollees, customers, and contracted and non-contracted physicians, hospitals and other health care professionals), tort (including claims related to the delivery of health care services, such as medical malpractice by health care practitioners who are employed by us, have contractual relationships with us, or serve as providers to our managed care networks), contract and labor disputes, tax claims and claims related to disclosure of certain business practices. We are also party to certain class action lawsuits brought by health care professional groups and consumers. In addition, we periodically acquire businesses or commence operations in jurisdictions outside of the United States, where contractual rights, tax positions and applicable regulations may be subject to interpretation or uncertainty to a greater degree than in the United States, and therefore subject to dispute by customers, government authorities or others. We are largely self-insured with regard to litigation risks. Although we maintain excess 23Table of Contentsliability insurance with outside insurance carriers for claims in excess of our self-insurance, certain types of damages, such as punitive damages in some circumstances, are not covered by insurance. We record liabilities for our estimates of the probable costs resulting from self-insured matters; however, it is possible that the level of actual losses will significantly exceed the liabilities recorded.  A description of significant legal actions in which we are currently involved is included in Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements.” We cannot predict the outcome of these actions with certainty, and we are incurring expenses in resolving these matters. The legal actions we face or may face in the future could further increase our cost of doing business and materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, certain legal actions could result in adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our ability to retain our current business or grow our market share in select markets and businesses.Any failure by us to successfully manage our strategic alliances or complete, manage or integrate acquisitions and other significant strategic transactions could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. As part of our business strategy, we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic alliances, joint ventures, and outsourcing transactions and often enter into agreements relating to such transactions. For example, we have a strategic alliance with AARP under which we provide AARP-branded Medicare Supplement insurance to AARP members and other AARP-branded products and services to both AARP members and non-members. If we fail to meet the needs of AARP and its members, including by developing additional products and services, pricing our products and services competitively or responding effectively to applicable federal and state regulatory changes, our alliance with the AARP could be damaged or terminated, which in turn could adversely impact our reputation, business and results of operations. Further, if we fail to identify and complete successfully transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. For acquisitions, success is also dependent upon efficiently integrating the acquired business into our existing operations. We are required to integrate these businesses into our internal control environment, which may present challenges that are different than those presented by organic growth and that may be difficult to manage. If we are unable to successfully integrate and grow these acquisitions and to realize contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our business, prospects, results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. As we continue to expand our business outside the United States, acquired foreign businesses, such as Amil, will present challenges that are different from those presented by acquisitions of domestic businesses, including adapting to new markets, business, labor and cultural practices and regulatory environments that are materially different from what we have experienced in our U.S. operations. For more information on the Amil acquisition, see Note 6 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements.” Adapting to these challenges could require us to devote significant senior management and other resources to the acquired businesses before we realize anticipated benefits or synergies from the acquired businesses. These challenges vary widely by country and may include political instability, government intervention, discriminatory regulation, and currency exchange controls or other restrictions that could prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which our acquired businesses operate or converting local currencies that we hold into U.S. dollars or other currencies. If we are unable to successfully manage our foreign acquisitions, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our shareholders’ equity from period to period, which could adversely affect our debt to debt-plus-equity ratio, and the future costs of or revenues and cash flows from our international operations, and any measures we may implement to reduce the effect of volatile currencies may be costly or ineffective.   Sales of our products and services are dependent on our ability to attract, retain and provide support to a network of independent producers and consultants. Our products are sold in part through independent producers and consultants who assist in the production and servicing of business. We typically do not have long-term contracts with our producers and consultants, who generally are not exclusive to us and who typically also recommend and/or market health care products and services of our competitors. As a result, we must compete intensely for their services and allegiance. Our sales would be materially and adversely affected if we were unable to attract or retain independent producers and consultants or if we do not adequately provide support, training and education to them regarding our product portfolio, or if our sales strategy is not appropriately aligned across distribution channels. Because producer commissions are included as administrative expenses under the medical loss ratio requirements of the Health Reform Legislation, these expenses will be under the same cost reduction pressures as other administrative costs. Our 24Table of Contentsrelationships with producers could be materially and adversely impacted by changes in our business practices and the nature of our relationships to address these pressures, including potential reductions in commissions. In addition, there have been a number of investigations regarding the marketing practices of producers selling health care products and the payments they receive. These have resulted in enforcement actions against companies in our industry and producers marketing and selling these companies’ products. These investigations and enforcement actions could result in penalties and the imposition of corrective action plans, which could materially and adversely impact our ability to market our products.Unfavorable economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. Unfavorable economic conditions may impact demand for certain of our products and services. For example, high unemployment rates have caused and could continue to cause lower enrollment or lower rates of renewal in our employer group plans and our non-employer individual plans. Unfavorable economic conditions have also caused and could continue to cause employers to stop offering certain health care coverage as an employee benefit or elect to offer this coverage on a voluntary, employee-funded basis as a means to reduce their operating costs. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact our ability to increase premiums or result in the cancellation by certain customers of our products and services. All of these could lead to a decrease in our membership levels and premium and fee revenues and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. During a prolonged unfavorable economic environment, state and federal budgets could be materially and adversely affected, resulting in reduced reimbursements or payments in our federal and state government health care coverage programs, including Medicare, Medicaid and CHIP. A reduction in state Medicaid reimbursement rates could be implemented retrospectively to payments already negotiated and/or received from the government and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, the state and federal budgetary pressures could cause the government to impose new or a higher level of taxes or assessments for our commercial programs, such as premium taxes on insurance companies and health maintenance organizations and surcharges or fees on select fee-for-service and capitated medical claims, and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, a prolonged unfavorable economic environment could adversely impact the financial position of hospitals and other care providers, which could materially and adversely affect our contracted rates with these parties and increase our medical costs or materially and adversely affect their ability to purchase our service offerings. Further, unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the customers of our Optum businesses, including health plans, HMOs, hospitals, care providers, employers and others, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect Optum’s financial results.Our investment portfolio may suffer losses, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Market fluctuations could impair our profitability and capital position. Volatility in interest rates affects our interest income and the market value of our investments in debt securities of varying maturities, which comprise the vast majority of the fair value of our investments as of December 31, 2012. Relatively low interest rates on investments, such as those experienced during recent years, have adversely impacted our investment income, and a prolonged low interest rate environment could further adversely affect our investment income. In addition, a delay in payment of principal and/or interest by issuers, or defaults by issuers (primarily from investments in corporate and municipal bonds), could reduce our net investment income and we may be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability and shareholders’ equity. We also allocate a small proportion of our portfolio to equity investments, which are subject to greater volatility than fixed income investments. General economic conditions, stock market conditions, and many other factors beyond our control can materially and adversely affect the value of our equity investments and may result in investment losses. There can be no assurance that our investments will produce total positive returns or that we will not sell investments at prices that are less than their carrying values. Changes in the value of our investment assets, as a result of interest rate fluctuations, changes in issuer financial conditions, illiquidity or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity. In addition, if it became necessary for us to liquidate our investment portfolio on an accelerated basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the capital position of regulated subsidiaries. If the value of our intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations, shareholders’ equity and debt ratings could be materially and adversely affected. Goodwill and other intangible assets were $36.0 billion as of December 31, 2012, representing 44% of our total consolidated assets. We periodically evaluate our goodwill and other intangible assets to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case a charge to earnings may be necessary. For example, the manner in or the extent to which the Health Reform Legislation is implemented may impact our ability to maintain the value of our goodwill and other 25Table of Contentsintangible assets in our business. Similarly, the value of our goodwill may be materially and adversely impacted if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions. In addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Any future evaluations requiring an impairment of our goodwill and other intangible assets could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. A material decrease in shareholders’ equity could, in turn, adversely impact our debt ratings or potentially impact our compliance with our debt covenants. If we fail to properly maintain the integrity or availability of our data or to strategically implement new or upgrade or consolidate existing information systems, or if our technology products do not operate as intended, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to adequately price our products and services, to provide effective service to our customers in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, and to accurately report our results of operations depends on the integrity of the data in our information systems. As a result of technology initiatives and recently enacted regulations, changes in our system platforms and integration of new business acquisitions, we periodically consolidate, integrate, upgrade and expand our information systems capabilities. Our information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain, protect and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving systems and regulatory standards, emerging cybersecurity risks and threats, and changing customer patterns. If the information we rely upon to run our businesses was found to be inaccurate or unreliable or if we fail to maintain or protect our information systems and data integrity effectively, we could lose existing customers, have difficulty attracting new customers, have problems in determining medical cost estimates and establishing appropriate pricing, have difficulty preventing, detecting and controlling fraud, have disputes with customers, physicians and other health care professionals, have regulatory sanctions or penalties imposed, have increases in operating expenses or suffer other adverse consequences. There can be no assurance that our process of consolidating the number of systems we operate, upgrading and expanding our information systems capabilities, protecting our systems against cybersecurity risks and threats, enhancing our systems and developing new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology will be successful or that additional systems issues will not arise in the future. Failure to protect, consolidate and integrate our systems successfully could result in higher than expected costs and diversion of management’s time and energy, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Certain of our businesses sell and install hardware and software products, and these products may contain unexpected design defects or may encounter unexpected complications during installation or when used with other technologies utilized by the customer. Connectivity among competing technologies is becoming increasingly important in the health care industry. A failure of our technology products to operate as intended and in a seamless fashion with other products could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. In addition, uncertain and rapidly evolving U.S. federal and state, non-U.S. and international laws and regulations related to the health information technology market may present compliance challenges and could materially and adversely affect the configuration of our information systems and platforms, and our ability to compete in this market.If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights to our databases and related products, our ability to market our knowledge and information-related businesses could be hindered and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our agreements with customers, confidentiality agreements with employees, and our trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and patents to protect our proprietary rights. These legal protections and precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary information. In addition, substantial litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the software industry, and we expect software products to be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in this industry segment grows. Such litigation and misappropriation of our proprietary information could hinder our ability to market and sell products and services and our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to obtain funds from some of our subsidiaries is restricted and if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Because we operate as a holding company, we are dependent upon dividends and administrative expense reimbursements from some of our subsidiaries to fund our obligations. Many of these subsidiaries are regulated by departments of insurance. We are also required by law or regulation to maintain specific prescribed minimum amounts of capital in these subsidiaries. The levels of capitalization required depend primarily upon the volume of premium revenues generated by the applicable subsidiary. A significant increase in premium volume will require additional capitalization from us. In most states, we are required to seek prior approval by these state regulatory authorities before we transfer money or pay dividends from these subsidiaries that 26Table of Contentsexceed specified amounts. An inability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends to their parent companies in the desired amounts or at the time of our choosing could adversely affect our ability to reinvest in our business through capital expenditures or business acquisitions, as well as our ability to maintain our corporate quarterly dividend payment cycle, repurchase shares of our common stock and repay our debt. If we are unable to obtain sufficient funds from our subsidiaries to fund our obligations, our results of operations and financial position could be materially and adversely affected. Downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims paying ability, financial strength, and credit ratings by Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. We believe our claims paying ability and financial strength ratings are important factors in marketing our products to certain of our customers. Our credit ratings impact both the cost and availability of future borrowings. Each of the credit rating agencies reviews its ratings periodically and there can be no assurance that current credit ratings will be maintained in the future. Our ratings reflect each credit rating agency’s opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to policyholders. Downgrades in our credit ratings, should they occur, may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows.ITEM 1B