, "Critical Accounting Estimates" and the discussion of segment operating results included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 5 and 12 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8. InvestmentsInvestment activities are an integral part of our business, and profitability is significantly affected by investment results.  We segment our invested assets into portfolios that support our various product lines.  Generally, our investment strategy for our portfolios is to match the effective asset cash flows and durations with related expected liability cash flows and durations to consistently meet the liability funding requirements of our businesses.  We seek to earn investment income while assuming credit risk in a prudent and selective manner, subject to constraints of quality, liquidity, diversification, and regulatory considerations.  Our overall investment philosophy is to invest in a portfolio of high quality assets that provide investment returns consistent with that assumed in the pricing of our insurance products.  Assets are invested predominately in fixed maturity securities.  Changes in interest rates may affect the amount and timing of cash flows.  We actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. We may redistribute investments between our different lines of business, when necessary, to adjust the cash flow and/or duration of the asset portfolios to better match the cash flow and duration of the liability portfolios.  Asset and liability portfolio modeling is updated on a quarterly basis and is used as part of the overall interest rate risk management strategy.  Cash flows from the in-force asset and liability portfolios are projected at current interest rate levels and also at levels reflecting an increase and a decrease in interest rates to obtain a range of projected cash flows under the different interest rate scenarios.  These results enable us to assess the impact of projected changes in cash flows and duration resulting from potential changes in interest rates.  Testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate scenarios enables us to choose the most appropriate investment strategy as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes.  We use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments for managing interest rate risk and the risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities.  We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.  10Refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in  and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Ratings" contained herein in Item 7.  A rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.Competition There is intense competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell.  We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are integrated product choices, price, quality of customer service and claims management, financial strength, and claims-paying ratings.  In the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the United States with a limited number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products.  Our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the United States.  Some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings.  Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. 11In the United Kingdom, we compete for the individual and group products we sell with a number of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers.  These providers have been aggressively trying to maintain market share in a difficult economic environment, characterized by very low interest rates and expense pressures on employers and individuals.  However, current penetration levels indicate that there is still significant upside growth potential in the United Kingdom for the types of products we offer.  All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market.  There is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us.  The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.We must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products.  Strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers.  We compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation.  Sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers.For further discussion, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in  and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" contained herein in Item 7.      Insurance Holding Company RegulationWe are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), which currently include Maine, Massachusetts, Tennessee, South Carolina, New York, Vermont, and California.  These laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including intercompany transactions.  Transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator.In addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our Company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries.  See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in .Geographic AreasSegment operating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our U.K. operations totaled $884.6 million, $845.8 million, and $828.2 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  These amounts were approximately 8.6 percent, 8.3 percent, and 8.2 percent of consolidated segment operating revenue for 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  As of December 31, 2011, total assets and liabilities for our U.K. operations were $3.7 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively, or approximately 6.1 percent and 5.0 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities, respectively.  Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of our U.K. operations will impact our reported operating results.  See "Risk Factors" contained herein in  regarding regulatory investigations concerning one or more aspects of broker compensation and related matters, as well as legal proceedings which have previously and may in the future result in court rulings and jury verdicts against us.  Decisions such as exiting a line of business or implementing premium rate increases may result in negative publicity and unfavorable regulatory responses.  Our reliance on independent contractors and brokers to distribute many of our products exposes our reputation to the possibility of being damaged by sales practices over which we have no means of direct control.  Depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business.  Damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital.  See "Regulation" contained herein in Item 1 and Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings.Volatility in long-term interest rates or the rate of return on pension plan assets may have a negative effect on the funded status of our pension plans and/or increase our pension costs.   The rate of return on pension plan assets is determined based on the fair value of the plan assets at the beginning and end of the measurement period.  Declines in long-term interest rates or the fair value of our plan assets may result in a decrease in the funded status of our pension plans and/or increased pension costs, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  Conversely, a rise in interest rates could unfavorably impact the fair value of both the fixed income and equity investments in our pension plans.  See "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 8 of the "Notes to Consolidated  Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.We provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our profitability or cash flows.  Disability InsuranceDisability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors.  Changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products.  Competition in disability insurance has also been markedly affected by the growth of social security, workers' compensation, and other governmental programs in the workplace.  21Both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance.  Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence.  Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses.  Claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies.  The relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims.  Within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates.  However, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices.  In addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time. The pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ between product classes.  Our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business.  Guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market.  Long-term Care InsuranceLong-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors.  Because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products.  This creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves.  Long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval which can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all.  We monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends.  Changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves.  Mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence.  Due to the long duration of the product, we may be unable to purchase appropriate assets with cash flows and durations such that the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities.  Sustained periods of low interest rates could result in lower than expected profitability and increases in reserves.  Group Life InsuranceGroup life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates.  Claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks and natural disasters, which may also affect the availability of reinsurance coverage.  There are a series of lawsuits pending in federal courts challenging the use of retained asset accounts in group life plans that are governed by ERISA.  If these challenges are upheld by the courts, our ability to use such accounts for the beneficiaries of these plans may be adversely affected.  Voluntary ProductsVoluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics.  Our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest-sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate.  It is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate.  The non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. See "Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits" contained herein in Item 1 and "Executive Summary" and "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion. 22An assessment by a governing tax authority may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws in a multitude of jurisdictions, both domestic and foreign.  The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.We may be required to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax asset.  Factors in our ability to realize a tax benefit from our deferred income tax asset include the performance of our businesses and our ability to generate realized investment gains.  If we determine that all or a portion of the deferred income tax asset will not result in a future tax benefit, a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income or other comprehensive income.  Such charges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  The likelihood of recording a valuation allowance increases during periods of economic downturn.Our overall risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business.We have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, capital and liquidity, and reputational risks.  However, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for managing risk may not fully predict future exposures.  See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" contained herein in Item 7A for further information about our risk management program. Litigation is common in our businesses and may result in material financial losses and/or harm to our reputation.  Unum Group and its subsidiaries are defendants in a number of lawsuits.  The outcome of these lawsuits is uncertain.  An estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  An adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings.Unum Group and its insurance subsidiaries, as part of their normal operations in managing claims, are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits.  Typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims.  For our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course.  We expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition.  Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  We are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses. See Note 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings.United Kingdom currency translation risk could materially impact reported operating results. The functional currency of our U.K. operations is the British pound sterling.  Fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our financial results.  In periods when the pound weakens, translating pounds into dollars decreases current period results relative to the prior period.  In periods when the pound strengthens, translating pounds into dollars increases current period results in relation to the prior period.  However, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. Except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars.  As a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the U.K. 23We are subject to various operational risks resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes or from external events which may damage our market position and reputation and/or adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. We face challenges and risks associated with the development, sale, and retention of product offerings that meet the needs of our targeted markets; maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline; continued effective claim management and customer service performance; ongoing expense management; delivering effective technology solutions; continued effective controls over our asset management and derivative trading activities; continued execution of our capital management strategy; and the successful implementation of operational improvements and strategic growth initiatives.  Failure to successfully manage our operational risks may adversely affect our competitiveness, profitability, or financial condition.Our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity.  If we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital. A change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations.  Deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows.  Without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business may suffer.  If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us.  In the near term, we expect that our need for external financing is small, but changes in our business could increase our need.  If our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements.  Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus, as measured by state insurance regulations, is considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength.  Failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by state regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies.  Regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this Item 1A may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries.  Need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to the holding company and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and meet our debt and other payment obligations.  Obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be complicated in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty.  The markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers.  The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects.  Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us.  Raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in Unum Group. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion.Our subsidiaries may be restricted from paying dividends to our holding companies which could adversely impact our ability to pay dividends and other obligations.Unum Group and certain of its subsidiaries rely on dividends from our insurance and non-insurance company subsidiaries to make dividend payments on our common stock, meet debt payment obligations, and pay our other obligations.  Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates.  The level of statutory earnings and capital in our insurance subsidiaries could impact their ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to our holding companies, which could impair our ability to pay our dividends or meet our debt and other payment obligations.  See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 14 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for a discussion of the existing regulatory limitations on dividends.24Reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.As part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses.  Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection.  Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations.  Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue.  The collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers.  We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis.  The insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA), and goodwill.  We may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  We defer certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and expense these costs over the life of the related policies.  These costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses.  VOBA represents the present value of future profits recorded in connection with the acquisition of a block of insurance policies.  DAC and VOBA are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies.  Recoverability testing for DAC and VOBA is performed on an annual basis.  Insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts.  If recoverability testing indicates that either DAC and/or VOBA are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense.  Accounting standard updates which we will be required to adopt in our first quarter 2012 filing will result in a decrease to our existing DAC asset.  See "Executive Summary" and "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Notes 1, 5, and 12 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.  Goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors.  In accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below.  In addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. A cyber security incident that bypasses our information technology security systems may lead to a material disruption of our information technology systems and/or the loss of information, resulting in adverse impacts to our profitability, our business, and our reputation. Maintaining the security systems to protect the systems and data is critical to our reputation.  We seek to prevent, detect, and investigate security incidents to prevent their recurrence but in some cases we may be unaware of emerging threats and the magnitude of their effects.  The theft, destruction, or unauthorized use of confidential data could cause, among other things, operational disruption and reputational harm.  We could suffer operational delays resulting from the disruption of our information technology systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities.  Negative publicity regarding a security breach could result in damage to our competitive position and our reputation with our customers and business partners.  We maintain cyber liability insurance that provides coverage for network security, privacy liability, technology errors and omissions, media liability, first party network business interruption, electronic restoration, and cyber extortion.  This coverage also provides sub-limits for credit monitoring, notification costs, regulatory expense, and investigative expense.  Our insurance may not provide adequate loss coverage in all circumstances.Extreme events, including political instability or terrorism, can affect the economy in general, our industry, and us specifically.  Events such as epidemics, pandemics, political instability, terrorist attacks, natural disasters, or other extreme events may materially adversely affect our business, the level of claims, or our results of operations, and in the event of extreme circumstances, our financial condition or viability.  Beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us.  We purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism.  The continued threat of terrorism could result in increased 25reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices.  In the event of nuclear or bioterrorism attacks, epidemics, or other extreme events, we could face significant costs depending on the government's actions and the responsiveness of public agencies and other insurers.  In addition, we may also be adversely affected if we do not maintain adequate procedures to ensure disaster recovery and business continuity for our facilities and operations in the event of such occurrences.  See "Reinsurance" contained herein in Item 1 for further discussion.We also face other risks that may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition, including but not limited to:•A significant deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting;•Any requirement to restate financial results due to inappropriate application of accounting principles;•A guaranty fund assessment by a governing regulatory body to cover the proportional cost of an insolvent or failed insurer;•Failure to adequately plan for succession of our senior management and other key executives; and•Failure of our processes to prevent and detect fraud and/or unethical conduct of employees.ITEM 1B