, "Critical Accounting Estimates" and the discussion of segment operating results included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, and Notes 1 and 6 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8. Investments Investment activities are an integral part of our business, and profitability is significantly affected by investment results.  We segment our invested assets into portfolios that support our various product lines.  Generally, our investment strategy for our portfolios is to match the effective asset cash flows and durations with related expected liability cash flows and durations to consistently meet the liability funding requirements of our businesses.  We seek to earn investment income while assuming credit risk in a prudent and selective manner, subject to constraints of quality, liquidity, diversification, and regulatory considerations.  Our overall investment philosophy is to invest in a portfolio of high quality assets that provide investment returns consistent with that assumed in the pricing of our insurance products.  Assets are invested predominately in fixed maturity securities.  Changes in interest rates may affect the amount and timing of cash flows.  We actively manage our asset and liability cash flow match and our asset and liability duration match to limit interest rate risk. We may redistribute investments among our different lines of business, when necessary, to adjust the cash flow and/or duration of the asset portfolios to better match the cash flow and duration of the liability portfolios.  Asset and liability portfolio modeling is updated on a quarterly basis and is used as part of the overall interest rate risk management strategy.  Cash flows from the in-force asset and liability portfolios are projected at current interest rate levels and also at levels reflecting an increase and a decrease in interest rates to obtain a range of projected cash flows under the different interest rate scenarios.  These results enable us to assess the impact of projected changes in cash flows and duration resulting from potential changes in interest rates.  Testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate scenarios enables us to choose what we believe to be the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to limit the risk of disadvantageous outcomes.  Although we test the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate scenarios as part of our modeling, the majority of our liabilities related to insurance contracts are not interest rate sensitive, and we therefore have minimal exposure to policy withdrawal risk.  Our determination of investment strategy relies on long-term measures such as reserve adequacy analysis and the relationship between the portfolio yields supporting our various product lines and the aggregate discount rate assumptions embedded in the reserves.  We also use this analysis in determining hedging strategies and utilizing derivative financial instruments for managing interest rate risk and  10the risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities.  We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.  Refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in .Competition There is significant competition among insurance companies for the types of products we sell.  We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting our business are price, quality of customer service and claims management, integrated product choices, financial strength ratings, and claims-paying ratings.  In the individual and group disability markets, we compete in the United States with a number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering specialty products.  Our principal competitors for our other products, including group life and the product offerings sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction, include the largest insurance companies in the United States.  Some of these companies have more competitive pricing or have higher claims-paying ratings.  Some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. In the United Kingdom, we compete for the individual and group products we sell with a mix of large internationally recognized providers and strong local carriers.  We have observed some of these providers aggressively trying to maintain or grow market share in a difficult economic environment, characterized by very low interest rates and expense pressures on employers and individuals.  We believe the need for the types of products we offer is significant.  In both the United States and the United Kingdom, individuals and families often live paycheck to paycheck with a considerable chance of being out of work.  Pressure is also mounting on governments as to the sustainability of public assistance.  Based on current penetration levels, we believe there is substantial upside growth potential. 11All areas of the employee benefits markets are highly competitive due to the yearly renewable term nature of the group products and the large number of insurance companies offering products in this market.  There is a risk that purchasers of employee benefits products may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors in lieu of renewing coverage with us.  The effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future.We must attract and retain independent agents and brokers to actively market our products.  Strong competition exists among insurers for agents and brokers.  We compete with other insurers for sales agents and brokers primarily on the basis of our product offerings, financial strength, support services, and compensation.  Sales of our products could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents and brokers.For further discussion, refer to "Risk Factors" contained herein in  and "Liquidity and Capital Resources" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 15 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.       13Insurance Holding Company RegulationWe and our U.S. insurance subsidiaries (excluding captive insurers) are subject to regulation under the insurance holding company laws in the states in which they are domiciled (or deemed to be commercially domiciled), which currently include Maine, Massachusetts, Tennessee, South Carolina, New York, and California.  These laws generally require each insurance company that is domiciled in the state and a member of an insurance holding company system to register with the insurance department of that state and to furnish at least annually financial and other information about the operations of companies within the holding company system, including information concerning capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition, and certain intercompany transactions.  Transactions between an insurer and affiliates in the holding company system generally must be fair and reasonable and, if material, require prior notice and approval by the domiciliary insurance regulator.In addition, such laws and regulations restrict the amount of dividends that may be paid by our insurance subsidiaries to their respective shareholders, including our Company and certain of our intermediate holding company subsidiaries.  See further discussion in "Risk Factors" contained herein in .Geographic AreasOperating revenue, which excludes net realized investment gains and losses, for our Unum UK segment was approximately 7 percent of our consolidated operating revenue for the years 2014 and 2013 and approximately 8 percent for 2012.  As of December 31, 2014, total assets and total liabilities for our Unum UK segment each equaled approximately 6 percent of consolidated assets and liabilities.  Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency of our Unum UK segment will impact our reported operating results.  See "Risk Factors" contained herein in  regarding regulatory investigations, legal proceedings, and cyber or other information security incidents. In addition, as an insurance company, we are paid to accept certain risks.  Those who conduct our business, including executive officers and members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, and to some extent, independent agents and brokers, do so in part by making decisions that involve exposing us to risk.  These include decisions such as maintaining effective underwriting and pricing discipline, maintaining effective claim management and customer service performance, managing our investment portfolio and derivatives trading activities, delivering effective technology solutions, complying with established sales practices, executing our capital management strategy, exiting a line of business and/or pursuing strategic growth initiatives, and other decisions.  Although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks or unintentionally failing to comply with internal policies and practices such that errors occur, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures will be effective.  If our employees and business associates take excessive risks and/or fail to comply with internal policies and practices, the impact of those events may damage our market position and reputation. Depending on the severity of the damage to our reputation, we may be unable to effectively compete for new products or retain our existing business, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.  Damage to our reputation may also hinder our ability to raise new capital and/or increase our cost of capital.  See "Regulation" contained herein in Item 1 and Note 14 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for additional information on regulatory matters and legal proceedings.We provide a broad array of disability, long-term care, group life, and voluntary insurance products that are affected by many factors, and changes in any of those factors may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  Disability InsuranceDisability insurance may be affected by a number of social, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors.  Changes in societal attitudes, such as work ethic, motivation, or stability, can significantly affect the demand for and underwriting results from disability products.    Both economic and societal factors can affect claim incidence and recoveries for disability insurance.  Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may be influenced by, among other factors, the rate of unemployment and consumer confidence.  Claim incidence and claim recovery rates may also be influenced by the emergence of new infectious diseases or illnesses.  Claim durations may be extended by medical improvements which could extend life expectancies.  The relationship between these and other factors and overall incidence is very complex and will vary due to contract design features and the degree of expertise within the insuring organization to price, underwrite, and adjudicate the claims.  Within the group disability market, pricing and renewal actions can be taken to react to higher claim rates.  However, these actions take time to implement, and there is a risk that the market will not sustain increased prices.  In addition, changes in economic and external conditions may not manifest themselves in claims experience for an extended period of time.  The pricing actions available in the individual disability market differ among product classes.  Our individual noncancelable disability policies, in which the policy is guaranteed to be renewable through the life of the policy at a fixed premium, do not permit us to adjust premiums on our in-force business.  Guaranteed renewable contracts that are not noncancelable can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as in the group disability market.  Long-term Care InsuranceLong-term care insurance can be affected by a number of demographic, medical, economic, governmental, competitive, and other factors.  Because long-term care insurance is a relatively new product for the insurance industry and is long-duration in nature, there is not as much historical data as is available for our other products.  This creates a level of uncertainty in properly pricing the product and using appropriate assumptions when establishing reserves.  Long-term care insurance is guaranteed renewable and can be re-priced to reflect adverse experience, but the re-pricing is subject to regulatory approval by our states of  23domicile and may also be subject to approval by jurisdictions in which our policyholders reside.  The rate approval process can affect the length of time in which the re-pricing can be implemented, if at all, and the rate increases ultimately approved may be favorable or unfavorable relative to assumptions used to establish our reserves.  We monitor our own experience and industry studies concerning morbidity, mortality, and policyholder terminations to understand emerging trends.  Changes in actual experience relative to our expectations may adversely affect our profitability and reserves.  Mortality continues to improve for the general population, and life expectancy has increased, which could lengthen the time a claimant receives long-term care benefits and may subject more policyholders to advanced aging and an associated increase in claims incidence.  Medical advances may continue to have an impact on claim incidence and duration, both favorable and unfavorable.  Due to the long duration of the product, the timing and/or amount of our investment cash flows may not match those of our maturing liabilities.  Sustained periods of low or declining interest rates could result in increases in reserves and adversely affect our results of operations.  Group Life InsuranceGroup life insurance may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the amount of insurance employees may elect voluntarily, our risk selection process, our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics, the geographical concentration of employees, and mortality rates.  Claim incidence may also be influenced by unexpected catastrophic events such as terrorist attacks, natural disasters, and pandemic health events, which may also affect the cost of and availability of reinsurance coverage.  There are a series of lawsuits challenging the use of retained asset accounts in group life plans that are governed by ERISA.  If these challenges are upheld by the courts, our ability to use such accounts for the beneficiaries of these plans may be adversely affected.  Voluntary ProductsVoluntary products sold in the workplace may be affected by the characteristics of the employees insured, the level of employee participation and the amount of insurance the employees elect, our risk selection process, and our ability to retain employer groups with favorable risk characteristics.  Our voluntary life insurance products generally include interest-sensitive forms of insurance which contain a guaranteed minimum interest crediting rate.  It is possible that our investment returns could be lower than the guaranteed crediting rate.  The non-life contracts are guaranteed renewable and can be repriced to reflect adverse experience, but rate changes cannot be implemented as quickly as for group disability and group life products. See "Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits" contained herein in Item 1 and "Executive Summary" and "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 for further discussion. Our risk management program may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business.We have devoted significant resources to develop our enterprise risk management program, which has the objective of managing our strategic, market, credit, insurance, operations, and reputational risks.  However, our program may not be comprehensive, and our methods for monitoring and managing risk may not fully predict or mitigate future exposures.  See "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" contained herein in Item 7A for further information about our risk management program. Litigation and contingencies are common in our businesses and may result in financial losses and/or harm to our reputation.  We are, and in the future may be, defendants in a number of litigation matters, and the outcome of this litigation is uncertain.  Some of these proceedings have been brought on behalf of various alleged classes of complainants.  Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages.  An estimated loss is accrued when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  An adverse outcome in one or more of these actions may, depending on the nature, scope and amount of the ruling, materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition, encourage other litigation, and limit our ability to write new business, particularly if the adverse outcomes negatively impact certain of our ratings.As part of our normal operations in managing claims, we are engaged in claim litigation where disputes arise as a result of a denial or termination of benefits.  Typically those lawsuits are filed on behalf of a single claimant or policyholder, and in some of these individual actions punitive damages are sought, such as claims alleging bad faith in the handling of insurance claims.  For  24our general claim litigation, we maintain reserves based on experience to satisfy judgments and settlements in the normal course.  We expect that the ultimate liability, if any, with respect to general claim litigation, after consideration of the reserves maintained, will not be material to our financial condition.  Nevertheless, given the inherent unpredictability of litigation, it is possible that an adverse outcome in certain claim litigation involving punitive damages may, from time to time, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  We are unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible punitive losses.See "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Note 14 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for additional information on legal proceedings.Reinsurance may not be available or affordable, or reinsurers may be unwilling or unable to meet their obligations under our reinsurance contracts, which may adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.As part of our overall risk management and capital management strategies, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various businesses.  Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance.  Any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and may impact the level of capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our results of operations.  Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may be unable to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which may adversely affect our ability to write future business, result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue, and increase our capital requirements.  The collectibility of our reinsurance recoverable is primarily a function of the solvency of the individual reinsurers.  We cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis.  The insolvency of a reinsurer or the inability or unwillingness of a reinsurer to comply with the terms of a reinsurance contract may have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. The effectiveness of our hedging programs may be affected by changes in the economic environment, changes in interest rates, capital market volatility, non-performance by our counterparties, changes in the level of required collateral, or regulation, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. We use derivative financial instruments to help us manage certain risks related to our business operations, primarily interest rate risk, risk related to matching duration for our assets and liabilities, and foreign currency risk.  Factors associated with derivative financial instruments could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  Ineffectiveness of our hedges due to changes in expected future events, such as the risk created by uncertainty in the economic environment or if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  Capital market turmoil may result in an increase in the risk of non-performance by our counterparties, many of which are financial institutions.  Non-performance by our counterparties may force us to unwind hedges, and we may be unable to replace the hedge, thereby leaving the risk unhedged.  Under the terms of our hedging contracts, we are required to post collateral and to maintain a certain level of collateral, which may adversely affect our liquidity and could subject us to the credit risk of the counterparty to the extent it holds such collateral.  Changes in regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to execute hedging strategies due to the increased economic cost of derivatives, primarily as a result of more restrictive collateral requirements.  Changes in accounting standards may materially affect our financial statements.Our financial statements are subject to the application of generally accepted accounting principles, in both the United States and the United Kingdom, which are periodically revised and/or expanded.  Accordingly, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the U.K. Accounting Standards Board (ASB), and the NAIC.  Accounting standards issued by the FASB and ASB may be influenced by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).  These authoritative bodies have several ongoing projects regarding accounting standards that will likely be issued in the near future.  Future accounting standards we adopt will change current accounting and disclosure requirements applicable to our financial statements.  Such changes may have a material effect on our reported results of operations or financial condition.  25Currency translation could materially impact our reported operating results.The functional currency of our U.K. operations is the British pound sterling.  Fluctuations in the pound to dollar exchange rate have an effect on our reported financial results.  However, it is important to distinguish between translating and converting foreign currency. Except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert pounds into dollars.  As a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting item and not a reflection of operations or profitability in the U.K. Our ability to finance our ongoing operations may not always be possible solely from internal sources of capital and liquidity.  If we need to seek external capital, there is the risk that adverse market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital or our cost of capital.A change in demand for our insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims could negatively impact our cash flows from operations.  Deterioration in the credit market, which could delay our ability to sell our positions in certain of our fixed maturity securities in a timely manner, could also negatively impact our cash flows.  Regulatory changes such as those discussed herein in this Item 1A may impose higher capital or reserve requirements on our insurance subsidiaries, increase collateral requirements for certain of our derivatives transactions, and/or implement other requirements which could unfavorably affect our liquidity.  Without sufficient liquidity, our ability to maintain and grow our operations would be limited.  If our internal sources of liquidity prove to be insufficient, we may be unable to successfully obtain additional financing and capital on favorable terms, or at all, which may adversely affect us.  If our financial results are unfavorable, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our credit ratings or satisfy regulatory requirements.  Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is considered important not only by us but by insurance regulatory authorities in the U.S., the PRA in the U.K., and the rating agencies that rate insurers' claims-paying abilities and financial strength.  Failure to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny, action by regulatory authorities, or a downgrade by the rating agencies.  Need for additional capital may limit a subsidiary's ability to distribute funds to our holding companies.Obtaining financing for even a small amount of capital could be challenging in unfavorable market conditions and during periods of economic uncertainty.  The markets may exert downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers.  The availability of financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our financial prospects.  Similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us.  Raising capital in unfavorable market conditions could increase our interest expense or negatively impact our shareholders through increased dilution of their common stock in Unum Group. We rely on our credit facility as a potential source of liquidity.  Our right to borrow funds under this facility is subject to financial covenants, negative covenants, and events of default.  Our ability to borrow under this facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders to provide funds.  Our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments would restrict our ability to access this facility when needed, with a resulting adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Notes 8 and 15 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.As a holding company, Unum Group depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it so that it can meet its obligations and pay dividends.Unum Group is a holding company for insurance and other subsidiaries and has no significant operations of its own.  Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to insurance laws and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends and on other transfers of funds or other assets to affiliates, including to Unum Group.  The level of earnings and capital in our subsidiaries, as well as business conditions and rating agency considerations, could impact our insurance and other subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends or to make other transfers of funds to Unum Group, which could impair our ability to pay dividends to Unum Group's common stockholders, meet our debt and other payment obligations, and/or repurchase shares of Unum Group's common stock. 26See "Regulation" contained herein in Item 1,"Liquidity and Capital Resources" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7, and Note 15 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion.We have assets which may not be fully recoverable or realizable, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition.If our business does not perform well or as initially anticipated in our assumptions, we may be required to accelerate amortization or recognize an impairment loss on intangible assets or long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset. We have intangible assets such as deferred acquisition costs (DAC), value of business acquired (VOBA), and goodwill.  DAC and VOBA are amortized based primarily upon expected future premium income of the related insurance policies.  Recoverability testing for DAC and VOBA is performed on an annual basis.  Insurance contracts are grouped on a basis consistent with our manner of acquiring, servicing, and measuring profitability of the contracts.  If recoverability testing indicates that either DAC and/or VOBA are not recoverable, the deficiency is charged to expense.   Goodwill is not amortized, but on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary, we review the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, considering in that review the financial performance and other relevant factors.  In accordance with accounting guidance, we test for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below.  In addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition would cause us to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. Long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate and information technology software, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we may be unable to recover the carrying amount.  We assess our deferred tax assets to determine if they are realizable.  Factors in our determination include the performance of the business, including the ability to generate future taxable income.  If based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, a valuation allowance is established with a corresponding charge to net income. Charges such as accelerated amortization, impairment losses, or the establishment of valuation allowances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. See "Executive Summary" and "Critical Accounting Estimates" included in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" contained herein in Item 7 and Notes 1, 7, and 13 of the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" contained herein in Item 8.  The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of certain assets in our investment portfolio, disrupt our operations, or result in higher claim costs. The continued threat of terrorism, both within the U.S. and abroad, ongoing military actions, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in the global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, business disruption, and reduced economic activity.  Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism.  Terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the U.S. or abroad.  In addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated.  Beyond obtaining insurance coverage for our facilities, there are few, if any, commercial options through which to transfer the exposure from extreme events away from us.  We purchase reinsurance protection against catastrophic disaster events, including terrorism.  The continued threat of terrorism could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices.  See "Reinsurance" contained herein in Item 1 for further discussion. 27ITEM 1B