—Risk Factors—We may be adversely affected by the outcome of litigation or investigations, despite certain protections that are in place and Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 20—Legal Matters of this report for more information.INTELLECTUAL PROPERTYWe own and manage the Visa brand, which stands for acceptance, security, convenience and universality. Our portfolio of trademarks, in particular our family of Visa marks, our PLUS mark and our Dove design mark, are important to our business. We give our clients access to these assets through agreements with our issuers and acquirers, which authorize the use of our trademarks in connection with their participation in our payments network. We also own a number of patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relating to payment solutions, transaction processing, security systems and other matters. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology.NET OPERATING REVENUES 10Table of ContentsOur gross revenues are principally comprised of service revenues, data processing revenues, international transaction revenues and other revenues. Net operating revenues are gross revenues reduced by costs incurred under client incentive arrangements. We have one reportable segment, Payment Services. Revenue DetailsCOMPETITIONThe global payments industry continues to undergo dynamic change. Existing and emerging competitors compete with Visa for consumers, financial institution clients and merchant participation in our network and payment solutions. Technology and innovation is shifting consumer habits and driving growth opportunities in ecommerce, mobile payments, block chain technology and digital currencies. These advances are enabling new entrants, many of which depart from traditional network payment models. In certain countries, the evolving regulatory landscape is changing how we compete, creating local networks or enabling processing competition.We compete against all forms of payment. This includes paper-based payments, primarily cash and checks, and all forms of electronic payments. Our electronic payment competitors principally include: 11Table of ContentsGlobal or Multi-Regional Networks, which typically offer a range of branded, general purpose card payment products that can be used at millions of merchant locations around the world. Examples include MasterCard, American Express, Discover and JCB. These competitors may be more concentrated in specific geographic regions, such as JCB in Japan and Discover in the U.S., or have a leading position in certain countries. For example, UnionPay operates the sole domestic acceptance mark in China. Based on available data, Visa is one of the largest retail electronic funds transfer networks used throughout the world. The following chart compares our network with these network competitors for calendar year 2015(1):(1) UnionPay, which operates primarily within the Chinese domestic market, is not included in this table as Visa currently does not compete in that market under local law. Although we are uncertain how UnionPay reports certain volumes, reportedly its numbers could approach or exceed some of those listed in this chart.(2) The data presented are provided by our financial institution clients. Previously submitted information may be updated and all data are subject to review by Visa. Visa Europe data are included.(3) MasterCard, American Express, JCB and Discover/Diners Club data sourced from The Nilson Report issue 1085 (April 2016). Includes all consumer and commercial credit, debit and prepaid cards. Some figures are estimates and currency figures are in U.S. dollars. MasterCard excludes Maestro and Cirrus figures. American Express includes figures for third-party issuers. Discover figures consist of U.S. data only and include third-party issuers. JCB figures include third-party issuers and other payment-related products.Local and regional networks, that operate in many countries, often with the support of government influence or mandate. In some cases, they are owned by financial intuitions. These networks typically focus on debit payment products, have functionality or their brand marks present with the Visa brand on the card or payment device, and may have strong local acceptance and recognizable brands. Examples include STAR, NYCE, and Pulse in the United States, Interac in Canada, and EFTPOS in Australia. Alternate Payment Providers, which often have a primary focus of enabling payments through ecommerce and mobile channels. These companies may process payments using in-house account transfers between parties, electronic funds transfer networks like the Automated Clearing House (ACH), or global or local networks like Visa. In some cases, these entities are both a partner and a competitor to Visa. Examples include PayPal and Alipay. Other Electronic Payment Networks like the ACH in the U.S. are often created and governed by local governments. Historically focused on interbank transfers, many are adding capabilities that may make them more competitive for retail payments. We also compete with closed-loop payment systems, wire transfers and electronic benefit transfers.Payment Processors, where we face competition for the processing of Visa transactions or are not permitted to do so under local regulation. For example, as a result of regulation in Europe under the Second Payment Services Directive (PSD2), we may face competition from other networks, processors and other third-parties who could process Visa transactions directly with issuers and acquirers. We also face increasingly intense competitive pressure on the prices we charge our financial institution clients. We believe our fundamental value proposition of acceptance, security, convenience and universality offers us a key competitive advantage. We succeed in part because we understand the needs of the individual markets in which we operate. We do so by partnering with local financial institutions, merchants, governments, non-governmental  12Table of Contentsorganizations and business organizations to provide tailored solutions to meet their varied needs. We believe Visa is well-positioned competitively, due to our global brand, our broad set of Visa-branded payment products and our proven track record of processing payment transactions securely and reliably through VisaNet.SEASONALITYWe generally do not experience any pronounced seasonality in our business. No individual quarter of fiscal 2016 or fiscal 2015 accounted for more than 30% of our operating revenues in those years.WORKING CAPITALPayments settlement due to and from our financial institution clients can represent a substantial daily working capital requirement. Most U.S. dollar settlements are settled within the same day and do not result in a receivable or payable balance, while settlement in currencies other than the U.S. dollar generally remain outstanding for one to two business days, which is consistent with industry practice for such transactions.FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT GEOGRAPHIC AREASFor more information on the concentration of our operating revenues and other financial information, see Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 13—Enterprise-wide Disclosures and Concentration of Business included elsewhere in this report.GOVERNMENT REGULATIONAs a global payments technology company, we are subject to complex and evolving global regulations in the various jurisdictions in which our products and services are used. The most significant government regulations that impact our business are discussed below. For further discussion of how global regulations may impact our business, see —Risk Factors—Regulatory Risks above;•discovery of unidentified issues after the acquisition or investment was made;•failure to mitigate the liabilities of the acquired business; for example, while we have attempted to mitigate the risk of loss associated with certain Visa Europe litigation through the issuance of the preferred stock, there can be no guarantee that the liabilities associated with that litigation will not exceed the value of such preferred stock;•dilutive issuance of equity securities, if new securities are issued;•potential incurrence of debt, including the substantial amount of debt incurred in connection with the Visa Europe acquisition;•negative impact on our financial position and/or statement of operations; and•anticipated benefits or value of the investment or acquisition not materializing.We may be unable to attract, hire and retain a highly qualified and diverse workforce, including key management.  23Table of ContentsThe talents and efforts of our employees, particularly our key management, are vital to our success. Our management team has significant industry experience and would be difficult to replace. We may be unable to retain them or to attract other highly qualified employees, particularly if we do not offer employment terms that are competitive with the rest of the labor market. Failure to attract, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and diverse employee talent, or failure to develop and implement an adequate succession plan for the management team, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and our future success.The conversions of our class B and class C common stock or series B and series C preferred stock into shares of class A common stock would result in voting dilution to, and could impact the market price of, our existing class A common stock. The market price of our class A common stock could fall as a result of many factors. Under our U.S. retrospective responsibility plan, upon final resolution of our U.S. covered litigation, all class B common stock will become convertible into class A common stock. In connection with the acquisition of Visa Europe, we issued series B and series C preferred stock, which will become convertible into class A common stock in stages based on developments in current and potential litigation and will become fully convertible no later than 2028 (subject to a holdback to cover any pending claims). Conversion of our class B and class C common stock into class A common stock, or our series B and series C preferred stock into class A common stock, would increase the amount of class A common stock outstanding, which could adversely affect the market price of our existing class A common stock and would dilute the voting power of existing class A common stockholders.Holders of our class B and C common stock and series B and series C preferred stock may have different interests than our class A common stockholders concerning certain significant transactions. Although their voting rights are limited, holders of our class B and C common stock and, in certain specified circumstances, holders of our series B and series C preferred stock, can vote on certain significant transactions. With respect to our class B and C common stock, these transactions include a proposed consolidation or merger, a decision to exit our core payments business and any other vote required under Delaware law. With respect to our series B and series C preferred stock, voting rights are limited to proposed consolidations or mergers in which holders of the series B and series C preferred stock would either (i) receive shares of stock or other equity securities with preferences, rights and privileges that are not substantially identical to the preferences, rights and privileges of the applicable series of preferred stock or (ii) receive securities, cash or other property that is different from what our class A common stockholders would receive. Because the holders of classes of capital stock other than class A common stock are our current and former financial institution clients, they may have interests that diverge from our class A common stockholders. As a result, the holders of these classes of capital stock may not have the same incentive to approve a corporate action that may be favorable to the holders of class A common stock, and their interests may otherwise conflict with interests of our class A common stockholders.Delaware law, provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could make a merger, takeover attempt or change in control difficult. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and our capital structure could delay or prevent a merger, takeover attempt or change in control that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, except for limited exceptions:•no person may beneficially own more than 15% of our class A common stock (or 15% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis), unless our board of directors approves the acquisition of such shares in advance;•no competitor or an affiliate of a competitor may hold more than 5% of our total outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis;•the affirmative votes of the class B and C common stock and series B and series C preferred stock are required for certain types of consolidations or mergers;•our stockholders may only take action during a stockholders’ meeting and may not act by written consent; and•only the board of directors, Chairman or CEO may call a special meeting of stockholders. 24Table of ContentsITEM 1B