, “Risk Factors,” which describes some of the risks and uncertainties associated with the proposed separation. For a further discussion of the planned separation, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Oncology Systems. Our largest business segment is Oncology Systems, which designs, manufactures, sells and services hardware and software products for treating cancer with conventional radiotherapy, and advanced treatments such as fixed field intensity-modulated radiation therapy (“IMRT”), image-guided radiation therapy (“IGRT”), volumetric modulated arc therapy (“VMAT”), stereotactic radiosurgery (“SRS”), stereotactic body radiotherapy (“SBRT”) and brachytherapy. Our software solutions also include informatics software for information management, clinical knowledge exchange, patient care management, practice management and decision-making support for comprehensive cancer clinics, radiotherapy centers and medical oncology practices.Our hardware products include linear accelerators, brachytherapy afterloaders, treatment simulation and verification equipment and accessories; and our software products include information management, treatment planning, image processing, clinical knowledge exchange, patient care management, decision-making support and practice management software. Our products 1enable radiation oncology departments in hospitals and clinics to perform conventional radiotherapy and brachytherapy treatments and offer advanced treatments such as IMRT, IGRT, VMAT, SRS and SBRT. Our products are also used by surgeons and radiation oncologists to perform radiosurgery. Furthermore, our software products help improve physician engagement and clinical knowledge-sharing, patient care management and management of cancer clinics, radiotherapy centers and oncology practices for better performance. Our worldwide customers include university research and community hospitals, private and governmental institutions, healthcare agencies, physicians’ offices, oncology practices, radiotherapy centers and cancer care clinics.Imaging Components. Our Imaging Components business segment designs, manufactures, sells and services X-ray imaging components for use in a range of applications, including radiographic or fluoroscopic imaging, mammography, special procedures, computed tomography, computer-aided diagnostics, and industrial applications. We provide a broad range of X-ray imaging components including X-ray tubes, flat panel digital image detectors, high voltage connectors, image processing software and workstations, computer-aided diagnostic software, collimators and automatic exposure control devices. We sell our X-ray imaging components to imaging system original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) customers that incorporate them into their medical diagnostic, dental, veterinary and industrial imaging systems, to independent service companies and directly to end-users for replacement purposes. Our Imaging Components business segment also designs, manufactures, sells and services security and inspection products, which include Linatron® X-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection purposes, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination in a variety of applications. We generally sell security and inspection products to OEM customers who incorporate our products into their inspection systems.Other. The “Other” category is comprised of VPT and the operations of the GTC.Our VPT business develops, designs, manufactures, sells and services products and systems for delivering proton therapy, another form of external beam radiotherapy using proton beams, for the treatment of cancer. Although proton therapy has been in clinical use for more than four decades, it has not been widely deployed due to high capital cost. Our current focus is bringing our expertise in traditional radiation therapy to proton therapy to improve its clinical utility and to reduce its cost of treatment per patient, so that it is more widely accepted and deployed.GTC, our scientific research facility, develops technologies for our current businesses or which may lead to new business areas, including technology to improve radiation therapy and X-ray imaging, as well as other technology for a variety of applications such as chemical or biological agents that work synergistically with radiation to improve treatment outcomes. Subsequent to fiscal year 2016, GTC was absorbed primarily into our Oncology Systems and Imaging Components businesses and is no longer a separate business.The Americas region includes North America (primarily United States and Canada) and Latin America. The EMEA region includes Europe, Russia, the Middle East, India and Africa. The APAC region primarily includes East and Southeast Asia and Australia. Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the factors described in , “Risk Factors.”For a discussion of financial information about geographic areas, see Note 17, “Segment Information” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and MD&A, which discussions are incorporated herein by reference.EmployeesWe had approximately 7,800 full time and part-time employees worldwide, including approximately 3,900 in the United States and approximately 3,900 elsewhere at September 30, 2016. None of our employees based in the United States are unionized or subject to collective bargaining agreements. Employees based in some other countries may, from time to time, be represented by works councils or unions or subject to collective bargaining agreements. We consider our relations with our employees to be good.Information Available to InvestorsAs soon as reasonably practicable after our filing or furnishing the information to the SEC, we make the following available free of charge on the Investors page of our website http://www.varian.com: our annual reports on Form 10-K; quarterly reports on Form 10-Q; current reports on Form 8-K (including any amendments to those reports); and proxy statements. Our Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation and Management Development Committee, Ethics and Compliance Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and Executive Committee are also available on the Investors page of our website. Investors and others should note that we 19announce material financial and operational information to our investors using our investor relations website (http://investors.varian.com/), press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. Please note that information on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not deemed “filed” with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). Executive Officers of the RegistrantThe biographical summaries of our executive officers, as of November 1, 2016, are as follows:Name Age PositionDow R. Wilson 57 President and Chief Executive OfficerElisha W. Finney 55 Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial OfficerKolleen T. Kennedy 57 Executive Vice President and President, Oncology SystemsJohn W. Kuo 53 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate SecretarySunny S. Sanyal 52 Senior Vice President and President, Imaging Components BusinessClarence R. Verhoef 61 Senior Vice President, Finance and Corporate ControllerDow R. Wilson was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer effective September 29, 2012. Mr. Wilson served as Corporate Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from October 2011 through September 2012 and as Corporate Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Systems from August 2005 through September 2011. Mr. Wilson served as Corporate Vice President and President, Oncology Systems from January 2005 to August 2005. Prior to joining the Company in January 2005, Mr. Wilson was Chief Executive Officer of the Healthcare-Information Technologies business in General Electric (a diversified technology and services company), from 2003 to 2005. During the previous 18 years, Mr. Wilson held various management positions within General Electric. Mr. Wilson holds a B.A. degree in English from Brigham Young University and an M.B.A. degree from Dartmouth’s Amos Tuck School of Business. Mr. Wilson served on the board of directors of Saba Software, Inc. (an e-learning software provider) from August 2006 to March 2015 and as the lead independent director of that board from August 2011 to March 2013. Mr. Wilson was appointed to our Board of Directors effective September 29, 2012.Elisha W. Finney was appointed Executive Vice President, Finance, in addition to being Chief Financial Officer, in February 2012. Ms. Finney served as Corporate Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2005 through January 2012 and as Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from April 1999 to January 2005. Ms. Finney has held various other positions, including Treasurer, during her 28 years with the Company. Ms. Finney holds a B.B.A. degree in risk management and insurance from the University of Georgia and an M.B.A. degree from Golden Gate University in San Francisco. Ms. Finney served on the board of Thoratec (a supplier of medical devices for circulatory support and vascular graft applications) from July 2007 to May 2013. She also served on the board of Altera Corporation (a supplier of custom logic solutions) from August 2011 to December 2015 when it was acquired by Intel. She joined the board of ICU Medical (a supplier of medical devices relating to IV therapy) in January 2016. In October 2016, Ms. Finney announced her intention to retire in fiscal year 2017.Kolleen T. Kennedy was appointed Executive Vice President and President, Oncology Systems effective September 2014, and was Senior Vice President and President, Oncology Systems from October 2011 to September 2014. From January 2006 through September 2011, Ms. Kennedy served as Vice President, Oncology Systems Customer Service and Support. Prior to that, Ms. Kennedy was the Company’s Vice President, Oncology Systems Marketing, Product Management and Engineering from September 2004 to January 2006. Prior to becoming Vice President, Ms. Kennedy served in various marketing management positions since she joined the Company in 1997. Ms. Kennedy holds a B.S. degree in Radiation Oncology and a B.S. degree in Psychology, both from Wayne State University, as well as an M.S. in Medical Physics from the University of Colorado.John W. Kuo was appointed Senior Vice President, in addition to being General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, in February 2012. Prior to that, he served as Corporate Vice President and General Counsel from July 2005 through January 2012 and as Corporate Secretary since February 2005. Mr. Kuo joined the Company as Senior Corporate Counsel in March 2003 and became Associate General Counsel in March 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kuo was General Counsel and Secretary at BroadVision, Inc. (an e-commerce software provider) and held senior legal positions at 3Com Corporation (a networking equipment provider). Mr. Kuo has previously been with the law firms of Gray Cary Ware & Freidenrich (now DLA Piper) and Fulbright & Jaworski. Mr. Kuo holds a B.A. degree from Cornell University and a J.D. degree from Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California at Berkeley.20Sunny S. Sanyal was appointed Senior Vice President and President, Imaging Components Business in February 2014. From August 2010 to January 2014, Mr. Sanyal served as the Chief Executive Officer of T-System Inc. (an information technology solutions and services provider). Mr. Sanyal worked for McKesson Corporation (a healthcare services and information technology company) as the Chief Operating Officer of McKesson Provider Technologies from December 2006 to July 2010 and as the Group President of McKesson’s Clinical Information Systems division from April 2004 to December 2006. Previously, he held various management positions with GE Healthcare, Accenture and IDX Systems Corporation. Mr. Sanyal holds an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School, an M.S. degree in industrial engineering from Louisiana State University, and a B.E. degree in electrical engineering from the University of Bombay.Clarence R. Verhoef was appointed Senior Vice President, Finance and Corporate Controller in August 2012. From May 2012 to August 2012, Mr. Verhoef served as the Company’s Vice President and Operations Controller, and from September 2006 to May 2012, he served as the Controller for the Company’s X-Ray Products business. Prior to joining the Company, from 2003 to September 2006, Mr. Verhoef served as the Chief Financial Officer of Techniscan Medical Systems Inc. (a developer of ultrasound technology), and prior to that held various finance management positions with GE Healthcare and other medical imaging equipment companies. Mr. Verhoef holds a B.S. degree in Finance from the University of Utah.Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. Although the risk factors described below are the ones management deems significant, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business operations. If any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected.OUR SUCCESS DEPENDS ON THE SUCCESSFUL DEVELOPMENT, INTRODUCTION AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF NEW GENERATIONS OF PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO OR SIMPLIFICATIONS OF EXISTING PRODUCT LINES The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapid change and technological innovation. Our Oncology Systems products often have long development and government approval cycles, so we must anticipate changes in the marketplace, in technology and in customer demands. Our success depends on the successful development, introduction and commercialization of new generations of products (including linear accelerators, accessories, treatment systems and software products) and enhancements to and/or simplification of existing product lines. Our Oncology Systems products, including products such as EDGE and TrueBeam, are technologically complex and must keep pace with, if not be superior to, the products of our competitors in order to remain competitive. We are also expanding our software product lines and investing in the development of cloud and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”) solutions. The development and introduction of new software platforms and software delivery models, as well as different revenue models, can be highly complex and uncertain, in relation to both our ability to develop and implement such platforms or models and in our customers’ acceptance of such platforms or models. Our Imaging Components business, which sells primarily to a small number of imaging system OEM customers which use our products in their medical diagnostic, security and industrial imaging systems, must continually introduce new products at competitive costs while also improving existing products with higher quality, lower costs and improved feature sets. Because this business competes in very price sensitive markets with other market players which are much larger and may have “in-house” supply of competing components, our ability to anticipate our customers’ demands, innovate and introduce new products at a competitive cost and to improve the quality, cost and features of our existing products is extremely critical to our success in this business. Our failure to do so can and has resulted in loss of customers and adverse impacts on our financial performance. With a strong U.S. Dollar, our ability to meet our international customers’ pricing expectations is particularly challenged and can result in erosion of product margin and market share.We are investing in the growth of our Particle Therapy business, and expect that we will need to invest more to develop and commercialize new products and technology for this business. Accordingly, our products may require significant planning, design, development and testing, as well as significant capital commitments, involvement of senior management and other investments on our part. In addition, because of the large footprint and high price of many proton therapy systems, including ours, there is increasing demand for development of a smaller, more compact proton therapy system. Other companies currently offer smaller, less expensive proton therapy systems, and our ability to compete with these companies may depend on our ability to timely develop new technologies to reduce the size and price of our system or provide additional features and functionality that our competitors do not. 21We may need to spend more time and money than anticipated to develop and introduce new products or product enhancements and, even if new products and product enhancements are successful they may not be sufficiently profitable such that we are able to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment. Once introduced, new products may adversely impact orders and sales of our existing products, or make them less desirable or even obsolete, which could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. In addition, certain costs, including installation and warranty costs, associated with new products may be proportionately greater than the costs associated with other products, and may therefore disproportionately adversely affect our gross and operating margins. If we are unable to lower these costs over time, our operating results could be adversely affected. Compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences may also impact our success with new products or enhancements. Our ability to successfully develop and introduce new products and product enhancements and simplifications, and the revenues and costs associated with these efforts, depends on our ability to: •properly identify customer needs or long-term customer demands; •prove the feasibility of new products; •limit the time required from proof of feasibility to routine production; •timely and efficiently comply with internal quality assurance systems and processes; •limit the timing and cost of regulatory approvals; •accurately predict and control costs associated with inventory overruns or shortages caused by phase-in of new products and phase-out of old products; •price our products competitively and profitably; •manufacture, deliver and install our products in sufficient volumes on time, and accurately predict and control costs associated with manufacturing, installation, warranty and maintenance of the products; •appropriately manage our supply chain; •manage customer acceptance and payment for products; •manage customer demands for retrofits of both new and old products; and •anticipate, respond to and compete successfully with competitors. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to successfully develop, manufacture or introduce new products, treatment systems or enhancements, the roll-out of which involves compliance with complex quality assurance processes, including the Quality System Regulation (“QSR”) of the FDA. Failure to complete these processes on a timely and efficient basis could result in delays that could affect our ability to attract or retain customers, or could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, causing our revenues and operating results to suffer. New products generally take longer to install than well-established products. Because a portion of a product’s revenue is generally tied to installation and acceptance of the product, our recognition of revenue associated with new products may be deferred longer than expected. In addition, even if we succeed in our product introductions, potential customers may decide not to upgrade their equipment, or customers may delay delivery of some of our more sophisticated products because of the longer preparation and renovation of treatment rooms required. As a result, our revenues and other financial results could be adversely affected. MORE THAN HALF OF OUR REVENUES ARE INTERNATIONAL, AND ECONOMIC, POLITICAL AND OTHER RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL SALES AND OPERATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES OR MAKE THEM LESS PREDICTABLE We conduct business globally. Our international revenues accounted for approximately 57%, 54% and 57% of our total revenues during fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Correspondingly, we must provide significant service and support globally. We intend to continue to expand our presence in international markets and expect to expend significant resources in doing so. For example, we have aligned our resources to support sales and marketing efforts in emerging markets. We cannot be sure, however, that we will be able to meet our sales, service and support objectives or obligations in these international markets, or recover our investments. Our future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including: 22•currency fluctuations, and in particular the strength of the U.S. Dollar since the end of our fiscal year 2014 relative to many currencies, which has adversely affected our financial results and caused some customers to delay purchasing decisions or move to in-sourcing supply or migrate to lower cost alternatives or ask for additional discounts; •the lower sales prices and gross margins usually associated with sales of our products in international regions, and in emerging markets in particular; •the longer payment cycles associated with many foreign customers; •difficulties in interpreting or enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through many foreign country’s legal systems; •unstable regional political and economic conditions or changes in restrictions on trade between the United States and other countries, such as may result from the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election;•changes in the political, regulatory, safety or economic conditions in a country or region, including as a result of the United Kingdom’s June 2016 vote to leave the European Union (“Brexit”); •the imposition by governments of additional taxes, tariffs, global economic sanctions programs (such as the Russia-Ukraine sanctions) or other restrictions on foreign trade; •the typically longer periods from placement of orders to revenue recognition in international regions; •any inability to obtain required export or import licenses or approvals; •failure to comply with export laws and requirements, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to export our products, particularly our industrial linear accelerator products; •failure to obtain proper business licenses or other documentation, or to otherwise comply with local laws and requirements regarding marketing, sales, service or any other business we conduct in a foreign jurisdiction, which may result in civil or criminal penalties and restrictions on our ability to conduct business in that jurisdiction; and •the possibility that it may be more difficult to protect our intellectual property in foreign countries.Although our orders and sales fluctuate from period to period, in recent years our international sales have represented a larger share of our business. The more we depend on international sales, the more vulnerable we become to these factors.    As of September 30, 2016, approximately 95% of our cash and cash equivalents were held abroad. If these funds were repatriated to the United States, a portion of this amount could be subject to additional taxation and our overall tax rate and our results of operations could suffer. Our effective tax rate is impacted by tax laws in both the United States and in the countries in which our international subsidiaries do business. Earnings from our international regions are generally taxed at rates lower than U.S. rates. A change in the percentage of our total earnings from outside the United States, a change in the mix of our earnings in particular international tax jurisdictions, or a change in currency exchange rates, could cause our effective tax rate to increase or decrease. Also, we are not currently taxed in the United States on certain undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. These earnings could become subject to incremental foreign withholding or U.S. federal and state taxes should they either be deemed to be or actually are remitted to the United States, in which case our financial results would be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in tax laws or rates, changes in the interpretation of tax laws or other changes beyond our control could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.THE PROPOSED SEPARATION OF OUR IMAGING COMPONENTS BUSINESS INTO AN INDEPENDENT, PUBLICLY-TRADED COMPANY MAY NOT BE COMPLETED ON THE CURRENTLY CONTEMPLATED TIMELINE OR TERMS, OR AT ALL, MAY BE MORE EXPENSIVE THAN ANTICIPATED AND MAY NOT ACHIEVE THE INTENDED BENEFITS.In May 2016, we announced our intention to separate our Imaging Components business into an independent, publicly-traded company, named Varex Imaging Corporation ("Varex"). The separation is subject to final board approval of the terms of the separation, receipt of one or more opinions with respect to certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the separation, the SEC declaring the effectiveness of the registration statement, market and certain other conditions, and there can be no assurance as to whether or when the separation will occur. Unforeseen developments, including possible delays in obtaining various tax and regulatory approvals or clearances, could delay or prevent the proposed separation or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected. We expect the process of completing the proposed separation will be time-consuming and involve significant costs and expenses, which may be 23significantly higher than what we currently anticipate, may increase in the event that the timing of the separation is delayed and may not yield a benefit if the separation is not completed. Executing the proposed separation, as well as performing Varian’s obligations under a transition services agreement to be entered into with Varex for a period of time after the separation, will require significant time and attention from our senior management and employees, which could adversely affect our business, financial results and results of operations. Separating the businesses may also result in dis-synergies post-separation that could negatively impact the balance sheet, income statement and cash flows of each business. In addition, upon completion of the separation, Varex will be the sole source of supply of X-ray tubes and flat panels used in certain of our products, such as our On-Board Imager. Any disruption to or reduction in the supply of these components could result in delays to our product deliveries, which could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. Moreover, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, marketing or other benefits from the separation. As independent, publicly-traded companies, Varian and Varex would each be smaller, less diversified companies with narrower business focuses and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect their respective businesses, financial condition and results of operations and lead to increased volatility in the price of Varian and/or Varex common stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies would be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred.We intend to obtain an opinion of outside counsel to the effect that the separation will qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free to both Varian and its stockholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. An opinion of outside counsel represents their legal judgment but is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) or any court. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinion or that a court would not sustain such a challenge.OUR RESULTS HAVE BEEN AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE AFFECTED BY GLOBAL OR REGIONAL ECONOMIC INSTABILITY The global economy has been impacted by a number of economic and political factors, including the current Russia-Ukraine sanctions. In many markets, these conditions have reduced capital equipment budgets, slowed decision-making, made financing for large equipment purchases more expensive and more time consuming to obtain, and made it difficult for our customers and our vendors to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. This, in turn, has caused our customers to be more cautious with, and to sometimes freeze, delay or dramatically reduce, purchases and capital project expenditures. Some countries have adopted and may in the future adopt austerity or stimulus programs that could positively or negatively affect our results from period to period, making it difficult for investors to compare our financial results from period to period. In addition, the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election and the announcement of Brexit and the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our customers to reduce their spending, which in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. An uncertain economic environment may also disrupt supply or affect our service business, as customers’ constrained budgets may result in pricing pressure, extended warranty provisions and even cancellation of service contracts. In addition, concerns over continued economic instability could make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. Historically, our business has felt the effects of market trends later than other sectors in the healthcare industry, such as diagnostic radiology, and we may experience the effects of any economic recovery later than others in the healthcare industry. A weak or deteriorating healthcare market would inevitably adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. WE FACE SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE MANUFACTURE AND DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS, AND FAILURE OR DELAYS IN OBTAINING REGULATORY CLEARANCES OR APPROVALS, OR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND REGULATIONS COULD PREVENT US FROM DISTRIBUTING OUR PRODUCTS, REQUIRE US TO RECALL OUR PRODUCTS AND RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT PENALTIES Our products and those of OEMs that incorporate our products are subject to extensive and rigorous government regulation in the United States. Compliance with these laws and regulations is expensive and time-consuming, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, public media reports on misadministrations of radiotherapy in patients and focus on the role of the FDA in regulating medical devices has led to increased scrutiny of medical device companies and an increased likelihood of enforcement actions. 24U.S. laws governing marketing a medical device. In the United States, as a manufacturer and seller of medical devices and devices emitting radiation or utilizing radioactive by-product material, we and some of our suppliers and distributors are subject to extensive regulation by federal governmental authorities, such as the FDA, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (“NRC”) and state and local regulatory agencies, such as the State of California, to ensure the devices are safe and effective and comply with laws governing products which emit, produce or control radiation. These regulations govern, among other things, the design, development, testing, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, import/export, sale and marketing and disposal of our products. Unless an exception applies, the FDA requires that the manufacturer of a new medical device or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing currently marketed medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval (“PMA”) before it can market or sell those products in the United States. Modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the device, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process also require a new 510(k) clearance. Although manufacturers make the initial determination whether a change to a cleared device requires a new 510(k) clearance, we cannot assure you that the FDA will agree with our decisions not to seek additional approvals or clearances for particular modifications to our products or that we will be successful in obtaining new 510(k) clearances for modifications. Obtaining clearances or approvals is time-consuming, expensive and uncertain, and the PMA process is more complex than the 510(k) clearance process. We may not be able to obtain the necessary clearances or approvals or may be unduly delayed in doing so, which could harm our business. Furthermore, even if we are granted regulatory clearances or approvals, they may include significant limitations on the indicated uses of the product, which may limit the market for the product. If we were unable to obtain required FDA clearance or approval for a product or unduly delayed in doing so, or the uses of that product were limited, our business could suffer. In the past, our devices have generally been subject to 510(k) clearance or exempt from 510(k) clearance. However, there are some in the regulatory field who believe that certain medical devices should be required to use the PMA approval process. If we were required to use the PMA process for future products or product modifications, it could delay or prevent release of the proposed products or modifications, which could harm our business. Further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities, such as radiosurgery and opportunities that require clinical trials, we become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations, including FDA and foreign rules and regulations that are applicable to the clinical trial process and protection of study subjects. Becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. In addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. Quality systems. Our manufacturing operations for medical devices, and those of our third-party manufacturers, are required to comply with the FDA’s QSR, as well as other federal and state regulations for medical devices and radiation emitting products. The FDA makes announced and unannounced periodic and on-going inspections of medical device manufacturers to determine compliance with QSR and in connection with these inspections issues reports, known as Form FDA 483 reports when the FDA believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. If observations from the FDA issued on Form FDA 483 reports are not addressed and/or corrective action is not taken in a timely manner and to the FDA’s satisfaction, the FDA may issue a Warning Letter and/or proceed directly to other forms of enforcement action. Similarly, if a Warning Letter were issued, prompt corrective action to come into compliance would be required. Failure to respond timely to Form FDA 483 observations, a Warning Letter or other notice of noncompliance and to promptly come into compliance could result in the FDA bringing enforcement action against us, which could include the total shutdown of our production facilities, denial of importation rights to the U.S. for products manufactured in overseas locations, adverse publicity and criminal and civil fines. The expense and costs of any corrective actions that we may take, which may include products recalls, correction and removal of products from customer sites and/or changes to our product manufacturing and quality systems, could adversely impact our financial results and may also divert management resources, attention and time. Additionally, if a Warning Letter were issued, customers could delay purchasing decisions or cancel orders, and we could face increased pressure from our competitors who could use the Warning Letter against us in competitive sales situations, either of which could adversely affect our reputation, business and stock price. In addition, we are required to timely file various reports with the FDA, including reports required by the medical device reporting regulations (“MDRs”), that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. If these reports are not filed on a timely basis, regulators may impose sanctions and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. If we initiate a correction or removal of a device to reduce a risk to health posed by the device, we would be required to submit a publicly available Correction and Removal report to the FDA and in many cases, similar reports to other regulatory agencies. 25This report could be classified by the FDA as a device recall which could lead to increased scrutiny by the FDA, other international regulatory agencies and our customers regarding the quality and safety of our devices. Furthermore, the submission of these reports has been and could be used against us by competitors in competitive situations and cause customers to delay purchase decisions, cancel orders or adversely affect our reputation. Our medical devices utilizing radioactive material are subject to the NRC clearance and approval requirements, and the manufacture and sale of these products are subject to extensive federal and state regulation that varies from state to state and among regions. Our manufacture, distribution, installation and service (and decommissioning and removal) of medical devices utilizing radioactive material or emitting radiation also requires us to obtain a number of licenses and certifications for these devices and materials. Service of these products must also be in accordance with a specific radioactive materials license. Obtaining licenses and certifications may be time consuming, expensive and uncertain. In addition, we are subject to a variety of environmental laws regulating our manufacturing operations and the handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials, and which impose liability for the cleanup of any contamination from these materials. In particular, the handling and disposal of radioactive materials resulting from the manufacture, use or disposal of our products may impose significant costs and requirements. Disposal sites for the lawful disposal of materials generated by the manufacture, use or decommissioning of our products may no longer accept these materials in the future, or may accept them on unfavorable terms. The FDA and the FTC also regulate advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is adequate and reasonable scientific data to substantiate the claims and that our promotional labeling and advertising is neither false nor misleading in any respect. If the FDA or FTC determines that any of our advertising or promotional claims are misleading, not substantiated or not permissible, we may be subject to enforcement actions, including Warning Letters, and may be required to revise our promotional claims and make other corrections or restitutions. If we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with FDA, FTC and other applicable U.S. regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: •adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; •increased pressures from our competitors; •investigations by governmental authorities or Warning Letters; •fines, injunctions, and civil penalties; •partial suspensions or total shutdown of production facilities, or the imposition of operating restrictions; •increased difficulty in obtaining required FDA clearances or approvals; •losses of clearances or approvals already granted; •seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; •delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; •the inability to sell our products; •difficulty in obtaining product liability or operating insurance at a reasonable cost, or at all; and •civil fines and criminal prosecutions. Other applicable U.S. regulations. As a participant in the healthcare industry, we are also subject to extensive laws and regulations protecting the privacy and integrity of patient medical information that we receive, including the HIPAA, “fraud and abuse” laws and regulations, including physician self-referral prohibitions, and false claims laws. From time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, such as recent proposed revisions to the laws prohibiting physician self-referrals, and such revisions could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. We also must comply with numerous federal, state and local laws of more general applicability relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and fire hazard control. The laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. For example, national and state laws regulate privacy and may regulate our use of data. Furthermore, HIPAA was amended by the HITECH Act to provide that business associates who have access to patient health information provided by hospitals and healthcare providers are now directly subject to HIPAA, including the new enforcement scheme and inspection requirements. Moreover, there has been a trend in recent years toward 26more stringent regulation and enforcement of requirements applicable to medical device manufacturers who receive or have access to patient health information. Government regulation also may cause considerable delay or even prevent the marketing and full commercialization of future products or services that we may develop, and/or may impose costly requirements on our business. Insurance coverage is not commercially available for violations of law, including the fines, penalties or investigatory costs that we may incur as the consequence of regulatory violations; consequently, we do not have insurance that would cover this type of liability. OUR RESULTS MAY BE IMPACTED BY CHANGES IN FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES Because our business is global and payments are generally made in local currency, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can impact our results by affecting product demand, or our revenues and expenses, and/or the profitability in U.S. Dollars of products and services that we sell in foreign markets. For example, since the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014, the U.S. Dollar has strengthened significantly against the Euro and certain foreign currencies, which adversely impacted our financial results in fiscal year 2015 and in the first half of fiscal year 2016. In addition, Brexit caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates that resulted in the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. A strong U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our operating results.While we use hedging strategies to help offset the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the protection these strategies provide is affected by the timing of transactions, the effectiveness of the hedges, the number of transactions that are hedged and forecast accuracy. If our hedging strategies do not offset these fluctuations, our revenues, margins and other operating results may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, movements in foreign currency exchange rates could impact our financial results positively or negatively in one period and not in another, making it more difficult to compare our financial results from period to period. In addition, our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis - typically up to the next twelve-month period. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. Long-term movements in foreign currency exchange rates can also affect the competitiveness of our products in the local currencies of our international customers. A substantial portion of our international sales are priced in local currencies, although our cost structure is weighted towards the U.S. Dollar. The volatility of the U.S. Dollar that we have experienced over the last several years, and in particular the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar since the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014, has affected the competitiveness of our pricing against our foreign competitors, some of which may have cost structures based in other currencies, either helping or hindering our international order and revenue growth, thereby affecting our overall financial performance and results. In addition, a significant portion of our Imaging Component customers are outside the United States and products in this business are generally priced in U.S. Dollars. As a result, the demand for Imaging Components products has been negatively impacted by pricing pressures resulting from the strengthening U.S. Dollar. The negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates has caused some customers in our Imaging Components business to delay purchasing decisions or move to in-sourcing supply or migrate to lower cost alternatives or ask for additional discounts. We expect that a strong U.S. Dollar will continue to negatively impact demand and pricing for Imaging Component products. Even if the U.S. Dollar weakens, these customers may continue using alternative sources and demand for our products may not increase.Changes in monetary or other policies here and abroad, including as a result of economic and or political instability, or in reaction thereto, would also likely affect foreign currency exchange rates. Furthermore, in the event that one or more European countries were to replace the Euro with another currency, our sales into these countries, or into Europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until such time as stable exchange rates are established. DISRUPTION OF CRITICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS OR MATERIAL BREACHES IN THE SECURITY OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND CUSTOMER RELATIONSInformation technology helps us operate efficiently, interface with and support our customers, maintain financial accuracy and efficiency, and produce our financial statements. There is an increasing threat of information security attacks that pose risk to companies, including Varian. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to, among other things, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through a security breach. Such security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of information, litigation and possible liability to employees, customers and regulatory authorities. If our data management systems do not effectively collect, secure, store, process and report relevant data for the operation of our business, whether due to equipment malfunction or constraints, software 27deficiencies, or human error, our ability to effectively plan, forecast and execute our business plan and comply with applicable laws and regulations will be impaired, perhaps materially. Any such impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the timeliness with which we report our operating results internally and externally.  Moreover, we manufacture and sell hardware products that rely upon software systems to operate properly and software that deliver treatment instructions and store confidential patient information, and both types of products often are connected to and reside within our customers' information technology infrastructures. While we have implemented security measures to protect both our hardware and software products from unauthorized access, these measures may not be effective in fully securing these products, particularly since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target. Additionally, we are developing and offering cloud and SaaS software products which reside upon and are hosted by third party providers. A security breach, whether of our products, of our customers’ network security and systems or of third party hosting services could disrupt treatments occurring on our products, disrupt access to our customers' stored information, such as patient treatment delivery instructions, and could lead to the loss of, damage to or public disclosure of our customers’ stored information, including patient health information. Such an event could have serious negative consequences, including possible patient injury, regulatory action, fines, penalties and damages, reduced demand for our solutions, an unwillingness of our customers to use our solutions, harm to our reputation and brand, and time-consuming and expensive litigation, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. If we were to experience a significant security breach of our information systems or data, the costs associated with the investigation, remediation and potential notification of the breach to customers and counter-parties could be material, and we may not have sufficient insurance to compensate us for those costs. In addition, if a material claim is successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability, we may have to pay substantial damages, in addition to any costs related to our defense, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.COMPLIANCE WITH FOREIGN LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO THE MANUFACTURE AND DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS MAY BE COSTLY, AND FAILURE TO COMPLY MAY RESULT IN SIGNIFICANT PENALTIES Regulatory requirements affecting our operations and sales outside the United States vary from country to country, often differing significantly from those in the United States. In general, outside the United States, our products are regulated as medical devices by foreign governmental agencies similar to the FDA. Marketing a medical device internationally. In order for us to market our products internationally, we must obtain clearances or approvals for products and product modifications. These processes (including for example in the European Union (“EU”), the European Economic Area (“EEA”), Switzerland, China, Japan and Canada) can be time consuming, expensive and uncertain, which can delay our ability to market products in those countries. Delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory approvals, the inclusion of significant limitations on the indicated uses of a product, the loss of previously obtained approvals or failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could restrict or prevent us from doing business in a country or subject us to a variety of enforcement actions and civil or criminal penalties, which would adversely affect our business. Within the EEA, we must affix a CE mark, a European marking of conformity that indicates that a product meets the essential requirements of the Medical Device Directive. This conformity to the Medical Device Directive is done through self-declaration and is verified by an independent certification body, called a “Notified Body.” Once the CE mark is affixed, the Notified Body will regularly audit us to ensure that we remain in compliance with the applicable European laws and Medical Device Directive. By affixing the CE mark marking to our product, we are certifying that our products comply with the laws and regulations required by the EEA countries, thereby allowing the free movement of our products within these countries and others that accept CE mark standards. If we cannot support our performance claims and demonstrate compliance with the applicable European laws and Medical Device Directive, we would lose our right to affix the CE mark to our products, which would prevent us from selling our products within the EU/EEA/Switzerland territory and in other countries that recognize the CE mark. In September 2012, the European Commission adopted a Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on medical devices and a Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on in vitro diagnostic medical devices which, once adopted by the European Parliament and by the Council, would replace the existing three medical devices directives and would have legislative effect without having to be implemented by the Member States. The new draft was published in August 2016 and the expected date for publication is April 2017, starting a three year transition period. The new proposal imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants Notified Bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. We may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers’ facilities in order to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations. 28In addition, we are required to timely file various reports with international regulatory authorities, including reports required by international adverse event reporting regulations, that require that we report to regulatory authorities if our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. If these reports are not timely filed, regulators may impose sanctions, including temporarily suspending our market authorizations or CE mark, and sales of our products may suffer, and we may be subject to product liability or regulatory enforcement actions, all of which could harm our business. Further, as we enter new businesses or pursue new business opportunities internationally, such as opportunities that require clinical trials, we may become subject to additional laws, rules and regulations. Becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with these laws, rules and regulations is costly. In addition, failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay the introduction of new products and could adversely affect our business. Manufacturing and selling a device internationally. We are also subject to laws and regulations that apply to manufacturers of radiation emitting devices and products utilizing radioactive materials, as well as laws and regulations of general applicability relating to matters such as environmental protection, safe working conditions, manufacturing practices and other matters. These are often comparable to, if not more stringent than, the equivalent regulations in the United States. Sales overseas are also affected by regulation of matters such as product standards, packaging, labeling, environmental and product recycling requirements, import and export restrictions, tariffs, duties and taxes. In some countries, we rely on our foreign distributors and agents to assist us in complying with foreign regulatory requirements, and we cannot be sure that they will always do so. If we or any of our suppliers, distributors, agents or customers fail to comply with applicable international regulatory requirements or are perceived to potentially have failed to comply, we may face: •adverse publicity affecting both us and our customers; •investigations by governmental authorities; •fines, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions; •increased difficulty in obtaining required approvals in foreign countries; •losses of clearances or approvals already granted; •seizures or recalls of our products or those of our customers; •delays in purchasing decisions by customers or cancellation of existing orders; and •the inability to sell our products in or to import our products into such countries. Other applicable international regulations. We are subject to laws and regulations in foreign countries covering data privacy and other protection of health and employee information. Particularly within the EU/EEA/Switzerland area, data protection legislation is comprehensive and complex and there has been a recent trend toward more stringent enforcement of requirements regarding protection and confidentiality of personal data. Data protection authorities from the different member states of the EU may interpret the legislation differently, which adds to this complexity, and data protection is a dynamic field where guidance is often revised. Fully understanding and implementing this legislation could be quite costly and timely, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, in some instances, in order to fulfill the requirements of applicable U.S. laws, we may be faced with deciding whether to comply with EU/EEA/Switzerland data protection rules. Failure or partial failure to comply with data protection rules and regulations across the EU/EEA/Switzerland area could result in substantial monetary fines. New data protection legislation that entails substantial changes to the current legal framework, some stricter than before, some less strict, was enacted by the EU Commission in 2015. We are also subject to international “fraud and abuse” laws and regulations, as well as false claims and misleading advertisement laws. From time to time, these laws and regulations may be revised or interpreted in ways that could make it more difficult for our customers to conduct their businesses, which could have an adverse effect on the demand for our products, and therefore our business and results of operations. The laws and regulations and their enforcement are constantly undergoing change, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, changes to these laws and regulations may have on our business. 29THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT INCLUDES PROVISIONS THAT MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, INCLUDING AN EXCISE TAX ON THE SALES OF MOST MEDICAL DEVICES On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act could adversely impact the demand for our products and services, and therefore our financial position and results of operations, possibly materially. Specifically, one of the components of the law is a 2.3% excise tax on sales of most medical devices, which include our Oncology Systems and VPT products, which took effect on January 1, 2013. This tax has had, and may in the future continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin, but was suspended for 2016 and 2017. In addition, discussions relating to the Affordable Care Act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and accountable care organizations (“ACOs”). ACOs and bundled payment programs were established by the Affordable Care Act to reward integrated, efficient care and allow providers to share in any savings they achieve through the coordination of care and meeting certain mandated quality standards. ACOs and the bundled payment programs have primarily focused on primary care. However, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an ACO environment and bundled reimbursement payments. These and other elements of the Affordable Care Act, including comparative effectiveness research, an independent payment advisory board, payment system reforms (including shared savings pilots) and the reporting of certain payments by us to healthcare professionals and hospitals (the “Physician Payment Sunshine Act”), could meaningfully change the way healthcare is developed and delivered, and may materially impact numerous aspects of our business, including the demand and availability of our products, the reimbursement available for our products from governmental and third-party payors, and medical procedure volumes. We believe that growth of the radiation oncology market, which includes both traditional radiation therapy as well as proton therapy, in the United States is being adversely impacted as customers’ decision-making processes are complicated by the uncertainties surrounding the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery, and that this uncertainty will likely continue into the next fiscal year and could result in a high degree of variability of gross orders and revenues from quarter-to-quarter. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level, and we are unable to predict which, if any of these proposals will be enacted. We are also unable to predict what effect ongoing uncertainty surrounding federal and state health reform proposals will have on our customer’s purchasing decisions. However, an expansion in government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may adversely affect our business, possibly materially. In addition, it is possible that changes in administration and policy, including the potential repeal of all or parts of the Affordable Care Act, resulting from the recent U.S. presidential election could result in additional proposals and/or changes to health care system legislation which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The full effect that a full or partial repeal of the Affordable Care Act would have on our business remains unclear at this time.CHANGES TO RADIATION ONCOLOGY AND OTHER REIMBURSEMENTS AND CHANGES IN INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES AND ADMINISTRATION MAY AFFECT DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS Sales of our healthcare products indirectly depend on whether adequate reimbursement is available to our customers from a variety of sources, such as government healthcare insurance programs, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs; private insurance plans; health maintenance organizations; and preferred provider organizations. In general, employers and third-party payors in the United States have become increasingly cost-conscious, with higher deductibles imposed or encouraged in many medical plans. The imposition of higher deductibles tends to inhibit individuals from seeking the same level of medical treatments as they might seek if the costs were lower, particularly in the medical diagnostic portion of our business. Third-party payors have also increased utilization controls related to the use of our products by healthcare providers. Furthermore, there is no uniform policy on reimbursement among third-party payors, and we cannot be sure that third-party payors will reimburse our customers for procedures using our products at a level that will enable us to achieve or maintain adequate sales and price levels for our products. Without adequate support from third-party payors, the market for our products may be limited.Once Medicare has made a decision to provide reimbursement for a given treatment, these reimbursement rates are generally reviewed and adjusted by Medicare annually. Private third-party payors, although independent from Medicare, sometimes use portions of Medicare reimbursement policies and payment amounts in making their own reimbursement decisions. As a result, decisions by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") to reimburse for a treatment, or changes to Medicare’s reimbursement policies or reductions in payment amounts with respect to a treatment sometimes extend to third-party payor reimbursement policies and amounts for that treatment. We have seen our customers’ decision-making process complicated by 30the uncertainty surrounding Medicare reimbursement rates for radiotherapy and radiosurgery in the United States. From time to time, CMS and third-party payors may review and modify the factors upon which they rely to determine appropriate levels of reimbursement for cancer treatments. For example, CMS and third-party payors have begun to focus on the comparative effectiveness of radiation therapy versus other methods of cancer treatment, including surgery, and could modify reimbursement rates based on the results of comparative effectiveness studies. In addition, discussions relating to the Affordable Care Act have included the possibility for bundled reimbursement payments and ACOs. Any significant cuts in reimbursement rates or changes in reimbursement methodology or administration for radiotherapy, radiosurgery, proton therapy or brachytherapy, or concerns or proposals regarding further cuts or changes in methodology or administration, could further increase uncertainty, influence our customers’ decisions, reduce demand for our products, cause customers to cancel orders and have a material adverse effect on results of operations, financial position and stock price. In April of 2015, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (“MACRA”) was signed into law, which made numerous changes to Medicare, Medicaid, and other healthcare related programs. These changes include new systems for establishing the annual updates to payment rates for physicians’ services in Medicare. MACRA is effective beginning January 1, 2017. Our business may be significantly affected by MACRA and any changes in reimbursement policies and other legislative initiatives aimed at or having the effect of reducing healthcare costs associated with Medicare and other government healthcare programs.Foreign governments also have their own healthcare reimbursement systems and there can be no assurance that adequate reimbursement will be made available with respect to our products under any foreign reimbursement system. WE ARE SUBJECT TO FEDERAL, STATE AND FOREIGN LAWS GOVERNING OUR BUSINESS PRACTICES WHICH, IF VIOLATED, COULD RESULT IN SUBSTANTIAL PENALTIES. ADDITIONALLY, CHALLENGES TO OR INVESTIGATION INTO OUR PRACTICES COULD CAUSE ADVERSE PUBLICITY AND BE COSTLY TO RESPOND TO AND THUS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS Laws and ethical rules governing interactions with healthcare providers. The Medicare and Medicaid “anti-kickback” laws, and similar state laws, prohibit payments or other remuneration that is intended to induce hospitals, physicians or others either to refer patients or to purchase, lease or order, or arrange for or recommend the purchase, lease or order of healthcare products or services for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws affect our sales, marketing and other promotional activities by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians or other potential purchasers of our products. They particularly impact how we structure our sales offerings, including discount practices, customer support, education and training programs, physician consulting, research grants and other service arrangements. These laws are broadly written, and it is often difficult to determine precisely how these laws will be applied to specific circumstances. Federal and state “false claims” laws generally prohibit knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid or other government payors that are false or fraudulent, or for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Although we do not submit claims directly to payors, manufacturers can be, and have been, held liable under these laws if they are deemed to “cause” the submission of false or fraudulent claims by providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers, or through certain other activities, including promoting products for uses not approved or cleared by the FDA, which is called off-label promotion. Violating “anti-kickback” and “false claims” laws can result in civil and criminal penalties, which can be substantial, and potential mandatory or discretionary exclusion from healthcare programs for noncompliance. Even an unsuccessful challenge or investigation into our practices could cause adverse publicity, and be costly to defend, and thus could harm our business and results of operations. Additionally, several recently enacted state and federal laws, including laws in Massachusetts and Vermont, and the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, now require, among other things, extensive tracking and maintenance of databases regarding the disclosure of equity ownership and payments to physicians, healthcare providers and hospitals. These laws require us to implement the necessary and costly infrastructure to track and report certain payments to healthcare providers. Failure to comply with these new tracking and reporting laws could subject us to significant civil monetary penalties. We are subject to similar laws in foreign countries where we conduct business. For example, within the EU, the control of unlawful marketing activities is a matter of national law in each of the member states. The member states of the EU closely monitor perceived unlawful marketing activity by companies. We could face civil, criminal and administrative sanctions if any member state determines that we have breached our obligations under its national laws. Industry associations also closely monitor the activities of member companies. If these organizations or authorities name us as having breached our obligations under their regulations, rules or standards, our reputation would suffer and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. 31Anti-corruption laws and regulations. We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-corruption laws, and similar laws in foreign countries, such as the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, which became effective on July 1, 2011, and the Law “On the Fundamentals of Health Protection in the Russian Federation,” which became effective in January 2012. In general, there is a worldwide trend to strengthen anticorruption laws and their enforcement, and the healthcare industry and medical equipment manufacturers have been particular targets of these investigation and enforcement efforts. Any violation of these laws by us or our agents or distributors could create a substantial liability for us, subject our officers and directors to personal liability and also cause a loss of reputation in the market. Transparency International’s 2015 Corruption Perceptions Index measured the degree to which public sector corruption is perceived to exist in 168 countries/territories around the world, and found that nearly sixty-seven percent of the countries in the index, including many that we consider to be high growth areas for our products, such as China, India, Russia and Brazil, scored below 50, on a scale from 100 (very clean) to 0 (highly corrupt). We currently operate in many countries where the public sector is perceived as being more or highly corrupt. Our strategic business plans include expanding our business in regions and countries that are rated as higher risk for corruption activity by Transparency International. Becoming familiar with and implementing the infrastructure necessary to comply with laws, rules and regulations applicable to new business activities and mitigating and protecting against corruption risks could be quite costly. In addition, failure by us or our agents or distributors to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could delay our expansion into high-growth markets and could adversely affect our business. This notwithstanding, we will inevitably do more business, directly and potentially indirectly, in countries where the public sector is perceived to be more or highly corrupt and will be engaging in business in more countries perceived to be more or highly corrupt. Increased business in higher risk countries could subject us and our officers and directors to increased scrutiny and increased liability. In addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. For example, in June 2015, one of our foreign subsidiaries was charged by the Department for Investigation and Penal Action of Lisbon with alleged improper activities relating to three tenders of medical equipment in Portugal during the period of 2003 to 2009. We previously undertook an internal investigation of this matter and voluntarily disclosed the results of this investigation to the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. After the Company requested a judicial review available under Portuguese criminal procedure processes as to whether or not such charges are proper under Portuguese law, the matter was resolved and definitively dismissed, subject to a 30-day probation period which began on October 21, 2016, with no adverse findings or charges against the Company. Any such proceeding results in costs and management distraction, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. An adverse outcome under any such proceeding, investigation or audit could subject us to fines, or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Competition laws. Due to our competitive position in many jurisdictions, compliance with competition laws is of increased importance to us. Regulatory authorities under whose laws we operate may have enforcement powers that can subject us to sanctions, and can impose changes or conditions in the way we conduct our business. In addition, an increasing number of jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to seek damages asserting claims of anti-competitive conduct. Increased government scrutiny of our actions or enforcement or private rights of action could adversely affect our business or damage our reputation. In addition, we have conducted, and in the future expect to conduct, internal investigations or face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies, which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or criminal or other penalties, which could adversely affect our business and financial results.PRODUCT DEFECTS OR MISUSE MAY RESULT IN MATERIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY OR PROFESSIONAL ERRORS AND OMISSIONS CLAIMS, LITIGATION, INVESTIGATION BY REGULATORY AUTHORITIES OR PRODUCT RECALLS THAT COULD HARM OUR FUTURE REVENUES AND REQUIRE US TO PAY MATERIAL UNINSURED CLAIMS Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacture, sale, installation, servicing and support of medical devices and other devices that deliver radiation. Because our products are involved in the intentional delivery of radiation to the human body and other situations where people may come into contact with radiation (for example, when our security and inspection products are being used to scan cargo), the collection and storage of patient treatment data for medical analysis and treatment delivery, the planning of radiation treatment and diagnostic imaging of the human body, and the diagnoses of medical problems, the possibility for significant injury and/or death exists to the intended or unintended recipient of the delivery. Our medical products operate within our customers’ facilities and network systems, and under quality assurance procedures established by the facility that ultimately result in the delivery of radiation to patients. Human and other errors or accidents may arise from the operation of our products in complex environments, particularly with products from other vendors, where interoperability or data sharing protocol may not be optimized even though the equipment or system operates according to specifications. As a result, we may face substantial liability to patients, our customers and others for damages 32resulting from the faulty, or allegedly faulty, design, manufacture, installation, servicing, support, testing or interoperability of our products with other products, or their misuse or failure. In addition, third party service providers could fail to adequately perform their obligations, which could subject us to further liability. We may also be subject to claims for property damages or economic loss related to or resulting from any errors or defects in our products, or the installation, servicing and support of our products. Any accident or mistreatment could subject us to legal costs, litigation, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, whether or not our products or services were a factor. In connection with our products that collect and store patient treatment data, we may be liable for the loss or misuse of such private data, if those products fail or are otherwise defective. Product liability actions are subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. For these and other reasons, we may choose to settle product liability claims against us, regardless of their actual merit. If a product liability action were finally determined against us, it could result in significant damages, including the possibility of punitive damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Adverse publicity regarding any accidents or mistreatments, even ones that do not involve our products, could cause patients to be less receptive to radiotherapy or radiosurgery treatments, to question the efficacy of radiation therapy and radiosurgery and to seek other methods of treatment. Adverse publicity could also result in additional regulation of radiation therapy, radiosurgery, medical devices or the healthcare industry in general, and adversely affect our ability to promote, manufacture and sell our products. Both adverse publicity and increased regulatory activities could negatively impact our business and results of operations. In addition, if a product we design or manufacture were defective (whether due to design, labeling or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product or other reasons) or found to be so by a competent regulatory authority, we may be required to correct or recall the product and notify other regulatory authorities. The adverse publicity resulting from a correction or recall, however imposed, could damage our reputation and cause customers to review and potentially terminate their relationships with us. A product correction or recall could consume management time and have an adverse financial impact on our business, including incurring substantial costs, losing revenues and accruing losses under GAAP. We maintain limited product liability insurance coverage and currently self-insure professional liability/errors and omissions liability. Our product liability insurance policies are expensive and have high deductible amounts and self-insured retentions. Our insurance coverage may also prove to be inadequate, and future policies may not be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts, if at all. If a material claim is successfully brought against us relating to a self-insured liability or a liability that is in excess of our insurance coverage, or for which insurance coverage is denied or limited, we could have to pay substantial damages, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. AS A STRATEGY TO ASSIST OUR VPT SALES EFFORTS, WE MAY PARTICIPATE IN PROJECT FINANCING OR OFFER EXTENDED PAYMENT TERMS, WHICH MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS We have provided financing for the construction and start-up operations of the Scripps Proton Therapy Center, MPTC and the New York Proton Center, and we may provide or be requested to provide financing to other potential VPT customers in the future. As of September 30, 2016, we had loaned $95.3 million, $40.7 million and $18.5 million to CPTC, MPTC and MM Proton I, LLC, respectively. Providing such financing could adversely affect our financial results, since we cannot provide assurance that a center will be completed on time or within budget, that the center can or will generate sufficient patient volumes and revenues to support scheduled loan payments or to facilitate a refinancing, or that the borrower will have the financial means to pay off any financing at maturity. In addition, in connection with our financing of the Scripps Proton Therapy Center, we cannot provide any assurance that any additional portion of our loan can be syndicated to third parties, or that the loan facility can be successfully refinanced upon the maturity of the loan. In November 2015, we and the other lenders of the CPTC loan for the Scripps Proton Therapy Center agreed to forbear principal and interest payments until April 2017, subject to certain extensions. At the end of fiscal year 2016, even though patient volumes continued to increase, CPTC was not in compliance with a patient volume covenant under the forbearance agreement, which would allow the lenders to call the loan or cease further funding under the loan agreement. If a borrower does not have the financial means to pay off its debts, and if we cannot recover the amounts due us from the sale of any collateral, we may be required to write-off all, or a portion of the loan, which would adversely affect our financial results. In addition, in some circumstances we offer longer or extended payment terms for qualified customers in VPT or our other businesses. Many of the areas where we offer such longer or extended payment terms have under-developed legal systems for securing debt and enforcing collection of debt. As of September 30, 2016, customer contracts with remaining terms of more than one year amounted to approximately six percent of our net accounts receivable balance. While we qualify customers to whom we offer longer or extended payment terms, their financial positions may change adversely over the longer time period given for payment. Concerns over continued economic instability could also make it more difficult for us to collect outstanding receivables. This may result in an increase in payment defaults and uncollectible accounts, or could cause us to increase our bad 33debt expense, which would adversely affect our net earnings. In addition, longer or extended payment terms could impact the timing of our revenue recognition, and they have in the past and may in the future result in an increase in our days sales outstanding and thus a decrease in our cash flow from operations. THE FINANCIAL RESULTS OF OUR PARTICLE THERAPY BUSINESS MAY FLUCTUATE AND BE UNPREDICTABLE The development of our VPT business enables us to offer products for delivering image-guided, intensity-modulated proton therapy for the treatment of cancer. Our success in this area will depend upon the widespread awareness, acceptance and adoption by the oncology market of proton therapy systems for the treatment of cancer. However, this technology has not been widely adopted and future developments may not be adopted as quickly as technological developments in more traditional areas of radiation therapy. Since proton therapy projects are generally large, highly customized and more complex than projects in our Oncology Systems radiotherapy business, planning for these projects takes more of our time and uses more of our resources than projects in our Oncology Systems radiotherapy business. Many of the components used in proton therapy equipment require long lead times, which may require an increase in our inventory levels. This may cause fluctuations in the operating results of VPT that may make it difficult to predict our results and to compare our results from period to period. The construction of a proton therapy facility requires significant capital investment and may involve complex project financing. Consequently, this business is vulnerable to deterioration in general economic and market conditions. The worldwide economic downturn that began in 2008 resulted in a contraction in credit markets. This has made and may continue to make it more difficult for potential customers of this business to find appropriate financing for large proton therapy projects, which could cause them to delay or cancel their projects, or request that we participate in financing arrangements or make payment concessions in their agreements with us, which could impact our operating results. We have participated in the financing of several proton therapy projects, including the Scripps Proton Therapy Center, Maryland Proton Therapy Center and The New York Proton Center, through the extension of loans, loan commitments and deferred equipment payments. If we are unable to collect amounts owing to us under these arrangements it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the event that one or more proton therapy projects to which we have provided financing were to default under project financing arrangements and the project finance lenders were to foreclose on the project, it could harm our reputation or the reputation of proton therapy projects generally and make it more difficult for future proton therapy projects to obtain financing. Challenges or delays in obtaining financing or commencing treatment could also impact the viability of one or more of our customers as a going concern. Changes in reimbursement rates for proton therapy treatments, or uncertainty regarding these reimbursement rates, such as we experienced in 2012 with the reductions to reimbursement rates for hospital based proton therapy centers in the United States by CMS, can affect growth or demand for our VPT products and services. We compete for many proton therapy system sales through tenders, where parties compete on price and other factors. Many companies sell their products at a lower price than we do. If we are unable to lower our prices or our customers are not willing to pay for additional features and functionality that we may provide, there is a risk we will lose sales, and if we lower our prices to gain business, our margins and other financial results may suffer. Further, the award of certain proton therapy system orders may be subject to challenge by third parties, which can make these orders more unpredictable than orders for other products. Because an order for a proton therapy system can be relatively large and complex, the sales and customer decision cycles for proton therapy projects may take several years, and an order in one fiscal period (or the cancellation of an order as a result of bid challenge or otherwise) will cause our gross orders and revenues to vary significantly, cause fluctuations in the operating results of VPT that may make it difficult to predict our results and compare our results from period to period. We expect that a limited number of customers will account for a substantial portion of VPT’s business for the foreseeable future. In instances where one customer undertakes multiple proton center projects, an adverse event with respect to one project could cause an adverse event with respect to the other projects, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial position.Our estimates as to future operating results include certain assumptions about the results of VPT’s business. If we are incorrect in our assumptions, our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. It is possible that VPT could perform significantly below our expectations due to a number of factors that cannot be predicted with certainty, including future market conditions, revenue growth rates, and operating margins. These factors could adversely impact VPT’s ability to meet its projected results, which could cause a portion or all of the goodwill of VPT to become impaired. As of September 30, 2016, the goodwill of VPT was $49.8 million. If we determine that VPT’s goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to record a charge that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in such period. 34OUR PARTICLE THERAPY BUSINESS MAY SUBJECT US TO INCREASED RISK AND POTENTIAL LIABILITY VPT’s business may subject us to increased risk and potential liability. For example, because proton therapy projects are large in scale and require detailed project planning, failure to deliver or delays in delivering on our commitments could result in greater than expected liabilities, as we could be required to indemnify business partners and customers for losses suffered or incurred if we are unable to deliver our products in accordance with the terms of customer contracts. Additionally, customers have in the past requested and may in the future request that the systems vendor, as the primary technology provider, provide guarantees for and suffer penalties in relation to the overall construction project, as well as in some situations participate in or provide project financing for the project. Since the cost of each proton therapy center project will often exceed $100 million, the amount of potential liability and potential for financial loss would likely be higher than the levels historically assumed by us for our traditional radiation therapy business and may also exceed the project’s value. Insurance covering these contingencies may be unobtainable or expensive. If we cannot reasonably mitigate or eliminate these contingencies or risks, our ability to competitively bid upon proton center projects will be negatively impacted or we may be required to assume material amounts of potential liability, all of which may have adverse consequences to us. In addition, we have encountered and may encounter additional challenges in the commercialization of the proton therapy products, which may increase our research and development costs and delay the introduction of our products. These and other unanticipated events could adversely affect our business and make our results of operations unpredictable. WE COMPETE IN HIGHLY COMPETITIVE MARKETS, AND WE MAY LOSE MARKET SHARE TO COMPANIES WITH GREATER RESOURCES OR THE ABILITY TO DEVELOP MORE EFFECTIVE TECHNOLOGIES, OR WE COULD BE FORCED TO REDUCE OUR PRICES  The markets for radiation therapy equipment and software are characterized by rapidly evolving technology, intense competition and pricing pressure. New competitors may enter our markets, and we have encountered new competitors as we have entered new markets such as radiosurgery, VMAT and proton therapy. Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. To compete successfully, we must provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, in a complete package of products and services, and do so ahead of our competitors. As our Oncology Systems products are generally sold on a basis of total value to the customer, our business may suffer when purchase decisions are based solely upon price, which can happen if hospitals and clinics give purchasing decision authority to group purchasing organizations. The shift in the proportion of sales within our international region towards emerging market countries, which typically have purchased less complex, lower-priced products compared to more developed countries, and which usually have stiffer price competition, could also adversely impact our results of operations. New competitors may also delay customer purchasing decisions as customers evaluate the products of these competitors along with ours, potentially extending our sales cycle and adversely affecting our gross orders and revenues. In Imaging Components, we often compete with companies that have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Some of the major diagnostic imaging systems companies, which are the primary OEM customers for our X-ray components, also manufacture X-ray components, including X-ray tubes, for use in their own imaging systems products. We must compete with these in-house manufacturing operations for business from their affiliated companies. In addition, we compete against other stand-alone, independent X-ray tube manufacturers who compete with us for both the OEM business of major diagnostic imaging equipment manufacturers and the independent servicing business for X-ray tubes. The market for flat panel detectors is also very competitive. As a result, we must have an advantage in one or more significant areas, which may include lower product cost, better product quality and/or superior technology and/or performance. With our security and inspection products, we compete with other OEM suppliers, primarily outside of the United States. The market for our X-ray tube and flat panel products used for nondestructive testing in industrial applications is small and highly fragmented. The market for proton therapy products is still developing and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and pricing pressure. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on our ability to lower our product costs, develop and provide technically superior, proven products that deliver more precise, cost-effective, high quality clinical outcomes, including integration of technologies such as our On-Board Imager (“OBI”) for IGRT and our motion management technologies. In each of our business segments, existing competitors’ actions and new entrants may adversely affect our ability to compete. These competitors could develop technologies and products that are more effective than those we currently use or produce or that could render our products obsolete or noncompetitive. In addition, the timing of our competitors’ introduction of products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. Some competitors offer specialized products that provide, or may be perceived by customers to provide, a marketing advantage over our mainstream cancer treatment products. Also, some of our competitors may not be subject to the same standards, regulatory and/or other legal 35requirements that we are subject to, and therefore, they could have a competitive advantage in developing, manufacturing and marketing products and services. Any inability to develop, gain regulatory approval for and supply commercial quantities of competitive products to the market as quickly and effectively as our competitors could limit market acceptance of our products and reduce our sales. In addition, some of our smaller competitors could be acquired by larger companies that have greater financial strength, which could enable them to compete more aggressively. Our competitors could also acquire some of our suppliers or distributors, which could disrupt these supply or distribution arrangements and result in less predictable and reduced revenues in our businesses. Any of these competitive factors could negatively affect our pricing, sales, revenues, market share and gross margins and our ability to maintain or increase our operating margins. OPEN ARCHITECTURE IS BECOMING INCREASINGLY IMPORTANT, AND SALES OF OUR PRODUCTS COULD FALL IF WE FAIL TO ACHIEVE THIS As radiation oncology treatment becomes more complex, our customers are increasingly focusing on ease-of-use and interconnectivity. Our equipment and software are highly sophisticated and a high level of training and education is required in order to use them competently and safely-requirements made even more important because they work together within integrated environments. We have directed substantial product development efforts into (i) increasing the interconnectivity of our products for more seamless operation within a system, (ii) making our software products easier to use and (iii) reducing setup and treatment times to increase patient throughput. We have emphasized an “open systems” approach that allows customers to “mix and match” our individual products, incorporate products from other manufacturers, share information with other systems or products and use the equipment for offering various methods of radiation and chemotherapy treatment. We have done this based on our belief that such interconnectivity will increase the acceptance and adoption of IMRT, IGRT and VMAT and will stimulate demand for our products. There are competitive “closed-ended” dedicated-use systems, however, that place simplicity of use ahead of flexibility. If we have misjudged the importance to our customers of maintaining an “open systems” approach, or if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to increase interconnectivity, enhance ease-of-use and reduce setup and treatment times, our revenues could suffer. Obtaining and maintaining interoperability and compatibility can be costly and time-consuming. While we try to use standard published protocols for communication with widely-used oncology products manufactured by other companies, if we cannot do this, we may need to develop individual interfaces so that our products communicate correctly with the other company products. When other companies modify the design or functionality of their products, this may affect their compatibility with our products. In addition, when we improve our products, customers may be reluctant to adopt our new technology due to potential interoperability issues. For example, a clinic may be unwilling to implement one of our new technologies because its third-party software does not yet communicate correctly with our new product. Our ability to obtain compatibility with products of other companies may depend on our ability to obtain adequate information from them regarding their products. In many cases, these third parties are our competitors and may schedule their product changes and delay their release of relevant information to place us at a competitive disadvantage. When we modify our products to make them interoperable or compatible with third-party products, we may be required to obtain additional regulatory clearances. This process is costly and could delay our ability to release our products for commercial use. It is also possible that, despite our best efforts, we may not be able to make our products interoperable or compatible with widely used third-party products or may only be able to do so at a prohibitive expense, making our products less attractive or more costly to our customers. PROTECTING OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CAN BE COSTLY AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO MAINTAIN LICENSED RIGHTS, AND IN EITHER CASE OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION WOULD BE HARMED IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO DO SO We file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. We cannot be sure, however, that our current patents, the claims allowed under our current patents, or patents for technologies licensed to us will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors. Issued patents owned by, or licensed to, us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or the rights granted under the patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. We also cannot be sure that patents will be issued from any of our pending or future patent applications. Asserting our patent rights against others in litigation or other legal proceedings is costly and diverts managerial resources. For example, during September and October 2015, we filed several complaints in the U.S. and foreign courts and the U.S. International Trade Commission against Elekta AB and its subsidiaries alleging infringement of various patents relating to certain aspects of cone beam imaging, cone-beam gantries, volumetric modulated arc therapy, and combined magnetic resonance imaging-linear accelerator systems. These legal proceedings are ongoing and, although there have been interim court rulings in certain jurisdictions, there have been no definite outcomes to date. An unfavorable outcome in these proceedings or in any other such litigation or proceedings could harm us. In addition, we may not be able to detect patent infringement by others or may lose our competitive position in the market before we are able to do so. 36We also rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and other laws, and contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title (including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties), to protect our proprietary and other confidential rights. These protections may prove inadequate, since agreements may still be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. In the event that our proprietary or confidential information is misappropriated, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. We have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that are maintained and enforced to provide customer recognition for our products in the marketplace, but unauthorized third parties may still use them. We also have agreements with third parties that license to us certain patented or proprietary technologies. In some cases products with substantial revenues may depend on these license rights. If we were to lose the rights to license these technologies, or our costs to license these technologies were to materially increase, our business would suffer. THIRD PARTIES MAY CLAIM WE ARE INFRINGING THEIR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, AND WE COULD SUFFER SIGNIFICANT LITIGATION OR LICENSING EXPENSES OR BE PREVENTED FROM SELLING OUR PRODUCTS There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the industries in which we compete. Our competitors, like companies in many high technology businesses, continually review other companies’ activities for possible conflicts with their own intellectual property rights. In addition, non-practicing entities may review our activities for conflicts with their patent rights. Determining whether a product infringes a third party’s intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual issues, and the outcome of this type of litigation is often uncertain. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may not be aware of intellectual property rights of others that relate to our products, services or technologies. From time to time, we have received notices from third parties asserting infringement and we have been subject to lawsuits alleging infringement of third-party patent or other intellectual property rights. For example, in September 2015, Elekta Ltd. and William Beaumont Hospital served us with a complaint alleging infringement of three patents related to certain aspects of cone beam imaging in conjunction with radiotherapy. In February 2016, Elekta Ltd. filed several complaints in U.S. and foreign courts alleging infringement of certain patents related to linear accelerator control systems and treatment planning. In October 2016, Elekta Ltd. filed a complaint in the United Kingdom alleging infringement of a further patent related to linear accelerator control systems and treatment planning, and added a patent relating to the same subject matter to its existing U.S. suit filed in February 2016. These lawsuits are ongoing, and we are not able to predict their ultimate outcome. We may incur substantial costs and expend significant management resources defending against these claims or prosecuting our claims and our defense of these claims or our prosecution of claims against Elekta may ultimately not be successful. Any dispute regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. We may not prevail in a dispute. We do not maintain insurance for intellectual property infringement, so costs of defense, whether or not we are successful in defending an infringement claim, will be borne by us and could be significant. If we are unsuccessful in defending or appealing an infringement claim, we may be subject to significant damages and our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If actual liabilities significantly exceed our estimates regarding potential liabilities, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may also be subject to injunctions against development and sale of our products, the effect of which could be to materially reduce our revenues. Furthermore, a third party claiming infringement may not be willing to license its rights to us, and even if a third party rights holder is willing to do so, the amounts we might be required to pay under the associated royalty or license agreement could be significant. As such, we could decide to alter our business strategy or voluntarily cease the allegedly infringing actions rather than face litigation or pay a royalty, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations.UNFAVORABLE RESULTS OF LEGAL PROCEEDINGS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS From time to time, we are a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings, claims and government inspections or investigations and other legal matters, both inside and outside the United States, arising in the ordinary course of our business or otherwise. We are currently involved in various legal proceedings and claims, including product liability claims and intellectual property claims (such as the current litigation with Elekta Ltd. and William Beaumont Hospital), that have not yet been fully resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Legal proceedings are often lengthy, taking place over a period of years with interim motions or judgments subject to multiple levels of review (such as appeals or rehearings) before the outcome is final. Litigation is subject to significant uncertainty and may be expensive, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. For these and other reasons, we may choose to settle legal proceedings and claims, regardless of their actual merit. 37If a legal proceeding were finally resolved against us, it could result in significant compensatory damages, and in certain circumstances punitive or trebled damages, disgorgement of revenue or profits, remedial corporate measures or injunctive relief imposed on us. If our existing insurance does not cover the amount or types of damages awarded, or if other resolution or actions taken as a result of the legal proceeding were to restrain our ability to market one or more of our material products or services, our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In addition, legal proceedings, and any adverse resolution thereof, can result in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation, which could adversely impact our business. THE LOSS OF A SUPPLIER OR ANY INABILITY TO OBTAIN SUPPLIES OF IMPORTANT COMPONENTS COULD RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE PRODUCTS, CAUSE DELAYS IN OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER PRODUCTS, OR SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE OUR COSTS We obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers or from a single source supplier, such as the radioactive sources for high dose afterloaders, klystrons for linear accelerators, transistor arrays and cesium iodide coatings for flat panel detectors, and specialized integrated circuits, X-ray tube targets, housings, glass frames and various other components; and radiofrequency components, magnets and gantry hardware for proton therapy systems. In addition, following the planned separation of our Imaging Components business, Varex Imaging Corporation will be the sole source supplier of tubes and panels used in certain of our products. If we lose any of these suppliers, if their operations were substantially interrupted, or if any of them failed to meet performance or quality specifications, we may be required to obtain and qualify one or more replacement suppliers. Such an event may then also require us to redesign or modify our products to incorporate new parts and/or further require us to obtain clearance, qualification or certification of these products by the FDA or obtain other applicable regulatory approvals in other countries. Events like these could significantly increase costs for the affected product and likely cause material delays in delivery of that and other related products. Although we have insurance to protect against business interruption loss, this insurance coverage may not be adequate or continue to remain available on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, some of our single-source suppliers provide components for some of our rapidly growing product lines. Manufacturing capacity limitations of any of our suppliers or other inability of these suppliers to meet increasing demand could adversely affect us, resulting in curtailed growth opportunities for our affected product lines. Shortage of, and greater demand for, components and subassemblies could also increase manufacturing costs if the supply/demand imbalance increases the price of the components and subassemblies. Disruptions or loss of any of our limited- or sole-sourced components or subassemblies or the capacity limitations of the suppliers for these components or subassemblies, including the ones referenced above, could adversely affect our business and financial results and could damage our customer relationships. A SHORTAGE OR CHANGE IN SOURCE OF RAW MATERIALS COULD RESTRICT OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE PRODUCTS, CAUSE DELAYS, OR SIGNIFICANTLY INCREASE OUR COST OF GOODS We rely upon the supplies of certain raw materials such as tungsten, lead, iridium and copper for Oncology Systems and security and inspection products; copper, lead, tungsten, rhenium, molybdenum zirconium, and various high grades of steel alloy for X-ray tubes, and high-grade steel, high-grade copper and iron for VPT. Worldwide demand, availability and pricing of these raw materials have been volatile, and we expect that availability and pricing will continue to fluctuate in the future. If supplies are restricted or become unavailable or if prices increase, this could constrain our manufacturing of affected products, reduce our profit margins or otherwise adversely affect our business. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC has promulgated rules regarding disclosure of the presence in a company’s products of certain metals, known as “conflict minerals,” which are metals mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries, as well as procedures regarding a manufacturer’s efforts to identify the sourcing of those minerals from this region. Complying with these rules requires investigative efforts, which has and will continue to cause us to incur associated costs, and could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products, or result in process or manufacturing modifications, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. CONSOLIDATION AMONG OUR ONCOLOGY SYSTEMS CUSTOMERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES OF ONCOLOGY PRODUCTS We have seen and may continue to see some consolidation among our customers in our Oncology Systems business, as hospitals and clinics combine through mergers and acquisitions, and as they join group purchasing organizations or affiliated enterprises. In addition, we have seen and may continue to see integration of equipment and information systems among hospitals as they consolidate their networks. As customers consolidate and/or integrate, the volume of product sales to these customers might decrease. Alternatively, order size may increase, as what were previously more than one customer combine orders as one entity, or as groups of organizations combine their purchases. As a result, as orders increase in size and require 38more customer approvals, the purchasing cycle for our Oncology Systems products could lengthen. Both increased order size and extended purchasing cycles could cause our gross orders to be more volatile and less predictable. In addition, some customers appear to be developing new partnerships across clinical specialties to prepare for the possibility of operating in an ACO environment and the possibility of bundled reimbursement payments. Group purchasing organizations often focus on pricing as the determinant in making purchase decisions. A reduction in gross orders could affect the level of future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and the price of VMS common stock. WE SELL OUR IMAGING COMPONENTS TO A LIMITED NUMBER OF OEM CUSTOMERS, MANY OF WHICH ARE ALSO OUR COMPETITORS, AND A REDUCTION IN BUSINESS OR INABILITY TO PROPERLY FORECAST SALES BY ONE OR MORE OF THESE CUSTOMERS COULD REDUCE OUR SALES We sell our X-ray tube products to a limited number of OEM customers, many of which are also our competitors with in-house X-ray tube manufacturing operations. If these customers manufacture a greater percentage of their components in-house or otherwise lower external sourcing costs, such as we have begun to see as a result of the recent strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, we could experience reductions in purchasing volume by, or loss of, one or more of these customers. In the event of such a reduction or loss it could have a material adverse effect on our Imaging Components business. In addition, if any of our customers modify their business operations in ways that result in a reduction in or the discontinuation of purchases of our imaging components products, or divest business operations to third parties that reduce or discontinue purchasing our imaging components products, it could have a material adverse effect on our Imaging Components business. For example, lower purchases from a customer with higher X-ray tube inventory, due in part to longer tube life, has contributed to recent declines in Imaging Component business revenues. Moreover, economic uncertainties over the past few years, natural disasters and other matters beyond our control have made it difficult for our OEM customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Such economic uncertainties and natural disasters, as well as other factors, have previously impacted our Imaging Components business, resulting in inventory reduction efforts and slowdowns in sales at some of these customers. Similar inventory adjustments and slowdowns in sales could occur in the future. Our agreements for imaging components may contain purchasing estimates that are based on our customers’ historical purchasing patterns, and actual purchasing volumes under the agreements may vary significantly from these estimates. ORDERS FOR OUR SECURITY AND INSPECTION PRODUCTS TEND TO BE UNPREDICTABLE Our Imaging Components business designs, manufactures, sells and services Linatron X-ray accelerators, imaging processing software and image detection products for security and inspection, such as cargo screening at ports and borders and nondestructive examination for a variety of applications, as well as industrial applications. We generally sell security and inspection products to OEMs who incorporate our products into their inspection systems, which are then sold to customs and other government agencies, as well as to commercial organizations in the casting, power, aerospace, chemical, petro-chemical and automotive industries. We believe growth in our security and inspection products will be driven by security cargo screening and border protection needs, as well as by the needs of customs agencies to verify shipments for assessing duties and taxes. Orders for our security and inspection products have been and may continue to be unpredictable as governmental agencies may place large orders with us or our OEM customers in a short time period, and then may not place any orders for a long time period thereafter. Because it is difficult to predict our OEM customer delivery, the actual timing of sales and revenue recognition varies significantly. The market for border protection systems has slowed significantly and end customers, particularly in oil-based economies and war zones in which we have a significant customer base, are delaying system deployments or tenders and have considered moving to alternative sources, resulting in a decline in the demand for security and inspection products which is expected to continue. In addition, demand for our security and inspection products is heavily influenced by U.S. and foreign governmental policies on national and homeland security, border protection and customs revenue activities, which depend upon government budgets and appropriations that are subject to economic conditions, as well as political changes. We have seen customers freeze or dramatically reduce purchases and capital project expenditures, delay projects, or act cautiously as governments around the world wrestle with spending priorities. As economic growth remains sluggish in various jurisdictions and appears to be deteriorating in others, and as concerns about levels of government employment and government debt continue, we expect that these effects will also continue. Furthermore, bid awards in this business may be subject to challenge by third parties, as we have previously encountered with a large government project. These factors make the timing of orders, sales and revenues in this business more unpredictable and could cause volatility in our revenues and earnings, and therefore the price of VMS common stock. 39IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROVIDE THE SIGNIFICANT EDUCATION AND TRAINING REQUIRED FOR THE HEALTHCARE MARKET TO ACCEPT OUR PRODUCTS, OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER In order to achieve market acceptance for our radiation therapy products, we often need to educate physicians about the use of treatment procedures such as IMRT, IGRT, VMAT, SRS, SBRT or proton therapy, overcome physician objections to some of the effects of the product or its related treatment regimen, convince healthcare payors that the benefits of the product and its related treatment process outweigh its costs and help train qualified physicists in the skilled use of the product. For example, the complex and dynamic nature of IMRT and IGRT requires significant education of hospital personnel and physicians regarding the benefits of and practices associated with IMRT and IGRT. Further, the complexity and high cost of proton therapy requires similar significant education, as well as education regarding construction and facility requirements. We have devoted and will continue to devote significant resources on marketing and educational efforts to create awareness of IMRT, IGRT, VMAT stereotactic radiotherapy, SRS, SBRT and proton therapy generally, to encourage the acceptance and adoption of our products for these technologies and to promote the safe and effective use of our products in compliance with their operating procedures. Future products may not gain adequate market acceptance among physicians, patients and healthcare payors, even if we spend significant time and expense educating them about these products. OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO HIRE AND RETAIN QUALIFIED PERSONNEL Our future success depends, to a great degree, on our ability to retain, attract, expand, integrate and train our management team and other key personnel, such as qualified engineering, service, sales, marketing and other staff. We compete for key personnel with other medical equipment and software manufacturers and technology companies, as well as universities and research institutions. Because this competition is intense, compensation-related costs could increase significantly if the supply of qualified personnel decreases or demand increases. If we are unable to hire and train qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain or expand our business. Additionally, if we are unable to retain key personnel, we may not be able to replace them readily or on terms that are reasonable, which also could hurt our business. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO MATCH OUR MANUFACTURING CAPACITY WITH DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS MAY SUFFER Many of our products have a long production cycle, and we need to anticipate demand for our products in order to ensure adequate manufacturing or testing capacity. If we are unable to anticipate demand and our manufacturing or testing capacity does not keep pace with product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which may negatively impact our financial results and overall business. Conversely, if demand for our products decreases, the fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity may harm our financial results. WE MAY NOT REALIZE EXPECTED BENEFITS FROM ACQUISITIONS OF OR INVESTMENTS IN NEW BUSINESSES, PRODUCTS, OR TECHNOLOGIES, WHICH COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS We need to grow our businesses in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may decide to grow our business through the acquisition of complementary businesses, products or technologies rather than through internal development. For example, during fiscal year 2014, we acquired certain assets of Velocity and Transpire, during fiscal year 2015, we acquired Claymount and a majority interest in MeVis, and during 2016 we acquired the radiotherapy business of Candela. Identifying suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to identify suitable candidates or successfully complete identified acquisitions. In addition, completing an acquisition can divert our management and key personnel from our current business operations, which could harm our business and affect our financial results. Even if we complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate newly acquired organizations, products, technologies or employees into our operations, or may not fully realize some of the expected synergies. Integrating an acquisition can also be expensive and time-consuming, and may strain our resources. It may cost us more to commercialize new products than we originally anticipated, as we experienced with our proton therapy systems, or cause us to increase our expenses related to research and development, either of which could adversely impact our results of operations. In many instances, integrating a new business will also involve implementing or improving internal controls appropriate for a public company into a business that lacks them. It is also possible that an acquisition could increase our risk of litigation, as a third party may be more likely to assert a legal claim following an acquisition because of perceived deeper pockets or perceived greater value of a claim. In addition, we may be unable to retain the employees of acquired companies, or the acquired company’s customers, suppliers, distributors or other partners for a variety of reasons, including the fact that these entities may be our competitors or may have close relationships with our competitors. Failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 40Further, we may find that we need to restructure or divest acquired businesses, or assets of those businesses. Even if we do so, an acquisition may not produce the full efficiencies, growth or benefits we expected. If we decide to sell assets or a business, as we did in fiscal year 2008 with the scientific research instruments business that we acquired as part of our acquisition of ACCEL GmbH, it may be difficult to identify buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. We may be required to dispose of a business at a lower price or on less advantageous terms, or to recognize greater losses, than we had anticipated. If we acquire a business, we allocate the total purchase price to the acquired businesses’ tangible assets and liabilities, identifiable intangible assets and liabilities based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. If we fail to achieve the anticipated growth from an acquisition, or if we decide to sell assets or a business, we may be required to recognize an impairment loss on the write down of our assets and goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, acquisitions can result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or expenses, or other charges, any of which could harm our business and affect our financial results. Additionally, we have investments in privately held companies that are subject to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky, in some instances because the markets for the technologies or products these companies have under development may never materialize or reach expectations. If these companies do not succeed, we could lose some or all of our investment in these companies. For example, in fiscal year 2014, we recorded a charge relating to the impairment of a portion of our equity investment in a privately-held company when we became aware of certain indicators of impairment.WE MAY FACE ADDITIONAL RISKS FROM THE ACQUISITION OR DEVELOPMENT OF NEW LINES OF BUSINESS From time to time, we may acquire or develop new lines of business, as we did with particle therapy. There are substantial risks and uncertainties associated with new lines of business, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. Risks include developing knowledge of and experience in the new business, recruiting market professionals, increasing research and development expenditures, and developing and capitalizing on new relationships with experienced market participants. This may mean significant investment and involvement of our senior management to acquire or develop, then integrate, the business into our operations. Timelines for integration of new businesses may not be achieved and price and profitability targets may not prove feasible, as new products can carry lower gross margins than existing products. External factors, such as compliance with regulations, competitive alternatives, and shifting market preferences, may also impact whether implementation of a new business will be successful. Failure to manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. WE WORK WITH DISTRIBUTORS FOR SALES IN SOME TERRITORIES, AND LOSING THEM COULD HARM OUR REVENUES IN THAT TERRITORY We have strategic relationships with a number of key distributors, including Siemens AG, for sales and service of our products. If these strategic relationships end and are not replaced, our revenues from product sales in these territories and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR OPERATING RESULTS, INCLUDING QUARTERLY GROSS ORDERS, REVENUES, AND MARGINS, MAY CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO BE VOLATILE, WHICH COULD CAUSE LOSSES FOR OUR STOCKHOLDERS We have experienced and expect in the future to experience fluctuations in our operating results, including gross orders, revenues and margins, from period to period. Drivers of orders include the introduction and timing of announcement of new products or product enhancements by us and our competitors, as well as changes or anticipated changes in third party reimbursement amounts or policies applicable to treatments using our products. The availability of economic stimulus packages or other government funding, or reductions thereof, may also affect timing of customer purchases. Many of our products require significant capital expenditures by our customers. Accordingly, individual product orders can be quite large in dollar amounts, which can extend the customer purchasing cycle. We have experienced this with our IGRT products, and it is especially true with our proton therapy products because of the high cost of the proton therapy equipment and the complexity of project financing. In addition, the budgeting cycles of hospitals and clinics for capital equipment purchases are frequently fixed well in advance. Economic uncertainty also tends to extend the purchasing cycle as potential customers more closely scrutinize and prioritize their capital spending budgets, and analyze appropriate financing alternatives. In addition, some of our more sophisticated equipment, such as IGRT and proton therapy products, requires greater site preparation and longer 41construction cycles, which can delay customer decision cycles and the placement of orders even further. When orders are placed, installation is accomplished and the revenues recognized affect our quarterly results. Once orders are received and booked into backlog, factors that may affect whether these orders become revenue (or are cancelled or deemed dormant and reflected as a reduction in the net order amounts) and the timing of revenue include: •delay in shipment due, for example, to an unanticipated construction delay at a customer location where our products are to be installed, cancellations or reschedulings by customers, extreme weather conditions, natural disasters, port strikes or other labor actions; •a challenge to a bid award for one or more of our products; •delay in the installation and/or acceptance of a product; •failure to satisfy contingencies associated with an order; •the method of accounting used to recognize revenue; •a change in a customer’s financial condition or ability to obtain financing; or •timing of necessary regulatory approvals or authorizations. Our quarterly operating results, including our margins, may also be affected by a number of other factors, including: •changes in our or our competitors’ pricing or discount levels; •changes in foreign currency exchange rates; •changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our various products, including the relative mix between higher margin and lower margin products; •changes in the relative portion of our revenues represented by our international region as a whole, by regions within the overall region, as well as by individual countries (notably those in emerging markets); •fluctuation in our effective tax rate, which may or may not be known to us in advance; •changes to our organizational structure, which may result in restructuring or other charges; •disruptions in the supply or changes in the costs of raw materials, labor, product components or transportation services; •disruptions in our operations, including our ability to manufacture products, caused by events such as earthquakes, fires, floods, terrorist attacks or the outbreak of epidemic diseases; •the impact of changing levels of sales on sole purchasers of certain of our imaging components; •the unfavorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceeding or inquiry, as well as ongoing costs associated with legal proceedings; and •accounting changes and adoption of new accounting pronouncements. Because many of our operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of these expenses are fixed for the short term, a small variation in the timing of revenue recognition can cause significant variations in operating results from quarter to quarter. Our overall gross margin may also be impacted by the gross margin of our proton therapy products, which presently carry lower gross margins than do our traditional radiotherapy products. If our gross margins fall below the expectation of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of VMS common stock would likely decline. We report our gross orders and backlog on a quarterly and annual basis. It is important to understand that, unlike revenues, gross orders and backlog are not governed by GAAP, and are not within the scope of the audit conducted by our independent registered public accounting firm; therefore, investors should not interpret our gross orders or backlog in such a manner. Also, for the reasons set forth above, our gross orders and backlog cannot necessarily be relied upon as accurate predictors of future revenues. Order cancellation or delays in customer purchase decisions or delivery dates will reduce our backlog and future revenues, and we cannot predict if or when orders will mature into revenues. Particularly high levels of cancellations in one period will make it difficult to compare our operating results for other periods. Our gross orders, backlog, revenues and net earnings in one or more future periods may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of VMS common stock would almost certainly decline. 42WE HAVE ENTERED INTO A CREDIT FACILITY AGREEMENT THAT RESTRICTS CERTAIN ACTIVITIES, AND FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THIS AGREEMENT MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS, LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL POSITION We maintain a credit facility with debt outstanding that contains restrictive financial covenants, including financial covenants that require us to comply with specified financial ratios. We may have to curtail some of our operations to comply with these covenants. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants that could restrict our operating and financing activities. These provisions limit our ability to, among other things, incur future indebtedness, contingent obligations or liens, guarantee indebtedness, make certain investments and capital expenditures, sell stock or assets and pay dividends, and consummate certain mergers or acquisitions. Because of the restrictions on our ability to create or assume liens, we may find it difficult to secure additional indebtedness if required. In addition, we have in the past used borrowings under our credit facility to fund the repurchase of VMS shares and we may continue to do so in the future. In the event that we cannot use borrowings under our credit facility to fund share repurchases, whether because we have drawn down the maximum amounts borrowable under our credit facility, to do so would violate covenants in our credit facility, or otherwise, and we do not have access to other cash resources necessary to fund the desired share repurchases, it could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share. Furthermore, if we fail to comply with the credit facility requirements, we may be in default. Upon an event of default, if the credit agreement is not amended or the event of default is not waived, the lender could declare all amounts outstanding, together with accrued interest, to be immediately due and payable. If this happens, we may not be able to make those payments or borrow sufficient funds from alternative sources to make those payments. Even if we were to obtain additional financing, that financing may be on unfavorable terms. CHANGES IN INTERPRETATION OR APPLICATION OF GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR OPERATING RESULTS We prepare our financial statements to conform to GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the SEC and various other regulatory or accounting bodies. A change in interpretations of, or our application of, these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. In addition, when we are required to adopt new accounting standards, our methods of accounting for certain items may change, which could cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period and make it more difficult to compare our financial results to prior periods. As our operations evolve over time, we may introduce new products or new technologies that require us to apply different accounting principles, including ones regarding revenue recognition, than we have applied in past periods. Currently, we recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and proton therapy commissioning contracts and for certain highly customized image detection systems in our Imaging Components business under contract accounting rules, which affects the timing of revenue recognition. We could be required to apply contract accounting rules to other businesses in the future. Under contract accounting rules, the use of the percentage-of-completion method involves considerable use of estimates in determining revenues, costs and profits and in assigning dollar amounts to relevant accounting periods, estimates which must be periodically reviewed and appropriately adjusted. For example, revenues recognized under the percentage-of-completion method are based on contract costs incurred to date compared with total estimated contract costs. In circumstances in which the final outcome of a contract cannot be precisely estimated but a loss on the contract is not expected, we recognize revenues under the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin until more precise estimates can be made. Recognizing revenues using the percentage-of-completion method based on a zero profit margin, as we had done with the revenues associated with the Scripps Proton Therapy Center in the earlier stages of the project, lowers our gross margins and makes it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter. In addition, if we were to recognize revenues for our proton therapy systems and services under either the completed contract method or outside of contract accounting rules altogether, we would defer revenue until a contract is completed or substantially completed. This may cause our results of operations to fluctuate from period to period. If our estimates prove to be inaccurate or circumstances change over time, we would be required to adjust revenues or even record a contract loss in later periods, and our financial results could suffer. In addition, if a loss is expected on a contract under the percentage-of-completion method, the estimated loss would be charged to cost of sales in the period the loss is identified. The application of different types of accounting principles and related potential changes may make it more difficult to compare our financial results from quarter to quarter, and the trading price of VMS common stock could suffer or become more volatile as a result. 43PROVISIONS OF DELAWARE LAW AND OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS COULD BE INSUFFICIENT TO DETER A HOSTILE TAKEOVER; AND ACTIONS OF ACTIVIST STOCKHOLDERS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESSCertain provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws could deter a hostile takeover, while others could be insufficient to deter a hostile takeover. Our stockholder rights plan expired in December 2008, and we did not renew it. In addition, in February 2014 our stockholders approved, and we filed an amendment to our certificate of incorporation to declassify our Board of Directors commencing in 2016. Both of these changes reduced our ability to defend against a hostile takeover. The remaining provisions of Delaware law and of our charter documents may not be effective in defending against a hostile takeover or attack by an activist stockholder that may not be in the best interest of all of our shareholders, which could distract our management and adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to one or more campaigns by stockholders who desire to increase stockholder value in the short term. Any such campaign could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of management and our employees from executing on our strategic goals, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business.ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS IMPOSE COMPLIANCE COSTS ON OUR BUSINESS AND CAN ALSO RESULT IN LIABILITY We are subject to environmental laws around the world. These laws regulate many aspects of our operations, including our handling, storage, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. They can also impose cleanup liabilities, including with respect to discontinued operations. As a consequence, we can incur significant environmental costs and liabilities, some recurring and others not recurring. Although we follow procedures intended to comply with existing environmental laws, we, like other businesses, can never completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from certain materials that we use in our business and, therefore, the prospect of resulting claims and damage payments. We may also be assessed fines or penalties for failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations. Although insurance has provided coverage for portions of cleanup costs resulting from historical occurrences, we maintain only limited insurance coverage for costs or claims that might result from any future contamination. Future changes in environmental laws could also increase our costs of doing business, perhaps significantly. Several countries, including some in the EU, now require medical equipment manufacturers to bear certain disposal costs of products at the end of the product’s useful life, increasing our costs. The EU has also adopted directives that may lead to restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances or other regulated substances in some of our products sold there. These directives, along with another that requires substance information to be provided upon request, could increase our operating costs in order to maintain access to certain markets. All of these costs, and any future violations or liabilities under environmental laws or regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business. OUR OPERATIONS ARE VULNERABLE TO INTERRUPTION OR LOSS DUE TO NATURAL OR OTHER DISASTERS, POWER LOSS, STRIKES AND OTHER EVENTS BEYOND OUR CONTROL We conduct a significant portion of our activities, including manufacturing, administration and data processing at facilities located in the State of California and other seismically active areas that have experienced major earthquakes and other natural disasters. We carry limited earthquake insurance that may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. A major earthquake or other disaster (such as a major fire, hurricane, flood, tsunami, volcanic eruption or terrorist attack) affecting our facilities, or those of our suppliers, could significantly disrupt our operations, and delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment during the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our or our suppliers’ damaged manufacturing facilities. These delays could be lengthy and costly. If any of our customers’ facilities are adversely affected by a disaster, shipments of our products could be delayed. Additionally, customers may delay purchases of our products until operations return to normal. Even if we are able to quickly respond to a disaster, the ongoing effects of the disaster could create some uncertainty in the operations of our businesses, such as occurred following the March 2011 tsunami in Japan. In addition, our facilities may be subject to a shortage of available electrical power and other energy supplies. Any shortages may increase our costs for power and energy supplies or could result in blackouts, which could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and harm our business. Further, our products are typically shipped from a limited number of ports, and any disaster, strike or other event blocking shipment from these ports could delay or prevent shipments and harm our business. In addition, concerns about terrorism, the effects of a terrorist attack, political turmoil or an outbreak of epidemic diseases, such as Ebola, could have a negative effect on our business operations, those of our suppliers and customers, and the ability to travel, resulting in adverse consequences on our revenues and financial performance. 44WE WORK IN INTERNATIONAL LOCATIONS WHERE THERE ARE HIGH SECURITY RISKS, WHICH COULD RESULT IN HARM TO OUR EMPLOYEES OR CONTRACTORS OR CAUSE US TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS We work in some international locations where there are high security risks, which could result in harm to our employees and contractors or substantial costs. Some of our services are performed in or adjacent to high-risk locations where the country or location and surrounding area is suffering from political, social, or economic issues; war or civil unrest, or has a high level of criminal or terrorist activity. In those locations where we have employees or operations, we may incur substantial costs to maintain the safety of our personnel. Despite these precautions, the safety of our personnel in these locations may continue to be at risk, and we may in the future suffer the loss of employees and contractors, which could harm our business and operating results. Item 1B