Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    The following risk factors should be read carefully in
    connection with evaluating VF’s business and the
    forward-looking statements contained in this
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect
    VF’s business, its operating results and its financial
    condition.


 



    VF’s
    revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending
    for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions.
    A decline in consumer spending could have a material adverse
    effect on VF.


 


    The apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical
    variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the
    general economy. The success of VF’s business depends on
    consumer spending, and there are a number of factors that
    influence consumer spending, including actual and perceived
    economic conditions, disposable consumer income, interest rates,
    availability of credit, housing costs, stock market performance,
    energy prices and tax rates in the





    
    14



Table of Contents





    international, national, regional and local markets where
    VF’s products are sold. Consumer spending advanced at a
    relatively slow pace during 2010 following the recessionary
    conditions of 2008 and early 2009. A decline in actual or
    perceived economic conditions or other factors could negatively
    impact the level of consumer spending.


 



    The
    effects of a return to recessionary conditions could have a
    material adverse effect on VF.


 


    The global recession — with rising unemployment,
    reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and
    declines in real estate and securities values — had
    and is continuing to have a negative impact on retail sales of
    apparel and other consumer products. Reduced sales at our
    wholesale customers may lead to lower retail inventory levels,
    reduced orders to VF, or order cancellations. These lower sales
    volumes, along with the possibility of restrictions on access to
    the credit markets, may result in our customers experiencing
    financial difficulties including store closures, bankruptcies or
    liquidations. This may result in higher credit risk relating to
    receivables from our customers who are experiencing these
    financial difficulties. If these developments occur, our
    inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on
    VF’s trade accounts receivable could have a material
    adverse effect on VF’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    A growing portion of our revenues are
    direct-to-consumer
    through VF-operated stores and
    e-commerce
    websites. It is possible that reduced consumer confidence, along
    with a reduction in availability of consumer credit and
    increasing unemployment, could lead to a reduction in our
    direct-to-consumer
    sales channel. This could have a material adverse effect on
    VF’s financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Fluctuations
    in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and
    finished goods could increase costs.


 


    Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics
    or other raw materials used by VF in its manufactured apparel,
    or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse
    effect on VF’s cost of sales or its ability to meet its
    customers’ demands. The prices for fabrics depend on demand
    and market prices for the raw materials used to produce them,
    with the price of cotton currently having a significant negative
    impact. The price and availability of such raw materials may
    fluctuate significantly, depending on many factors, including
    crop yields, weather patterns and speculation in the commodities
    markets. Prices of purchased finished products also depend on
    wage rates in Asia and other geographic areas where our
    independent contractors are located, as well as freight costs
    from those regions. In the future, VF may not be able to offset
    cost increases with other cost reductions or efficiencies or to
    pass higher costs on to its customers. In addition, increased
    costs could lead to reduced customer demand. These developments
    could have a material adverse effect on VF’s results of
    operations, liquidity and financial condition.


 



    The
    apparel industry is highly competitive, and VF’s success
    depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion
    trends and consumer demand. Reduced sales or prices resulting
    from competition could have a material adverse effect on
    VF.


 


    VF competes with numerous apparel brands and manufacturers. Some
    of our competitors are larger and have more resources than VF in
    some product categories and geographies. In addition, VF
    competes directly with the private label brands of most of its
    wholesale customers. VF’s ability to compete within the
    apparel and footwear industries depends on our ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely
    manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    Develop attractive, high quality products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintain strong brand recognition;




 



     
        • 

    
    Price products appropriately;




 



     
        • 

    
    Provide
    best-in-class
    marketing support and intelligence;




 



     
        • 

    
    Ensure product availability and optimize supply chain
    efficiencies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present our
    products at retail.







    
    15



Table of Contents




 


    If we misjudge fashion trends and market conditions, we could
    have insufficient levels of inventory that cause us to miss
    opportunities to make sales, or we could have significant excess
    inventories of products that we may have to sell at a loss.
    Failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly
    changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect
    on VF’s business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    VF’s
    results of operations could be materially harmed if we are
    unable to accurately forecast demand for our
    products.


 


    We often schedule internal production and place orders for
    products with independent manufacturers before our
    customers’ orders are firm. Factors that could affect our
    ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    An increase or decrease in consumer demand for VF’s
    products or for products of its competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance of new
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    New product introductions by competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other
    factors, which result in cancellations of orders or a reduction
    or increase in the rate of reorders placed by retailers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which reduce
    demand for VF’s products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, which adversely
    affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production
    and distribution of products and raw materials.





 


    If we fail to accurately forecast consumer demand, we may
    experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product
    required to meet the demand. Inventory levels in excess of
    consumer demand may result in inventory write-downs and the sale
    of excess inventory at discounted prices, which could have an
    adverse effect on VF’s results of operations and financial
    condition. On the other hand, if we underestimate demand for our
    products, our manufacturing facilities or third party
    manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet
    consumer requirements, and this could result in delays in the
    shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to
    VF’s reputation and relationships. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to successfully manage inventory
    levels to meet our future order requirements.


 



    A
    substantial portion of VF’s revenues and gross profit is
    derived from a small number of large customers. The loss of any
    of these customers could substantially reduce VF’s revenues
    and profits.


 


    A few of VF’s customers account for a significant portion
    of revenues. Sales to VF’s ten largest customers were 26%
    of Total Revenues in fiscal 2010, with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
    accounting for 10% of revenues. Sales are generally on a
    purchase order basis, and we do not have long-term agreements
    with any of our customers. A decision by any of VF’s major
    customers to significantly decrease the volume of products
    purchased from VF could substantially reduce revenues and have a
    material adverse effect on VF’s financial condition and
    results of operations. Moreover, in recent years, the retail
    industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership
    changes. In the future, retailers may further consolidate,
    undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their
    affiliations or reposition their stores’ target markets.
    These developments could result in a reduction in the number of
    stores that carry VF’s products, increase ownership
    concentration within the retail industry, increase credit
    exposure or increase leverage over their suppliers. These
    changes could impact VF’s opportunities in the market and
    increase VF’s reliance on a smaller number of large
    customers.


 



    VF’s
    profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on
    margins.


 


    The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure
    caused by many factors, including intense competition,
    consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to
    reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand. If
    these factors cause us to reduce our sales prices to retailers
    and consumers, and we fail to sufficiently reduce our product
    costs or operating expenses, VF’s profitability will
    decline. This could have a material adverse effect on VF’s
    results of operations, liquidity and financial condition.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    VF may
    not succeed in implementing its growth strategy.


 


    One of our key strategic objectives is growth. We seek to grow
    through both organic growth and acquisitions by building new
    growing lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning
    customers, stretching VF’s brands to new geographies,
    managing costs, leveraging our supply chain and information
    technology capabilities across VF, expanding our
    direct-to-consumer
    business and identifying and developing high potential
    employees. We may not be able to grow our existing businesses.
    We may have difficulty completing acquisitions, and we may not
    be able to successfully integrate a newly acquired business or
    achieve the expected growth, cost savings or synergies from such
    integration. We may not be able to expand our market share with
    winning customers, expand our brands geographically or achieve
    the expected results from our supply chain initiatives. We may
    also have difficulty recruiting or developing qualified
    employees. Failure to implement our growth strategy may have a
    material adverse effect on VF’s business.


 



    VF’s
    operations in international markets, and earnings in those
    markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and
    economic risks.


 


    Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our
    existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in
    existing and new international markets is subject to risks
    associated with international operations. These include the
    burdens of complying with foreign laws and regulations,
    unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or
    other barriers in some international markets.


 


    We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange
    controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the United
    States, the European Union or other countries on the import or
    export of our products, or what effect any of these actions
    would have on VF’s business, financial condition or results
    of operations. We cannot predict whether there might be changes
    in our ability to repatriate earnings or capital from
    international jurisdictions. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical
    policies and other factors may adversely affect VF’s
    business or may require us to modify our current business
    practices.


 


    Approximately 40% of VF’s net income is earned in
    international jurisdictions. VF is exposed to risks of changes
    in U.S. policy for companies having business operations
    outside the United States. The President and others in his
    Administration have proposed changes in U.S. income tax
    laws that could, among other things, accelerate the
    U.S. taxability of
    non-U.S. earnings
    or limit foreign tax credits. Although such proposals have been
    deferred, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our
    U.S. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce
    our earnings.


 



    VF
    uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a
    substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products,
    which poses risks to VF’s business
    operations.


 


    During fiscal 2010, approximately 66% of VF’s units were
    purchased from independent manufacturers primarily located in
    Asia, with substantially all of the remainder produced by
    VF-owned and operated manufacturing facilities located in
    Mexico, Central America and the Middle East. Although no single
    supplier and no one country is critical to VF’s production
    needs, any of the following could impact our ability to produce
    or deliver VF products and, as a result, have a material adverse
    effect on VF’s business, financial condition and results of
    operations:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Political or labor instability in countries where VF’s
    facilities, contractors and suppliers are located;




 



     
        • 

    
    Political or military conflict could cause a delay in the
    transportation of raw materials and products to VF and an
    increase in transportation costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Heightened terrorism security concerns could subject imported or
    exported goods to additional, more frequent or more lengthy
    inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or impoundment of
    goods for extended periods;




 



     
        • 

    
    Decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods,
    leading to more counterfeit goods and reduced sales of VF
    products, increased costs for VF’s anticounterfeiting
    measures and damage to the reputation of its brands;







    
    17



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the H1N1
    virus, bird flu, SARS, mad cow and
    hoof-and-mouth
    disease outbreaks in recent years, could result in closed
    factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and
    scrutiny or embargo of VF’s goods produced in infected
    areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    Imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our
    ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations could
    limit our ability to produce products in cost-effective
    countries that have the labor and expertise needed;




 



     
        • 

    
    Imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on
    imports; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual
    property rights.





 



    Our
    business is subject to national, state and local laws and
    regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other
    matters. The costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such
    laws and regulations by VF or by independent suppliers who
    manufacture products for VF could have an adverse effect on our
    operations and cash flows.


 


    Numerous governmental agencies enforce comprehensive federal,
    state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of
    environmental, employment, safety and other matters. VF could be
    adversely affected by costs of compliance with or violations of
    those laws and regulations. In addition, the costs of products
    purchased by VF from independent contractors could increase due
    to the costs of compliance by those contractors. Further,
    violations of such laws and regulations could affect the
    availability of inventory, affecting our net sales.


 



    If
    VF’s suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business
    practices, VF’s business could suffer.


 


    We require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with
    applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working
    conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance.
    However, we do not control the practices of our independent
    manufacturers. If one of our independent contractors violates
    labor or other laws or implements labor or other business
    practices that are generally regarded as unethical in the United
    States, it could impact VF’s reputation and relationships.
    Although the loss of a single supplier would not have a
    significant impact on our operations, it could result in
    interruption of finished goods shipments to VF, cancellation of
    orders by customers, and termination of relationships. This,
    along with the damage to our reputation, could have a material
    adverse effect on VF’s revenues and, consequently, its
    results of operations.


 



    VF’s
    business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange
    rate fluctuations. VF’s hedging strategies may not be
    effective in mitigating those risks.


 


    Approximately 30% of VF’s Total Revenues is derived from
    international markets. VF’s foreign businesses operate in
    functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes
    in currency exchange rates may affect the U.S. dollar value
    of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which VF’s
    international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell
    products. In addition, for VF’s
    U.S.-based
    businesses, the majority of products are sourced from
    independent contractors or VF plants located in foreign
    countries. As a result, the cost of these products may be
    affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies.
    Furthermore, much of VF’s licensing revenue is derived from
    sales in foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates could have an adverse impact on VF’s
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    In accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a
    significant portion of our foreign currency transaction
    exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce
    risks in our cash flows and earnings. Our hedging strategies may
    not be effective in reducing these risks, and no hedging
    strategy can completely insulate VF from foreign exchange risk.
    We do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes.


 


    Further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose
    VF to counterparty risks. Although VF only enters into hedging
    contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit
    ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a
    counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default
    on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact
    on VF’s financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.




    
    18



Table of Contents






    VF
    borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support
    seasonal working capital requirements. Long-term debt is part of
    VF’s total capital structure. Because of conditions in
    global credit markets, VF may have difficulty accessing capital
    markets for short or long-term financing.


 


    Particularly in 2008 and continuing to a lesser extent during
    the last two years, global capital and credit markets have
    experienced extreme volatility and disruption, with government
    intervention, mergers or bankruptcies of several major financial
    institutions, and a general decline in global liquidity. Many
    corporate issuers have been unable to access credit markets.


 


    We typically use short-term commercial paper borrowings to
    support seasonal working capital requirements, with amounts
    generally repaid by the end of each year from strong cash flows
    from operations. VF was able to continue to borrow in the
    commercial paper markets during the last three years, and our
    commercial paper borrowings in 2010 were minimal. In the future,
    VF may seek to access the long-term capital markets to replace
    maturing debt obligations or to fund acquisition or other growth
    opportunities. There is no assurance that the commercial paper
    markets or the long-term capital markets will continue to be
    reliable sources of financing for VF.


 



    VF has
    domestic and international bank credit facilities. One or more
    of the participating banks may not be able to honor their
    commitments, which could have an adverse effect on VF’s
    business.


 


    VF has $1.3 billion of domestic and international bank
    credit facilities that expire in October 2012. If the financial
    markets return to recessionary conditions, this could impair the
    ability of one or more of the banks participating in our credit
    agreements from honoring their commitments. This could have an
    adverse effect on our business if we were not able to replace
    those commitments or to locate other sources of liquidity on
    acceptable terms.


 



    The
    loss of members of VF’s executive management and other key
    employees could have a material adverse effect on its
    business.


 


    VF depends on the services and management experience of its
    executive officers and business leaders who have substantial
    experience and expertise in VF’s business. VF also depends
    on other key employees involved in the operation of its
    business. Competition for experienced and well-qualified
    personnel in the apparel industry is intense. The unexpected
    loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have
    a material adverse effect on VF.


 



    VF may
    be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual
    property rights.


 


    VF’s trademarks and other intellectual property rights are
    important to its success and its competitive position. VF is
    susceptible to others imitating its products and infringing its
    intellectual property rights especially with the shift in
    product mix to higher priced brands and innovative new products
    in recent years. Some of VF’s brands, such as The North
    Face®,

    Vans®,

    JanSport®,

    Nautica®,

    Wrangler®

    and
    Lee®

    brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and
    the higher pricing of those products creates additional risk of
    counterfeiting and infringement.


 


    Counterfeiting of VF’s products or infringement on its
    intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our
    brands and adversely affect VF’s revenues. Actions we have
    taken to establish and protect VF’s intellectual property
    rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its products
    by others or to prevent others from seeking to invalidate its
    trademarks or block sales of VF’s products as a violation
    of the trademarks and intellectual property rights of others. In
    addition, unilateral actions in the United States or other
    countries, including changes to or the repeal of laws
    recognizing trademark or other intellectual property rights,
    could have an impact on VF’s ability to enforce those
    rights.


 


    The value of VF’s intellectual property could diminish if
    others assert rights in or ownership of trademarks and other
    intellectual property rights of VF, or trademarks that are
    similar to VF’s trademarks, or trademarks that VF licenses
    from others. We may be unable to successfully resolve these
    types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may
    be trademark owners who have prior rights to VF’s
    trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not
    protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do
    the laws of the United States. In other





    
    19



Table of Contents





    cases, there may be holders who have prior rights to similar
    trademarks. VF is from time to time involved in opposition and
    cancellation proceedings with respect to some of its
    intellectual property rights.


 



    VF is
    subject to the risk that its licensees may not generate expected
    sales or maintain the value of VF’s brands.


 


    During 2010, $78.0 million of VF’s revenues were
    derived from licensing royalties. Although VF generally has
    significant control over its licensees’ products and
    advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things,
    operational and financial controls over their businesses.
    Failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed
    products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if
    necessary, could adversely affect VF’s revenues, both
    directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from
    reduced sales of our other products. Risks are also associated
    with a licensee’s ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Obtain capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    Manage its labor relations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintain relationships with its suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Manage its credit risk effectively; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintain relationships with its customers.





 


    In addition, VF relies on its licensees to help preserve the
    value of its brands. Although we make every attempt to protect
    VF’s brands through approval rights over design, production
    processes, quality, packaging, merchandising, distribution,
    advertising and promotion of our licensed products, we cannot
    completely control the use of licensed VF brands by our
    licensees. The misuse of a brand by a licensee could have a
    material adverse effect on that brand and on VF.


 



    VF has
    entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others.
    Loss of a license could have an adverse effect on VF’s
    operating results.


 


    VF has entered into agreements to market products under licenses
    granted by third parties, including Major League Baseball, the
    National Football League and Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc.
    Some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain
    renewal options. Loss of a license, which in certain cases could
    result in an impairment charge for related operating and
    intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on VF’s
    operating results.


 



    VF
    relies significantly on information technology. Any inadequacy,
    interruption, integration failure or security failure of that
    technology could harm VF’s ability to effectively operate
    its business.


 


    Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business
    depends significantly on information technology systems. The
    failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with
    transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in
    integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a
    breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the
    operations of VF’s business. Moreover, VF and its customers
    could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third
    parties due to a security failure in VF’s systems. It could
    also require significant expenditures to remediate any such
    failure, problem or breach.


 



    If VF
    encounters problems with its distribution system, VF’s
    ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely
    affected.


 


    VF relies on owned or independently-operated distribution
    facilities to warehouse and ship product to its customers.
    VF’s distribution system includes computer-controlled and
    automated equipment, which may be subject to a number of risks
    related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of
    software and hardware, power interruptions or other system
    failures. Because substantially all of VF’s products are
    distributed from a relatively small number of locations,
    VF’s operations could also be interrupted by earthquakes,
    floods, fires or other natural disasters near its distribution
    centers. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may
    not adequately protect VF from the adverse effects that could be
    caused by significant disruptions in VF’s distribution
    facilities, such as the





    
    20



Table of Contents





    long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. In
    addition, VF’s distribution capacity is dependent on the
    timely performance of services by third parties, including the
    transportation of product to and from its distribution
    facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution
    system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage
    inventory, complete sales and achieve operating efficiencies
    could be materially adversely affected.


 



    VF’s
    balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets
    and goodwill. A decline in the fair value of an intangible asset
    or of a business unit could result in an asset impairment
    charge, which would be recorded as an operating expense in
    VF’s Consolidated Statement of Income and could be
    material.


 


    We evaluate goodwill and trademark intangible assets that are
    not amortized for possible impairment at least annually. In
    addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested
    for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that
    their carrying value might not be recoverable. For these
    impairment tests, we use various valuation methods to estimate
    the fair value of our business units and intangible assets. If
    the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying value, we
    would recognize an impairment charge for the difference. During
    2010 and 2009, we recognized goodwill and intangible asset
    impairment charges totaling $201.7 million and
    $122.0 million, respectively.


 


    At December 2010, VF had indefinite-lived intangible assets of
    approximately $1.0 billion related to trademarks and
    $1.2 billion of goodwill on its balance sheet. In addition,
    VF had approximately $0.5 billion of intangible assets that
    are being amortized. Goodwill and intangible assets combined
    represent 41% of VF’s Total Assets and 69% of
    Stockholders’ Equity.


 


    It is possible that we could have an impairment charge for
    goodwill or trademark intangible assets in future periods if
    (i) overall economic conditions in 2011 or future years
    vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions
    or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our
    current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates
    of return on equity investments in the marketplace or
    (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded
    companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable
    companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable
    multiples of revenues and EBITDA and, accordingly, lower implied
    values of goodwill and intangible assets. A future impairment
    charge for goodwill or intangible assets could have a material
    effect on our consolidated financial position or results of
    operations.


 



    VF’s
    defined benefit pension plans were underfunded at the end of
    2010.


 


    VF’s defined benefit pension plans were underfunded by
    $207.4 million at the end of 2010. This underfunding
    resulted from the decline in market value of the qualified
    plans’ investment portfolios resulting from the global
    financial and credit crisis that began near the end of 2007 and
    a reduction in the discount rate used to determine the present
    value of the plans’ projected benefit obligations.
    Differences between actual results and amounts estimated using
    actuarial assumptions (e.g., investment returns, discount rate,
    mortality) are deferred and amortized as part of future
    years’ pension cost. Deferred actuarial losses included in
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Stockholders’
    Equity totaled $415.2 million at December 2010. Primarily
    because of the amortization of these deferred actuarial losses,
    our pension cost was $67.6 million in 2010 and
    $98.0 million in 2009, a sharp increase from
    $10.8 million in 2008. We made $100 million of
    discretionary contributions to our pension plans during 2010 and
    $200 million in 2009, which increased the funded status of
    our pension plans to 85% at the end of 2010.


 


    A further decrease in the value of our pension plans’
    assets or a decrease in the discount rate used to value the
    plans’ liabilities to participants could result in a
    further decrease in the plans’ funded status. In that case,
    VF would recognize additional pension liabilities and additional
    charges to Stockholders’ Equity in our Consolidated Balance
    Sheet and higher pension expense in future years. Further, VF
    could be required to make additional cash funding contributions
    to return the funded status of the pension plans to a higher
    level over the next few years.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B