Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    The following risk factors should be read carefully in
    connection with evaluating VF’s business and the
    forward-looking statements contained in this
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect
    VF’s business, its operating results and its financial
    condition.


 



    VF’s
    revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending
    for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic
    conditions.


 


    The apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical
    variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the
    general economy. The success of VF’s business depends on
    consumer spending. Consumer spending is influenced by a number
    of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions
    affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment and
    wages), business conditions, interest rates, availability of
    credit, housing costs, the level of securities markets, energy
    prices and tax rates in the international, national, regional
    and local markets where VF’s products are sold. Consumer
    spending was constrained during 2009, and a further decline in
    general economic conditions could further reduce the level of
    consumer spending.


 



    We do
    not expect a significant improvement in business conditions and
    consumer spending in the near future. The effects of a return to
    recessionary conditions could have a material adverse effect on
    VF.


 


    The global recession — with rising unemployment,
    reduced availability of credit, increased savings rates and
    declines in real estate and securities values —  had a
    negative impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer
    products. Reduced sales by our wholesale customers may lead to
    lower retail inventory levels, reduced orders to suppliers like
    VF, or order cancellations. Reduced sales by some of our
    wholesale customers, along with the possibility of their reduced
    access to, or inability to access, the credit markets, may
    result in various retailers experiencing significant financial
    difficulties. Financial difficulties of customers could result
    in reduced sales to those customers or could result in store
    closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. Higher credit risk
    relating to receivables from customers experiencing financial
    difficulty may result. If these developments occur, our
    inability





    
    14



 





    to shift sales to other customers or to collect on VF’s
    trade accounts receivable could have a material adverse effect
    on VF’s financial condition and results of operations.


 


    A growing portion of our revenues are
    direct-to-consumer
    through VF-operated retail stores and
    e-commerce
    websites. It is possible that reduced consumer confidence, along
    with a reduction in availability of consumer credit and
    increasing unemployment, could lead to reduced purchases of
    VF’s products through VF-operated retail stores and
    websites. This could have a material adverse effect on VF’s
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    The
    apparel industry is highly competitive, and VF’s success
    depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion
    trends and consumer demand. Reduced sales or prices resulting
    from competition could have a material adverse effect on
    VF.


 


    VF competes with numerous brands and manufacturers of apparel.
    Some of our competitors may be larger and have more resources
    than VF in certain product categories. In addition, VF competes
    directly with the private label brands of its wholesale
    customers. VF’s ability to compete within the apparel and
    footwear industries depends on its ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely
    manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    Develop attractive, quality products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintain favorable brand recognition;




 



     
        • 

    
    Price products appropriately;




 



     
        • 

    
    Provide effective marketing support;




 



     
        • 

    
    Ensure product availability and optimize supply chain
    efficiencies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present its
    products at retail.





 


    Failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly
    changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect
    on VF’s business, financial condition and results of
    operations. In addition, if we misjudge fashion trends and
    market conditions, we could be faced with significant excess
    inventories for some products that we may have to sell at a loss
    or missed opportunities that may result in lost sales.


 



    VF’s
    results of operations could be materially harmed if VF is unable
    to accurately forecast demand for its products.


 


    We often schedule internal production and place orders for
    products with independent manufacturers before our
    customers’ orders are firm. Therefore, if we fail to
    accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience excess
    inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to our
    customers. Factors that could affect our ability to accurately
    forecast demand for our products include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    An increase or decrease in consumer demand for VF’s
    products or for products of its competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance of new
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    New product introductions by competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other
    factors, which may result in cancellations of orders or a
    reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by
    retailers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Weak economic conditions or consumer confidence, which could
    reduce demand for discretionary items such as VF’s
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorism or acts of war, or the threat of terrorism or acts of
    war, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and
    spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and
    raw materials.





 


    Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in
    inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at
    discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on
    VF’s results of operations and financial condition. On the
    other hand, if we underestimate demand for our products, our
    manufacturing facilities or third





    
    15



 





    party manufacturers may not be able to produce products to meet
    customer requirements, and this could result in delays in the
    shipment of products and lost revenues, as well as damage to
    VF’s reputation and customer relationships. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to successfully manage inventory
    levels to exactly meet future order and reorder requirements.


 



    A
    substantial portion of VF’s revenues and gross profit is
    derived from a small number of large customers. The loss of any
    of these customers could substantially reduce VF’s
    profits.


 


    A few of VF’s customers account for a significant portion
    of revenues. Sales to VF’s ten largest customers were 27%
    of Total Revenues in fiscal 2009, with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
    accounting for 11% of revenues. Sales are generally on a
    purchase order basis, and we do not have long-term agreements
    with any of our customers. A decision by any of VF’s major
    customers to decrease significantly the number of products
    purchased from VF could substantially reduce revenues and have a
    material adverse effect on VF’s financial condition and
    results of operations. Moreover, in recent years, the retail
    industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership
    changes. In the future, retailers may further consolidate,
    undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their
    affiliations or reposition their stores’ target market.
    These developments could result in a reduction in the number of
    stores that carry VF’s products, increased ownership
    concentration within the retail industry, increased credit
    exposure or increased retailer leverage over their suppliers.
    These changes could impact VF’s opportunities in the market
    and increase VF’s reliance on a smaller number of large
    customers.


 



    VF’s
    profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on
    margins.


 


    The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure
    caused by many factors, including intense competition,
    consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to
    reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand.
    These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to
    retailers and consumers, which could cause VF’s gross
    margin to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions
    with comparable reductions in operating costs. If VF’s
    sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our
    product costs or operating expenses, VF’s profitability
    will decline. This could have a material adverse effect on
    VF’s results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.


 



    Fluctuations
    in the price, availability and quality of raw materials and
    finished goods could increase costs and cause service
    delays.


 


    Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics
    or other raw materials used by VF in its manufactured apparel,
    or of purchased finished goods, could have a material adverse
    effect on VF’s cost of sales or its ability to meet its
    customers’ demands. The prices for such fabrics depend on
    demand and market prices for the raw materials used to produce
    them, particularly cotton. The price and availability of such
    raw materials may fluctuate significantly, depending on many
    factors, including crop yields and weather patterns. In the
    future, VF may not be able to pass higher costs on to its
    customers.


 



    VF may
    not succeed in implementing its growth strategy.


 


    One of our key strategic objectives is growth. We seek to grow
    through both organic growth and acquisitions by building new
    growing lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning
    customers, stretching VF’s brands and customers to new
    geographies, leveraging our supply chain and information
    technology capabilities across VF, expanding our
    direct-to-consumer
    business and identifying and developing high potential
    employees. We may not be able to grow our existing businesses or
    achieve planned cost savings. We may have difficulty identifying
    acquisition targets, and we may not be able to successfully
    integrate a newly acquired business or achieve expected cost
    savings or synergies from such integration. We may not be able
    to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our
    brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our
    supply chain initiatives. We may also have difficulty recruiting
    or developing qualified managers. Failure to implement our
    growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on VF’s
    business.




    
    16



 






    VF’s
    operations in international markets, and earnings in those
    markets, may be affected by legal, regulatory, political and
    economic risks.


 


    Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our
    existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in
    existing and new international markets is subject to risks
    associated with international operations. These include the
    burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and
    regulations, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, new
    tariffs or other barriers to some international markets.


 


    We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, exchange
    controls or other restrictions will be imposed by the United
    States, the European Union or other countries upon the import or
    export of our products in the future, or what effect any of
    these actions would have on VF’s business, financial
    condition or results of operations. We cannot predict whether
    there might be changes in our ability to repatriate earnings or
    capital from international jurisdictions. Changes in regulatory,
    geopolitical policies and other factors may adversely affect
    VF’s business or may require us to modify our current
    business practices.


 


    Approximately one-third of VF’s income is earned in
    international jurisdictions. VF is exposed to risks of changes
    in U.S. policy for companies having business operations
    outside the United States. In recent months, the President and
    others in his Administration have proposed changes in
    U.S. income tax laws that could, among other things,
    accelerate the U.S. taxability of
    non-U.S. earnings
    or limit foreign tax credits. Although such proposals have been
    deferred, if new legislation were enacted, it is possible our
    U.S. income tax expense could increase, which would reduce
    our earnings.


 



    VF
    uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a
    substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products,
    which poses risks to VF’s business
    operations.


 


    During fiscal 2009, approximately 84% of VF’s products sold
    were produced by and purchased from independent manufacturers
    primarily located in Asia, with substantially all of the
    remainder produced by VF-owned and operated manufacturing
    facilities located in Mexico, Central America, Poland and the
    Middle East. Although no single supplier and no one country is
    critical to VF’s production needs, any of the following
    could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or
    deliver VF products and, as a result, have a material adverse
    effect on VF’s business, financial condition and results of
    operations:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Political or labor instability in countries where VF’s
    facilities, contractors and suppliers are located;




 



     
        • 

    
    Political or military conflict, which could cause a delay in the
    transportation of raw materials and products to VF and an
    increase in transportation costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject
    imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more
    lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or
    impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in
    decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods,
    leading to lost sales, increased costs for VF’s
    anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its
    brands;




 



     
        • 

    
    Disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the H1N1
    virus, bird flu, SARS, mad cow and
    hoof-and-mouth
    disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed
    factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and
    scrutiny or embargo of VF’s goods produced in infected
    areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    Imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our
    ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which,
    among other things, could limit our ability to produce products
    in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise
    needed;




 



     
        • 

    
    Imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on
    imports; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual
    property rights.







    
    17



 




 



    Our
    business is subject to national, state and local laws and
    regulations for environmental, employment, safety and other
    matters. The costs of compliance with, or the violation of, such
    laws and regulations by VF or by independent suppliers who
    manufacture products for VF could have an adverse effect on our
    operations and cash flows.


 


    Numerous governmental agencies enforce comprehensive federal,
    state and local laws and regulations on a wide range of
    environmental, employment, safety and other matters. VF could be
    adversely affected by costs of compliance or violations of those
    laws and regulations. In addition, the costs of products
    purchased by VF from independent contractors could increase due
    to the costs of compliance by those contractors. Further,
    violations of such laws and regulations could affect the
    availability of inventory, thereby affecting our net sales.


 



    If
    VF’s suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business
    practices, VF’s business could suffer.


 


    We require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with
    applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working
    conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance.
    Additionally, we require all suppliers making VF-branded
    apparel, whether directly for VF or for its licensees, to comply
    with VF’s Terms of Engagement and Global Compliance
    Principles. Our staff and third parties retained for such
    purposes periodically visit and audit the operations of
    VF’s owned and operated facilities and those of independent
    contractors manufacturing product for VF to determine
    compliance. However, we do not control independent manufacturers
    or their labor and other business practices. If one of our
    independent contractors violates labor or other laws or
    implements labor or other business practices that are generally
    regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of
    finished products to VF could be interrupted, orders could be
    cancelled, relationships could be terminated, and VF’s
    reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a
    material adverse effect on VF’s revenues and, consequently,
    its results of operations.


 



    VF’s
    business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange
    rate fluctuations. VF’s hedging strategies may not be
    effective in mitigating those risks.


 


    Approximately 30% of VF’s Total Revenues is derived from
    international markets. VF’s foreign businesses operate in
    functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes
    in currency exchange rates may affect the U.S. dollar value
    of the foreign currency-denominated amounts at which VF’s
    international businesses purchase products, incur costs or sell
    products. In addition, for VF’s
    U.S.-based
    businesses, the majority of products are sourced from
    independent contractors or VF plants located in foreign
    countries. As a result, the cost of these products may be
    affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies.
    Furthermore, much of VF’s licensing revenue is derived from
    sales in foreign currencies. Changes in foreign currency
    exchange rates could have an adverse impact on VF’s
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 


    In accordance with our operating practices, we hedge a
    significant portion of our foreign currency transaction
    exposures arising in the ordinary course of business to reduce
    risks in our cash flows and earnings. Our hedging strategy may
    not be effective in reducing these risks, and no hedging
    strategy can completely insulate VF from foreign exchange risk.
    We do not hedge foreign currency translation rate changes.


 


    Further, our use of derivative financial instruments may expose
    VF to counterparty risks. Although VF only enters into hedging
    contracts with counterparties having investment grade credit
    ratings, it is possible that the credit quality of a
    counterparty could be downgraded or a counterparty could default
    on its obligations, which could have a material adverse impact
    on VF’s financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    VF
    borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support
    seasonal working capital requirements. Long-term debt is part of
    VF’s total capital structure. VF may have difficulty
    accessing capital markets for short or long-term
    financing.


 


    During the last two years, the global capital and credit markets
    have experienced extreme levels of volatility and disruption,
    with government intervention, mergers or bankruptcies of several
    major financial institutions, and a general decline in global
    liquidity. Many corporate issuers have been unable to access
    credit markets.




    
    18



 





    Although VF had over $700 million of cash and equivalents
    at the end of 2009, we typically use short-term commercial paper
    borrowings to support seasonal working capital requirements,
    with amounts generally repaid by the end of each year from
    strong cash flows from operations. VF was able to continue to
    borrow in the commercial paper markets during the last two
    years, and all commercial paper borrowings were repaid by the
    end of each year. In addition, VF may access the long-term
    capital markets to replace maturing debt obligations or to fund
    acquisition or other growth opportunities. There is no assurance
    that the commercial paper markets or the long-term capital
    markets will continue to be reliable sources of financing for VF.


 



    VF has
    committed domestic and international bank credit facilities. One
    or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor
    their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on
    VF’s business.


 


    If we were to have difficulty in accessing the short or
    long-term capital markets, VF has $1.3 billion of committed
    domestic and international bank credit facilities that expire in
    October 2012. Continued distress in the financial markets could,
    however, impair the ability of one or more of the banks
    participating in our credit agreements from honoring their
    commitments. This could have an adverse effect on our business
    if we were not able to replace those commitments or to locate
    other sources of liquidity on acceptable terms.


 



    The
    loss of members of VF’s executive management and other key
    employees could have a material adverse effect on its
    business.


 


    VF depends on the services and management experience of its
    executive officers and business leaders who have substantial
    experience and expertise in VF’s business. VF also depends
    on other key employees involved in the operation of its
    business. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel
    industry is intense. The unexpected loss of services of one or
    more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect
    on VF.


 



    VF may
    be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual
    property rights.


 


    VF’s trademarks and other intellectual property rights are
    important to its success and its competitive position. VF is
    susceptible to others imitating its products and infringing its
    intellectual property rights. With the shift in product mix to
    higher priced brands in recent years, VF is more susceptible to
    infringement of its intellectual property rights. Some of
    VF’s brands, such as The North
    Face®,

    Vans®,

    JanSport®,

    Nautica®,

    Wrangler®

    and
    Lee®

    brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and
    the generally higher pricing of such products creates additional
    risk of counterfeiting and infringement.


 


    Counterfeiting of VF’s products or infringement on its
    intellectual property rights could diminish the value of our
    brands or otherwise adversely affect VF revenues. Actions we
    have taken to establish and protect VF’s intellectual
    property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its
    products by others or to prevent others from seeking to
    invalidate its trademarks or block sales of VF’s products
    as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property
    rights of others. In addition, unilateral actions in the United
    States or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of
    laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property
    rights, could have an impact on VF’s ability to enforce
    those rights.


 


    The value of VF’s intellectual property could diminish if
    others assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other
    intellectual property rights of VF, or trademarks that are
    similar to VF’s trademarks, or trademarks that VF licenses
    from others. We may be unable to successfully resolve these
    types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may
    be trademark owners who have prior rights to VF’s
    trademarks because the laws of certain foreign countries may not
    protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do
    the laws of the United States. In other cases, there may be
    holders who have prior rights to similar trademarks. VF is from
    time to time involved in opposition and cancellation proceedings
    with respect to some of its intellectual property rights.


 



    VF is
    subject to the risk that its licensees may not maintain the
    value of VF’s brands.


 


    During 2009, $77.2 million of VF’s revenues were
    derived from licensing royalties. Although VF generally has
    significant control over its licensees’ products and
    advertising, we rely on our licensees for, among other things,
    operational and financial controls over their businesses.
    Failure of our licensees to successfully market licensed
    products or our inability to replace existing licensees, if
    necessary, could adversely affect VF’s revenues, both





    
    19



 





    directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from
    reduced sales of our other products. Risks are also associated
    with a licensee’s ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Obtain capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    Manage its labor relations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintain relationships with its suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Manage its credit risk effectively; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintain relationships with its customers.





 


    In addition, VF relies on its licensees to help preserve the
    value of its brands. Although we make every attempt to protect
    VF’s brands through, among other things, approval rights
    over design, production processes and quality, packaging,
    merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of our
    licensed products, we cannot completely control the use of
    licensed VF brands by our licensees. The misuse of a brand by a
    licensee could have a material adverse effect on that brand and
    on VF.


 



    VF has
    entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others.
    Loss of a license could have an adverse effect on VF’s
    operating results.


 


    VF has entered into agreements to market products under licenses
    granted by third parties, including Major League Baseball, the
    National Football League and Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc.
    Some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain
    renewal options. Loss of a license, which in certain cases could
    result in an impairment charge for related operating and
    intangible assets, could have an adverse effect on VF’s
    operating results.


 



    VF
    relies significantly on information technology. Any inadequacy,
    interruption, integration failure or security failure of that
    technology could harm VF’s ability to effectively operate
    its business.


 


    Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business
    depends significantly on information technology systems. The
    failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with
    transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in
    integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses, or a
    breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the
    operations of VF’s business. Moreover, VF and its customers
    could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third
    parties due to a security failure in VF’s systems. It could
    also require significant expenditures to remediate any such
    failure, problem or breach.


 



    If VF
    encounters problems with its distribution system, VF’s
    ability to deliver its products to the market could be adversely
    affected.


 


    VF relies on its distribution facilities to warehouse and, using
    its own employees or in some cases independent contractors, to
    ship product to its customers. VF’s distribution system
    includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which
    means its operations are complicated and may be subject to a
    number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the
    proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions
    or other system failures. Because substantially all of VF’s
    products are distributed from a relatively small number of
    locations, VF’s operations could also be interrupted by
    earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural disasters near its
    distribution centers. We maintain business interruption
    insurance, but it may not adequately protect VF from the adverse
    effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in
    VF’s distribution facilities, such as the long-term loss of
    customers or an erosion of brand image. In addition, VF’s
    distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of
    services by third parties, including the transportation of
    product to and from its distribution facilities. If we encounter
    problems with our distribution system, our ability to meet
    customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and
    achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be
    materially adversely affected.




    
    20



 






    VF’s
    balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets
    and goodwill. A decline in the estimated fair value of an
    intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset
    impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating
    expense in VF’s Consolidated Statement of Income and could
    be material.


 


    Under current accounting standards, we estimate the fair value
    of acquired assets, including intangible assets, and assumed
    liabilities arising from a business acquisition. The excess, if
    any, of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of
    net tangible and intangible assets acquired is goodwill. The
    goodwill is then assigned to a business unit or “reporting
    unit” within VF, which depends on how the acquired business
    will be operated after integration into VF.


 


    We evaluate trademark intangible assets that are not amortized
    and goodwill for possible impairment at least annually. In
    addition, intangible assets that are being amortized are tested
    for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that
    their carrying value might not be recoverable. For these
    impairment tests, we use various valuation methodologies to
    estimate the fair value of our business units and intangible
    assets. If the fair value of an asset is less than its carrying
    value, we would recognize an impairment charge for the
    difference. During 2009, we recognized goodwill and intangible
    asset impairment charges totaling $122.0 million.


 


    At December 2009, VF had approximately $1.0 billion of
    indefinite-lived trademark intangible assets and
    $1.4 billion of goodwill on its balance sheet. These assets
    are not required to be amortized under current accounting rules.
    In addition, VF had approximately $0.5 billion of
    intangible assets that are being amortized under current
    accounting rules. Goodwill and intangible assets combined
    represent 45% of VF’s Total Assets and 76% of
    Stockholders’ Equity.


 


    It is possible that we could have an impairment charge for
    goodwill or trademark intangible assets in future periods if
    (i) overall economic conditions in 2010 or future years
    vary from our current assumptions, (ii) business conditions
    or our strategies for a specific business unit change from our
    current assumptions, (iii) investors require higher rates
    of return on equity investments in the marketplace or
    (iv) enterprise values of comparable publicly traded
    companies, or of actual sales transactions of comparable
    companies, were to decline, resulting in lower comparable
    multiples of revenues and EBITDA and, accordingly, lower implied
    values of goodwill and intangible assets. Specifically regarding
    our Contemporary Brands Coalition, the recession of the last two
    years has particularly impacted the upper tier or premium
    department and specialty store channel of distribution and, in
    many cases, products sold through this premium channel. While no
    impairment is indicated for any of our business units within
    this coalition, if the premium channel does not improve from
    recessionary levels or if the growth strategies of our business
    units are not successful, it is possible that an impairment
    charge would be required. A future impairment charge for
    goodwill or intangible assets could have a material effect on
    our consolidated financial position or results of operations.


 



    VF’s
    defined benefit pension plans were underfunded at the end of
    2009 due primarily to the decline in market value of the
    plans’ investment portfolios, resulting from the global
    financial and credit crisis that began near the end of 2007.
    This resulted in recognition of a significant liability
    representing the underfunded status of our plans and a
    significant charge to Stockholders’ Equity in our
    Consolidated Balance Sheets at the end of 2008 and 2009, as well
    as a significant increase in our 2009 pension expense. If the
    pension plans’ investments were to decline in value or if
    the level of interest rates were to decline from the current
    level, the pension plans could be further underfunded, resulting
    in recognition of additional underfunded liabilities and
    additional charges to Stockholders’ Equity in our
    Consolidated Balance Sheets, higher pension expense and possibly
    additional cash contributions to fund the plans.


 


    VF’s defined benefit pension plans were underfunded at the
    end of 2009, resulting in recognition of $238.8 million of
    pension liabilities at the end of 2009. Differences between
    actual results and amounts estimated using actuarial assumptions
    (e.g., investment returns, discount rate, mortality) are
    deferred and amortized in future years’ pension cost.
    Deferred actuarial losses included in Stockholders’ Equity
    totaled $266.0 million. Primarily because of these deferred
    actuarial losses, our pension cost increased from
    $10.8 million in 2008 to $98.0 million in 2009. To
    improve the funded status of our pension plans, we made over
    $200 million of discretionary contributions to our plans
    during 2009.




    
    21



 





    A further decrease in the value of our plans’ assets or a
    decrease in the discount rate used to value the plans’
    liabilities to participants could result in a further decrease
    in the plans’ funded status. In that case, VF would
    recognize additional pension liabilities and additional charges
    to Stockholders’ Equity in our Consolidated Balance Sheet
    and higher pension expense in future years. Further, VF could be
    required to make additional cash funding contributions to return
    the pension plans to a fully funded status over the next few
    years.






 




    
    



    
    Item 1B