Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors.





 


    The following risk factors should be read carefully in
    connection with evaluating VF’s business and the
    forward-looking statements contained in this
    Form 10-K.
    Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect
    VF’s business, its operating results and its financial
    condition.


 



    RISKS
    SPECIFIC TO VF CORPORATION


 



    VF’s
    business could be adversely affected by reduced consumer
    spending and consumer confidence.


 


    The global credit crisis that began in 2008 is having a negative
    impact on retail sales of apparel and other consumer products.
    Reduced sales by our wholesale customers may lead to lower
    retail inventory levels, reduced orders from suppliers like VF,
    or order cancelations. Reduced sales by some of our wholesale
    customers, along with the possibility of their reduced access
    to, or inability to access, the credit markets, may result in
    various retailers experiencing significant financial
    difficulties. Financial difficulties of customers could result
    in reduced sales to those customers or could result in store
    closures, bankruptcies or liquidations. Higher credit risk
    relating to receivables from customers experiencing financial
    difficulty may result. If these developments occur, our
    inability to shift sales to other customers or to collect on
    VF’s trade accounts receivable could have a material
    adverse effect on VF’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    A growing portion of our revenues are
    direct-to-consumer
    through VF-operated retail stores and websites. It is possible
    that reduced consumer confidence, along with a reduction in
    availability of consumer credit and increasing unemployment, may
    lead to reduced purchases of VF’s products through
    VF-operated retail stores and websites. This could have a
    material adverse effect on VF’s financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    A
    substantial portion of VF’s revenues and gross profit is
    derived from a small number of large customers. The loss of any
    of these customers could substantially reduce VF’s
    profits.


 


    A few of VF’s customers account for a significant portion
    of revenues. Sales to VF’s ten largest customers were 26%
    of Total Revenues in fiscal 2008, with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc.
    accounting for 11% of revenues. Sales are generally on a
    purchase order basis, and we do not have long-term agreements
    with any of our customers. A decision by any of VF’s major
    customers to decrease significantly the number of products
    purchased from VF could substantially reduce revenues and have a
    material adverse effect on VF’s financial condition and
    results of operations. Moreover, in recent years, the retail
    industry has experienced consolidation and other ownership
    changes. In the future, retailers may further consolidate,
    undergo restructurings or reorganizations, realign their
    affiliations or reposition their stores’ target market.
    These developments could result in a reduction in the number of
    stores that carry VF’s products, increased ownership
    concentration within the retail industry, increased credit



    
    13



 




    exposure or increased retailer leverage over their suppliers.
    These changes could both impact VF’s opportunities in the
    market and increase VF’s reliance on a smaller number of
    large customers.


 



    The
    apparel industry is highly competitive, and VF’s success
    depends on its ability to respond to constantly changing fashion
    trends and consumer demand. Reduced sales or prices resulting
    from competition could have a material adverse effect on
    VF.


 


    VF competes with numerous brands and manufacturers of apparel.
    Some of our competitors may be larger and have more resources
    than VF in certain product categories. In addition, VF competes
    directly with the private label brands of its wholesale
    customers. VF’s ability to compete within the apparel and
    footwear industries depends on its ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Anticipate and respond to changing consumer trends in a timely
    manner;




 



     
        • 

    
    Develop attractive, quality products;




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintain favorable brand recognition;




 



     
        • 

    
    Price products appropriately;




 



     
        • 

    
    Provide effective marketing support;




 



     
        • 

    
    Ensure product availability and optimize supply chain
    efficiencies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Obtain sufficient retail floor space and effectively present its
    products at retail.





 


    The failure to compete effectively or to keep pace with rapidly
    changing markets and trends could have a material adverse effect
    on VF’s business, financial condition and results of
    operations. In addition, if we misjudge fashion trends and
    market conditions, we could be faced with significant excess
    inventories for some products that we may have to sell at a loss
    or missed opportunities that may result in lost sales.


 



    VF’s
    business is exposed to foreign currency
    fluctuations.


 


    Approximately 30% of VF’s Total Revenues is derived from
    international markets. VF’s foreign businesses operate in
    functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Assets,
    liabilities, revenues and expenses in these foreign businesses
    are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
    In addition, VF sources and manufactures most of its products
    overseas. As a result, the cost of these products may be
    affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies.
    Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the
    U.S. dollar value of the foreign currency denominated
    amounts at which VF’s international businesses purchase
    products, incur costs or sell products. Furthermore, much of
    VF’s licensing revenue is derived from sales in foreign
    currencies. Although we hedge some exposures to changes in
    foreign currency exchange rates arising in the ordinary course
    of business, foreign currency fluctuations could have a material
    adverse impact on VF’s financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    VF’s
    profitability may decline as a result of increasing pressure on
    margins.


 


    The apparel industry is subject to significant pricing pressure
    caused by many factors, including intense competition,
    consolidation in the retail industry, pressure from retailers to
    reduce the costs of products and changes in consumer demand.
    These factors may cause us to reduce our sales prices to
    retailers and consumers, which could cause VF’s gross
    margin to decline if we are unable to offset price reductions
    with comparable reductions in operating costs. If VF’s
    sales prices decline and we fail to sufficiently reduce our
    product costs or operating expenses, VF’s profitability
    will decline. This could have a material adverse effect on
    VF’s results of operations, liquidity and financial
    condition.


 



    Fluctuations
    in the price, availability and quality of raw materials could
    increase costs and cause service delays.


 


    Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of fabrics
    or other raw materials used by VF in its manufactured apparel
    could have a material adverse effect on VF’s cost of sales
    or its ability to meet its customers’ demands. The prices
    for such fabrics depend on demand and market prices for the raw
    materials used to produce them, particularly cotton. The price
    and availability of such raw materials may fluctuate
    significantly, depending on many factors, including crop yields
    and weather patterns. In the future, VF may not be able to pass
    all or a portion of such higher raw materials prices on to its
    customers.



    
    14



 





    VF has
    entered into license agreements to use the trademarks of others.
    Loss of a license could have an adverse effect on VF’s
    operating results.


 


    VF has entered into agreements to market products under licenses
    granted by third parties, including Major League Baseball, the
    National Football League and Harley-Davidson Motor Company, Inc.
    Some of these licenses are for a short term and do not contain
    renewal options. Loss of a license, which in certain cases could
    result in an impairment charge for related intangible assets,
    could have an adverse effect on VF’s operating results.


 



    VF may
    not succeed in implementing its growth strategy.


 


    One of our key strategic objectives is growth. We seek to grow
    through both organic growth and acquisitions, building new
    growing lifestyle brands, expanding our share with winning
    customers, stretching VF’s brands and customers to new
    geographies, fueling the growth by leveraging our supply chain
    and information technology capabilities across VF, expanding our
    direct-to-consumer
    business and building new growth enablers by identifying and
    developing high potential employees. We may not be able to grow
    our existing businesses or achieve planned cost savings from
    ongoing businesses. We may have difficulty identifying
    acquisition targets, and we may not be able to successfully
    integrate a newly acquired business or achieve expected cost
    savings or synergies from such integration. We may not be able
    to expand our market share with winning customers, expand our
    brands geographically or achieve the expected results from our
    supply chain initiatives. We may also have difficulty recruiting
    or developing qualified managers. Failure to implement our
    growth strategy may have a material adverse effect on VF’s
    business.


 



    VF
    borrows funds on a short-term basis, primarily to support
    seasonal working capital requirements. Long-term debt is part of
    VF’s total capital structure. Because of recent conditions
    in global credit markets, VF may have difficulty accessing the
    capital markets for short or long-term financing.


 


    During the last several months, the global capital and credit
    markets have been experiencing extreme levels of volatility and
    disruption, with government intervention, mergers or
    bankruptcies of several major financial institutions, and a
    general decline in global liquidity. Many corporate issuers have
    been unable to access credit markets.


 


    VF uses short-term commercial paper borrowings primarily to
    support seasonal working capital requirements, with amounts
    generally repaid by the end of each year from strong cash flows
    from operations. VF was able to continue to borrow in the
    commercial paper markets during 2008, and all commercial paper
    borrowings were repaid by the end of the year. In addition, VF
    may access the long-term capital markets to replace maturing
    debt obligations or to fund acquisition or other growth
    opportunities. There is no assurance that the commercial paper
    markets or the long-term capital markets will continue to be a
    reliable source of financing for VF.


 



    VF has
    committed domestic and international bank credit facilities.
    Because of the continued distress in the global capital markets,
    one or more of the participating banks may not be able to honor
    their commitments, which could have an adverse effect on
    VF’s business.


 


    If we were to have difficulty in accessing the short or
    long-term capital markets, VF has $1.3 billion of committed
    domestic and international bank credit facilities that expire in
    October 2012. Continued distress in the financial markets could
    impair the ability of one or more of the banks participating in
    our credit agreements from honoring their commitments. This
    could have an adverse effect on our business if we were not able
    to replace those commitments or to locate other sources of
    liquidity on acceptable terms.


 



    If VF
    encounters problems with its distribution system, VF’s
    ability to deliver its products to the market would be adversely
    affected.


 


    VF relies on its distribution facilities to warehouse and, using
    its own employees or in some cases independent contractors, to
    ship product to its customers. VF’s distribution system
    includes computer-controlled and automated equipment, which
    means its operations are complicated and may be subject to a
    number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the
    proper operation of software and hardware, electronic or power
    interruptions or other system failures. Because substantially
    all of VF’s products are distributed from a relatively
    small number of locations, VF’s operations could also be
    interrupted by earthquakes, floods, fires or other natural
    disasters near its distribution centers. We maintain business
    interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect VF
    from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant
    disruptions in VF’s distribution facilities, such as the
    long-term loss of customers or an erosion of brand image. In
    addition, VF’s distribution capacity is dependent on the
    timely performance of services by third parties, including the
    transportation of product to and from its distribution



    
    15



 




    facilities. If we encounter problems with our distribution
    system, our ability to meet customer expectations, manage
    inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating
    efficiencies could be materially adversely affected.


 



    VF
    relies significantly on information technology. Any inadequacy,
    interruption, integration failure or security failure of that
    technology could harm VF’s ability to effectively operate
    its business.


 


    Our ability to effectively manage and operate our business
    depends significantly on its information technology systems. The
    failure of these systems to operate effectively, problems with
    transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, difficulty in
    integrating new systems or systems of acquired businesses or a
    breach in security of these systems could adversely impact the
    operations of VF’s business. Moreover, VF and its customers
    could suffer harm if customer information were accessed by third
    parties due to a security failure in VF’s systems. It could
    also require significant expenditures to remediate any such
    failure, problem or breach.


 



    VF
    uses foreign suppliers and manufacturing facilities for a
    substantial portion of its raw materials and finished products,
    which poses risks to VF’s business
    operations.


 


    During fiscal 2008, approximately 77% of VF’s products sold
    were produced by and purchased or procured from independent
    manufacturers primarily located in Asia, with substantially all
    of the remainder produced by VF-owned and operated manufacturing
    facilities located in Eastern Europe, Mexico and Central
    America. Although no single supplier and no one country is
    critical to VF’s production needs, any of the following
    could materially and adversely affect our ability to produce or
    deliver VF products and, as a result, have a material adverse
    effect on VF’s business, financial condition and results of
    operations:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Political or labor instability in countries where VF’s
    facilities, contractors and suppliers are located;




 



     
        • 

    
    Political or military conflict, which could cause a delay in the
    transportation of raw materials and products to VF and an
    increase in transportation costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Heightened terrorism security concerns, which could subject
    imported or exported goods to additional, more frequent or more
    lengthy inspections, leading to delays in deliveries or
    impoundment of goods for extended periods or could result in
    decreased scrutiny by customs officials for counterfeit goods,
    leading to lost sales, increased costs for VF’s
    anticounterfeiting measures and damage to the reputation of its
    brands;




 



     
        • 

    
    Disease epidemics and health-related concerns, such as the SARS,
    bird flu, mad cow and
    hoof-and-mouth
    disease outbreaks in recent years, which could result in closed
    factories, reduced workforces, scarcity of raw materials and
    scrutiny or embargo of VF’s goods produced in infected
    areas;




 



     
        • 

    
    Imposition of regulations and quotas relating to imports and our
    ability to adjust timely to changes in trade regulations, which,
    among other things, could limit our ability to produce products
    in cost-effective countries that have the labor and expertise
    needed;




 



     
        • 

    
    Imposition of duties, taxes and other charges on
    imports; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Imposition or the repeal of laws that affect intellectual
    property rights.





 



    If
    VF’s suppliers fail to use acceptable ethical business
    practices, VF’s business could suffer.


 


    We require third party suppliers to operate in compliance with
    applicable laws, rules and regulations regarding working
    conditions, employment practices and environmental compliance.
    Additionally, we require all suppliers making VF-branded
    apparel, whether directly for VF or for its licensees, to comply
    with VF’s Terms of Engagement and Global Compliance
    Principles. Our staff and third parties retained for such
    purposes periodically visit and audit the operations of
    VF’s owned and operated facilities and those of independent
    contractors manufacturing product for VF to determine
    compliance. However, we do not control independent manufacturers
    or their labor and other business practices. If one of our
    independent contractors violates labor or other laws or
    implements labor or other business practices that are generally
    regarded as unethical in the United States, the shipment of
    finished products to VF could be interrupted, orders could be
    cancelled, relationships could be terminated, and VF’s
    reputation could be damaged. Any of these events could have a
    material adverse effect on VF’s revenues and, consequently,
    its results of operations.


 



    VF’s
    results of operations could be materially harmed if VF is unable
    to accurately forecast demand for its products.


 


    We often schedule internal production and place orders for
    products with independent manufacturers before our
    customers’ orders are firm. Therefore, if we fail to
    accurately forecast customer demand, we may experience



    
    16



 




    excess inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to
    our customers. Factors that could affect our ability to
    accurately forecast demand for our products include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    An increase or decrease in consumer demand for VF’s
    products or for products of its competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our failure to accurately forecast customer acceptance of new
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    New product introductions by competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unanticipated changes in general market conditions or other
    factors, which may result in cancelations of orders or a
    reduction or increase in the rate of reorders placed by
    retailers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Weak economic conditions or consumer confidence in future
    economic conditions, which could reduce demand for discretionary
    items such as VF’s products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorism or acts of war, or the threat of terrorism or acts of
    war, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and
    spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and
    raw materials.





 


    Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in
    inventory write-downs and the sale of excess inventory at
    discounted prices, which could have an adverse effect on
    VF’s results of operations and financial condition. In
    addition, if we underestimate demand for our products, our
    manufacturing facilities or third party manufacturers may not be
    able to produce products to meet customer requirements, and this
    could result in delays in the shipment of products and lost
    revenues, as well as damage to VF’s reputation and customer
    relationships. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
    successfully manage inventory demand to meet future order and
    reorder requirements.


 



    The
    loss of members of VF’s executive management and other key
    employees could have a material adverse effect on its
    business.


 


    VF depends on the services and management experience of its
    executive officers and business leaders who have substantial
    experience and expertise in VF’s business. VF also depends
    on other key employees involved in the operation of its
    business. Competition for qualified personnel in the apparel
    industry is intense. The unexpected loss of services of one or
    more of these individuals could have a material adverse effect
    on VF.


 



    VF may
    be unable to protect its trademarks and other intellectual
    property rights.


 


    VF’s trademarks and other intellectual property rights are
    important to its success and its competitive position. VF is
    susceptible to others imitating its products and infringing its
    intellectual property rights. With the shift in product mix to
    higher priced brands, VF is more susceptible to infringement of
    its intellectual property rights. Some of VF’s brands, such
    as The North
    Face®,

    Vans®,

    JanSport®,

    Nautica®,

    Wrangler®

    and
    Lee®

    brands, enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition, and
    the generally higher pricing of such products creates additional
    risk of counterfeiting and infringement.


 


    Infringement or counterfeiting of VF’s products or its
    other intellectual property rights could diminish the value of
    our brands or otherwise adversely affect VF revenues. Actions we
    have taken to establish and protect VF’s intellectual
    property rights may not be adequate to prevent imitation of its
    products by others or to prevent others from seeking to
    invalidate its trademarks or block sales of VF’s products
    as a violation of the trademarks and intellectual property
    rights of others. In addition, unilateral actions in the United
    States or other countries, such as changes to or the repeal of
    laws recognizing trademark or other intellectual property
    rights, could have an impact on VF’s ability to enforce
    those rights.


 


    The value of VF’s intellectual property could diminish if
    others assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other
    intellectual property rights of VF, or in trademarks that are
    similar to VF’s trademarks, or trademarks that VF licenses
    and/or
    markets. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of
    conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, there may be
    trademark owners who have prior rights to VF’s trademarks
    because the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect
    intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws
    of the United States. In other cases, there may be holders who
    have prior rights to similar trademarks. VF is from time to time
    involved in opposition and cancelation proceedings with respect
    to some items of its intellectual property.


 



    VF
    obtains licensing royalties and relies on its licensees to
    maintain the value of its brands.


 


    Only a relatively small portion of VF’s revenues,
    $81.0 million or 1.1%, was derived from licensing royalties
    in 2008. Although VF generally has significant control over its
    licensee products and advertising, we rely on them for, among
    other things, operational and financial controls over their
    businesses. Failure of our licensees to successfully market
    licensed products or our inability to replace existing licensees
    could adversely affect VF’s revenues, both



    
    17



 




    directly from reduced royalties received and indirectly from
    reduced sales of our other products. Risks are also associated
    with a licensee’s ability to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Obtain capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    Manage its labor relations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintain relationships with its suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Manage its credit risk effectively; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Maintain relationships with its customers.





 


    In addition, VF relies on its licensees to help preserve the
    value of its brands. Although we make every attempt to protect
    VF’s brands through, among other things, approval rights
    over design, production processes and quality, packaging,
    merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of its
    products, we cannot completely control the use of licensed VF
    brands by our licensees. The misuse of a brand by a licensee
    could have a material adverse effect on that brand and on VF.


 



    VF’s
    balance sheet includes a significant amount of intangible assets
    and goodwill. A decline in the estimated fair value of an
    intangible asset or of a business unit could result in an asset
    impairment charge, which would be recorded as an operating
    expense in VF’s Consolidated Statement of
    Income.


 


    Under current accounting standards, we estimate the fair value
    of acquired assets, including intangible assets, and assumed
    liabilities arising from a business acquisition. The excess, if
    any, of the cost of the acquired business over the fair value of
    net tangible assets acquired is goodwill. The goodwill is then
    assigned to a business unit or “reporting unit” within
    VF, which depends on whether the acquired business will be
    operated as a separate business unit or integrated into an
    existing VF business unit.


 


    At December 2008, VF had approximately $0.9 billion of
    trademark intangible assets and $1.3 billion of goodwill on
    its balance sheet. These assets are not required to be amortized
    under current accounting rules. In addition, VF had
    approximately $0.4 billion of intangible assets that are
    being amortized under current accounting rules. The combined
    amounts represent 42% of VF’s Total Assets and 75% of
    Common Stockholders’ Equity.


 


    Trademark intangible assets that are not amortized and goodwill
    must be tested for impairment at least annually. The impairment
    test requires us to estimate the fair value of VF’s
    business units and related intangible assets, primarily using
    discounted cash flow methodologies based on forecasted revenues
    and cash flows that will be derived from a business unit or
    trademark. Intangible assets that are being amortized must be
    tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate
    that their carrying value might not be recoverable.


 


    The fair value of a business unit could decline if forecasted
    revenues or cash flows were to be lower in the future due to
    effects of the global recession or other causes. If the carrying
    value of intangible assets or of goodwill were to exceed its
    fair value, the asset would be written down to its fair value,
    with the impairment loss recognized as a noncash charge in the
    Consolidated Statement of Income. We have not had any impairment
    charges in the last three years, other than the 2006 loss on
    disposal of our intimate apparel business (accounted for as
    discontinued operations). However, changes in the future outlook
    of a business unit could result in an impairment loss, which
    could have a material adverse effect on VF’s results of
    operations and financial condition.


 



    VF’s
    defined benefit pension plans were underfunded at the end of
    2008 due primarily to the effects of the global financial and
    credit market crisis that began in 2008. This resulted in a
    charge to Common Stockholders’ Equity in our Consolidated
    Balance Sheet and a significant increase in our 2009 pension
    expense. If the pension plan investments were to decline in
    value, or if the level of interest rates were to decline from
    the current level, the pension plans would be further
    underfunded, resulting in an additional charge to Common
    Stockholders’ Equity and higher pension expense in future
    years.


 


    VF’s qualified defined benefit pension plan swung from
    being overfunded at the end of 2007 to significantly underfunded
    at the end of 2008. This underfunded status was due primarily to
    the decline in the value of pension plan assets with the general
    turmoil in the global securities markets in 2008. The
    underfunded status resulted in recognition of
    $414.9 million of liabilities and a $291.0 million
    after-tax charge to Common Stockholders’ Equity at the end
    of 2008. For financial accounting, differences between actual
    investment returns and the actuarially assumed investment return
    are deferred and amortized to future years’ pension cost.
    Our pension cost will increase from $10.8 million in 2008
    to approximately $98 million in 2009 primarily due to
    amortization of these deferred actuarial losses.



    
    18



 




    The level of interest rates drives the discount rate used to
    value the plans’ projected benefit obligations. In general,
    a decrease in interest rates would result in a greater present
    value of future benefit obligations, while an increase in
    interest rates would result in a smaller present value of future
    benefit obligations.


 


    A further decrease in the value of pension plan assets or a
    decrease in interest rates could result in a further decline in
    the plans’ funded status. In that case, VF would recognize
    additional liabilities and additional charges to Common
    Stockholders’ Equity in our Consolidated Balance Sheet and
    higher pension expense in future years.


 


    If current market conditions persist, VF would be required to
    make substantial cash funding contributions to the plan,
    beginning in 2010, to return the plan to a fully funded status
    over the next few years.


 



    RISKS
    APPLICABLE TO THE APPAREL INDUSTRY


 



    VF’s
    revenues and profits depend on the level of consumer spending
    for apparel, which is sensitive to general economic conditions
    and other factors affecting consumer confidence.


 


    The apparel industry has historically been subject to cyclical
    variations and is particularly affected by adverse trends in the
    general economy. The success of VF’s business depends on
    consumer spending. Consumer spending is influenced by a number
    of factors, including actual and perceived economic conditions
    affecting disposable consumer income (such as unemployment and
    wages), business conditions, interest rates, housing costs,
    energy prices, availability of credit and tax rates in the
    international, national, regional and local markets where
    VF’s products are sold. Any significant deterioration in
    general economic conditions, recession or increases in interest
    rates could reduce the level of consumer spending and inhibit
    consumers’ use of credit. A significant decline in the
    securities markets could materially affect consumer confidence,
    the financial condition of VF’s customers and VF’s
    operating costs through higher contributions to its pension
    plan. In addition, natural disasters, war, terrorist activity or
    the threat of war or terrorist activity could adversely affect
    consumer spending and thereby have a material adverse effect on
    VF’s financial condition and results of operations.


 



    VF’s
    ability to sell products in international markets may be
    affected by legal, regulatory, political and economic
    risks.


 


    Our ability to maintain the current level of operations in our
    existing international markets and to capitalize on growth in
    new international markets is subject to risks associated with
    international operations. These include the burdens of complying
    with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, unexpected
    changes in regulatory requirements, new tariffs or other
    barriers to some international markets.


 


    We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes or other similar
    restrictions will be imposed by the United States, the European
    Union or other countries upon the import or export of our
    products in the future, or what effect any of these actions
    would have on VF’s business, financial condition or results
    of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and
    other factors may adversely affect VF’s business or may
    require us to modify our current business practices.






 




    
    



    
    Item 1B