Item 1A.  Risk Factors.        

        A wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. We consider the risks described below to be the most significant.
There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. 

Our Success is Dependent upon Audience Acceptance of Our Programs and Films which is Difficult to Predict  

        Entertainment content and feature film production and distribution are inherently risky businesses because the revenues derived from the production and
distribution of a cable program or feature film, and the licensing of rights to the intellectual property associated with a program or film, depend 

I-19




 


primarily
upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a cable program or feature film also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing
programs and films released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other
tangible and intangible factors, many of which are also difficult to predict. Audience sizes for our cable networks are also factors that are weighed when deciding on the advertising rates and the
renegotiation of affiliate rates that we receive. Poor ratings in targeted demographics can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. Further, the theatrical success of a feature film
may impact revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, and sales of licensed consumer products. Consequently, low public acceptance of our cable
programs and feature films will have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

A Decline in Advertising Expenditures Could Cause Our Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets  

        We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on our cable networks. A decline in advertising expenditures could significantly adversely affect our
revenues and operating results in any given period or in specific markets. A decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers'
spending priorities. Disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of economic uncertainty. In addition,
advertising expenditures may also be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors
of the economy, including the children's toys and entertainment sectors, represent a sizeable portion of our advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change may result in
a reduction of these sectors' advertising expenditures. For example, at least one company has announced its intention to shift its advertising focus away from children under 12 years of age in
response to concerns about child obesity and unhealthy eating. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 

Our Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries  

        Participants in the cable and motion picture industries depend primarily upon the sale of advertising, revenues generated by the distribution of feature films and
affiliate fees to generate revenue. Competition for viewers, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast networks and specialty cable channels; movie studios and independent film
producers and distributors; local, regional and national newspapers; online activities; video gaming; direct mail; and other communications and advertising media that operate in these markets. In
particular, online search engines have seen significant advertising growth, a portion of which is derived from traditional cable network advertisers. In addition, there has been consolidation in the
media industry and our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a
number of factors, including our ability to provide high quality and popular cable programs and motion pictures and our ability to achieve high distribution levels. In addition, cable providers and
DTH satellite operators have developed new techniques that allow them to transmit more channels on their existing equipment to highly targeted audiences, reducing the cost of creating channels and
potentially leading to the division of the television marketplace into more specialized niche audiences. More television options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming
to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future
against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

I-20




 

The Loss of Affiliation Agreements Could Cause Our Revenues to Decline in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets  


        We are dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with cable and DTH satellite operators for the distribution of our cable networks. Certain BET,
BET J and MTV affiliation agreements have recently expired and are currently being negotiated. There can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms
acceptable to us. The loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on the most widely penetrated programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our cable networks,
which may adversely affect our
advertising and affiliate fee revenues. In addition, further consolidation among cable and DTH satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast
network business could adversely affect our ability to negotiate the launch of new networks or the ability to maintain existing distribution or obtain additional distribution for existing networks. In
a more concentrated market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain carriage of our programming services by distributors on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. 

Box Office Receipts and DVD Sales Have Recently Been Declining, Which May Adversely Affect Our Prospects and Results of Operations  

        Several factors, including piracy, growing competition for consumer discretionary spending and low audience acceptance, may be contributing to a recent
industry-wide decline in box office receipts and in declining or, in some cases, flattening DVD sales. According to Adams Media Research, domestic sales of DVDs increased by 5.4% in 2004
but decreased by 2.6% in 2005. Internationally, DVD sales increased by 16% in 2004 but showed no change in 2005, according to Screen Digest. Our ability to sell our DVDs could also be affected by the
influence of several large retailers, whose decisions as to placement and removal of our DVDs could have a significant impact on our revenues from sales of DVDs. A continuing decline in attendance by
moviegoers and in DVD sales could have a substantial adverse impact on our results of operations and growth prospects. 

Our Revenues and Operating Results Are Subject to Cyclical and Seasonal Variations  


        Our revenues and operating results fluctuate due to the timing and availability of theatrical and home entertainment releases and of programming for syndication
and cable exhibition and the timing of the beginning of the license periods for television exhibition of motion pictures. Our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of
production costs and the possible later recognition of related revenues. In addition, the success of our individual titles may vary, causing our operating results to fluctuate. 

        Our
business has experienced and is expected to continue to experience some seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on people's
viewing and listening habits and attendance. Typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter and revenue from feature films increases in the summer. The effect of such
seasonality makes it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. 

We Must Respond to and Capitalize on Rapid Changes in Technology, Services and Standards in Order to Remain Competitive and Exploit New Opportunities  

        Technology in the video, telecommunications and data services used in the entertainment industry is changing rapidly. Advances in technologies or alternative
methods of product delivery and storage or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery and storage could have a negative effect on our business.
Examples of such advances in technologies include video-on-demand, new video formats and downloading from the Internet. For example, devices that allow users to view cable
programs or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and technologies which enable users to fast-forward or skip advertisements may 

I-21




 


cause
changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. We may not have the right, and may not be
able to secure the right, to distribute some of our licensed content across these, or any other, new platforms. 


        In
addition, the ability to capitalize on a variety of distribution platforms for our programming and films, including new technologies, is one of our key business strategies. The
ability to anticipate and exploit these new and future sources of revenue from technological developments will affect our ability to continue to grow and increase our revenue and expand our business. 

Increased Programming and Content Costs May Adversely Affect Our Profits  

        We produce programming and incur costs for all types of creative talent including actors, writers and producers, and for new show concepts. We also acquire
programming, such as movies and television series, from television production companies and movie studios. An increase in the costs of programming may lead to decreased profitability. 

        An
increase in licensing costs could also affect our profits. For example, we license music videos for exhibition on our cable channels and other programming or content services from
record companies in exchange for cash and advertising time or for promotional consideration only. We have entered into global music video licensing agreements with certain major record companies and
into global or regional license agreements with certain independent record companies. We also license various other music rights from record companies, music publishers, performing rights societies
and others. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain license renewals or additional license agreements and, if so, on favorable terms. There can also be no assurance that we will be
able to secure the rights to distribute the content of our licenses over new platforms on acceptable terms. If we fail to obtain such extensions, renewals or agreements on acceptable terms and
consequently cannot obtain licensing rights for content needed in our operations, our revenue or costs may be adversely affected. 

Our Cable Networks Are Included with CBS Corporation's Programming under Certain of Our Affiliation Agreements, and New Affiliation Agreements May Be More Difficult to
Negotiate  

        Former Viacom was party to affiliation agreements with cable and DTH satellite operators pursuant to which both our cable networks and CBS Corporation's
television programming were carried by these distributors. After these agreements expire, our cable networks will no longer be included with CBS Corporation's programming. Certain BET, BET J and MTV
affiliation agreements have recently expired. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate new affiliation agreements with these distributors on terms as favorable as was previously
possible. 

Changes in U.S. or Foreign Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business  


        The multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the United States are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and
administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. For example, federal legislation and FCC rules limit the amount and content of commercial material that may be shown on video programming
channels during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. In November 2004, the FCC issued new rules that classify promotions on a channel for programs aired on that
channel as commercial matter unless the programs being promoted are educational or informational as defined under FCC rules, and that limit the display during children's programming of the Internet
addresses of websites that contain or link to commercial material or that use characters from the program on which the website address is displayed to sell products or services. If retained without
modification, these rules could have an adverse impact on our children's programming channels, including Nickelodeon and Nick Jr., because they would force a reduction of promotional or advertising
time during this programming and would limit our ability to promote our program-related websites that contain commercial material. Children's advocacy groups 

I-22




 


and
industry parties, including our company, have agreed to a proposal to modify these rules. The FCC has postponed implementation of the rule changes while it considers the proposal. The proposed
rule modifications would mitigate the adverse impacts of the FCC's rules on our company. However, there can be no assurance that the FCC will ultimately adopt these proposals. 

        In
addition, the U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that
could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of our U.S. media properties. For example, some policymakers support the extension of indecency rules applicable to
over-the-air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite operators. If such an extension took place and was not found to be unconstitutional, our content could be subject to
additional regulation. Similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in
which we, or entities in which we have an interest, operate could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to expand these operations beyond their current scope. 

Requirements that Cable Operators Create Family Friendly Tiers or Offer Programming on an A La Carte Basis May Decrease the Distribution of Our Networks to Cable Television
Subscribers and Materially Affect Our Results of Operations  

        Certain policymakers maintain that cable operators should be required to offer programming to subscribers on a network-by-network, or
à la carte, basis or to provide "family friendly" program tiers. Certain distributors have recently launched "family-friendly" tiers to their customers that may or may not include some
or all of our networks. In addition, the FCC recently issued a report finding consumers would benefit if cable operators were required to offer programming on an à la carte basis. The
unbundling or tiering of program services could materially reduce distribution of certain of our channels, thereby leading to reduced viewership and increased marketing expenses, and could affect our
ability to compete for or attract the same level of advertising dollars. Any decline in subscribers could lead to a loss in our advertising sales and affiliate fees and a reduction in payments by
cable and DTH satellite operators. 

Piracy of Our Motion Pictures, Intellectual Property and Other Content, Including Digital and Internet Piracy, May Decrease Revenue Received from the Exploitation of Our Cable
Television Programs and Films and Adversely Affect Our Business and Profitability  

        The success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain the intellectual property rights to our products and services. Piracy of motion pictures,
television programming, video content and DVDs as well as other intellectual property is prevalent in many parts of the world and is made easier by technological advances allowing conversion of motion
pictures, television programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies of motion pictures and other
content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products may have an adverse effect on our business and profitability because these products reduce the revenue that we
potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content. In addition, if piracy were to increase, it would have an adverse effect on business and profitability. 

The Loss of Key Personnel, Including Talent, Could Disrupt the Management and Operations of Our Business and Adversely Affect Our Revenues  

        Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our President and Chief Executive Officer and other key employees and entertainment
personalities. We believe that the unique combination of skills and experience possessed by our key executives would be difficult to replace, and that the loss of our key executives could have a
material adverse effect on us, including the impairment of our ability to execute our business strategy. Additionally, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal
audiences. These personalities are sometimes important 

I-23




 


to
achieving current levels of viewership. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current audiences. If we fail to retain these individuals or our
entertainment personalities lose their current audiences, our revenues could be adversely affected. 

We Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity  

        We and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining
agreements. If we or our suppliers are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages.
Such actions, higher costs in connection with these agreements or a significant labor dispute could adversely affect our business by causing delays in the production, the release date or by reducing
the profit margins of our cable programs or feature films. 

Political and Economic Risks Associated with Our Businesses Could Harm Our Financial Condition  

        Our businesses operate and have customers worldwide. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic
environment, export restrictions, exchange controls, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. We may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or
changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where we do business. Acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could
lead to a reduction in advertising and other revenue, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 

The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Facilities that We Depend Upon to Distribute Our Programming Could Materially Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of
Operations  

        We use satellite systems to transmit our cable networks to cable systems and other distributors worldwide. The distribution facilities include uplinks,
communications satellites and downlinks. Transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a
satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution
facilities in a timely manner. Failure to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 

We Could Suffer Losses Due to Asset Impairment Charges for Goodwill and Intangible Assets  

        In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which we refer to in this annual report as
"SFAS 142," we will test goodwill and intangible assets for impairment during the fourth quarter of each year, and on an interim date should factors or indicators become apparent that would
require an interim test. A downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit or intangible assets could result in an impairment under SFAS 142 and a non-cash charge would be
required. Any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in the expected popularity of the feature films or other content we produce, could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of such
assets. Any such charge could have a material effect on our reported net earnings. 

Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations  


        Certain of our revenues are earned and expenses are incurred in foreign currencies. The value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the U.S. dollar. As a
result, we are exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 

I-24






<A
NAME="page_dk2228_1_25">  



Our Liabilities Related to Lease Guarantees and Litigation Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Condition  


        We have both recognized and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential
liabilities to landlords if Blockbuster should default on certain store leases entered into prior to Blockbuster's initial public offering in 1999, and pending and threatened litigation. We cannot
assure you that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these liabilities may come due.
Therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 


If the Integration of DreamWorks into Our Business Does Not Yield Expected Benefits, or If Our Transition to a New Distribution Infrastructure in International Theatrical and
Worldwide Television Markets Does Not Fully Succeed, Our Results of Operations Could Be Adversely Impacted  

        We acquired DreamWorks LLC on January 31, 2006. If the integration of DreamWorks, including its motion pictures, employees and information systems, into
our business is not fully successful or does not yield expected benefits to Paramount's business, our expected results of operations could be adversely impacted. We also are developing our television
market sales capabilities, restructuring our international distribution operations and retaining a greater proportion of international rights to our film product. Any failure to fully succeed in
developing our television market sales capabilities, restructuring our international distribution operations or capitalizing on the international rights we retain could adversely affect our results of
operations. In addition, while we are well along in our discussions regarding the sale of most of the DreamWorks live-action film library, there can be no assurance that a sale will be consummated in
a timely manner or at all. 

NAI, Through Its Voting Control of Viacom, is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval and May Have Interests that are Different than Yours  

        NAI, through its beneficial ownership of our Class A common stock, has voting control of Viacom. Mr. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling
stockholder, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of NAI, serves as Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors and Founder, and Ms. Shari Redstone, the President and
a director of NAI, serves as non-executive Vice
Chair of our Board of Directors. In addition, Messrs. Abrams and Dauman are directors of both NAI and Viacom. NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require
stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. The interests of NAI may not be the same as yours and you will be unable to affect the outcome
of our corporate actions for so long as NAI retains voting control. 

Risks Related to our Separation from CBS Corporation  

Our Historical and Pro Forma Financial Information May Not Be Indicative of Our Results as a Separate Company  

        The historical and pro forma financial information presented in this Form 10-K relating to periods prior to our separation from CBS Corporation
may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been operating as a stand-alone entity during the periods presented or what our
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be in the future. As a result, historical and pro forma financial information should not be relied upon as being indicative of our future
results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 

Our Business and Other Businesses Which Are Controlled By Sumner Redstone, Including CBS Corporation, Are and Will Continue to Be Attributable to Each Other for Certain
Regulatory Purposes  

        So long as we and CBS Corporation are under common control, each company's businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, such as
NAI, NAIRI and Midway 

I-25




 


Games, Inc.,
which is also controlled by Mr. Redstone, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of U.S. and non-U.S. antitrust rules and regulations, certain
rules and regulations of the FCC, and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the United States, among others. The businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the
other companies for FCC purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses
and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to our company. 

The Separation Agreement Between CBS Corporation and Us Prohibits Us from Engaging in Certain Types of Businesses  

        Under the terms of the Separation Agreement, we generally agreed that we will not own or acquire certain interests in specified types of media companies if such
ownership would cause CBS Corporation to be in violation of U.S. federal laws limiting the ownership of broadcast licenses or if it would limit CBS Corporation's ability under these laws to acquire
television or radio stations or television networks. Additionally, we may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind CBS Corporation or
subjects CBS Corporation to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without CBS Corporation's consent. We and CBS Corporation have agreed that prior to the earliest of
(1) the fourth anniversary of the separation, (2) the date on which none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have
interests in both CBS Corporation and Viacom that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors
that it owns as of the separation, neither of them will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to U.S. federal laws regulating
contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. These restrictions could limit the strategic business
alternatives available to us. 

The Tax Matters Agreement and the Tax Rules Applicable to the Separation May Restrict Our Ability to Engage in Certain Corporate Transactions  

        In connection with the separation, we entered into a Tax Matters Agreement, effective upon the consummation of the separation. The Tax Matters Agreement provides,
among other things, that, depending on the event, we may have to indemnify CBS Corporation for some or all of the taxes resulting from the merger and the distribution of our common stock in the merger
if the merger and distribution do not qualify as a tax-free distribution under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code. In addition, the current U.S. federal income tax law creates a presumption
that the distribution of our common stock in the merger would be taxable to CBS Corporation, but not to its stockholders, if we engage in, or enter into an agreement to engage in, a transaction that
would result in a 50% or greater change, by vote or value, in our stock ownership during the four-year period that begins two years before the date of the separation, unless it is
established that the transaction was not undertaken pursuant to a plan or series of transactions related to the separation. The Treasury Regulations currently in effect generally provide that whether
such distribution is part of a plan is determined based on all of the facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, specific factors described in the Treasury Regulations. In addition, the
Treasury Regulations provide several "safe harbors" for acquisition transactions that are not considered to be part of a plan. The indemnification obligations set forth in the Tax Matters Agreement
and the above-described provisions of the tax law may prevent us from entering into transactions which might be advantageous to our stockholders, such as issuing equity securities to satisfy financing
needs or acquiring businesses or assets with equity securities, and may make us less attractive to a potential acquiror and reduce the possibility that an acquiror will propose or seek to effect
certain transactions with us. 

I-26




 

We Rely on CBS Corporation's Performance under Various Agreements among the Companies  

        In connection with the separation, we entered into various agreements, including the Separation Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement and a Transition Services
Agreement pursuant to which we will provide certain specified services to CBS Corporation following the separation, and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which we will provide services
and products to CBS Corporation from and after the separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the distribution of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations of Viacom and CBS Corporation
following the separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related
responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations have been assumed by, each of us and CBS Corporation. Each company will rely on the other company to satisfy its performance and
payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by us or CBS Corporation under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other
company. If CBS Corporation were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we could suffer
operational difficulties or significant losses. 

Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest  

        The management and directors of Viacom and CBS Corporation own both our common stock and CBS Corporation common stock, and both Viacom and CBS Corporation are
controlled by NAI. Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of NAI, serves as our Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors
and Founder and Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder of CBS Corporation. Ms. Redstone, the President and a director of NAI, serves as non-executive Vice Chair of
the Board of Directors of both Viacom and CBS Corporation. Messrs. Abrams and Dauman are directors of NAI, and Mr. Dauman serves as a director of both Viacom and CBS Corporation and
Mr. Abrams serves as a director of Viacom. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when Viacom's and CBS
Corporation's management, directors and controlling stockholder face decisions that could have different implications for Viacom and CBS Corporation. For example, potential conflicts of interest could
arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between Viacom and CBS Corporation regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship between Viacom and CBS
Corporation thereafter. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we and CBS Corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future. Each of Mr. Redstone,
Ms. Redstone and Mr. Dauman may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of his or her time between us and CBS Corporation. 

        Our
certificate of incorporation and the CBS Corporation certificate of incorporation each contains provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to CBS
Corporation Our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of ours who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of CBS
Corporation acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both Viacom and CBS Corporation, such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to us or CBS
Corporation or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary
duties to us and our stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to CBS Corporation. These provisions create
the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. 

I-27




 

We Have a New Operating Structure and New Members of Management at Viacom Corporate and Paramount Pictures  


        The separation of Former Viacom into CBS Corporation and Viacom involved the division of Former Viacom's businesses. In connection with the separation, many
jointly-held assets and operating systems as well as personnel were allocated between the companies, in particular at Paramount Pictures and in Former Viacom's corporate offices, and new
related party agreements were entered into to govern the ongoing business relationships between the companies following the separation. Viacom corporate and Paramount Pictures have senior management
teams that include several executives who were hired relatively recently or who recently assumed all or a substantial part of their current responsibilities. There can therefore be no assurance that
we will be successful under these conditions. 

<A
NAME="dk2228_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments."> 
 
Item 1B