. Risk Factors.A wide range of risks may affect our business and financial condition and results of operations, now and in the future. We consider the risks described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results.The Company’s Business, Results of Operations and Stock Prices May Be Adversely Affected by the Uncertainty Stemming from Ongoing Transitions Involving Our Board and Management and Related Changes in Strategy, including a Potential Business Combination with CBS and the Recent Creation of our Global Entertainment Group Within our Media Networks SegmentThe recent and highly public controversy relating to the Company’s governance created a significant degree of uncertainty with respect to the Company and we have undergone significant transitions on our Board and among our senior management.  For example, our former Executive Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer resigned effective August 18, 2016.  His successor, our interim President and Chief Executive Officer, subsequently informed our Board of his decision to remain in the position until November 15, 2016 and to depart the Company thereafter, and on October 31, 2016 we announced that Robert Bakish had been appointed Acting President and Chief Executive Officer as of November 15, 2016.In addition, on September 29, 2016, our Board received a letter from National Amusements requesting that our Board explore a potential combination of Viacom and CBS. Subsequently, our Board formed a special committee of independent directors to consider the request from National Amusements and any proposed transaction, and the special committee has hired independent legal and financial advisers. We are subject to various uncertainties and risks related to a potential combination with CBS, including that an agreement may or may not be reached with CBS or may take an uncertain amount of time; that such a transaction would not necessarily require approval of our stockholders other than National Amusements; that terms of any potential transaction with CBS (including the applicable price and/or exchange ratio) are not known; and that the effect of any potential transaction (or absence of a transaction) on the Company and its business cannot be ascertained at this time.Also, we announced on October 31, 2016 the creation of our Global Entertainment Group as a new brand group within our Media Networks segment to combine VIMN, our former Music & Entertainment Group (which included MTV, Comedy Central, VH1, Spike and Logo), as well as TV Land and CMT.  We also announced that our former Kids & Family Group 20Table of Contentswould be reestablished as the Nickelodeon Group to exploit growth opportunities in all facets of the kids segment, including recreation and hospitality.Some or all of the foregoing factors have had and/or may have an adverse impact on the Company’s ability to negotiate contractual arrangements on commercially advantageous terms; to attract, retain and motivate key management and employees; to access the capital markets on the most cost-efficient terms; and otherwise to operate its business in the most efficient manner. Some or all of these factors have caused and/or may cause volatility in our stock price, have imposed and/or may impose significant demands on the time of senior management and have had and/or may have an adverse impact on the business operations, financial position and results of operations of the Company.  Our Success is Dependent upon Public Acceptance of our Brands, Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Entertainment Content, which is Difficult to PredictConsumer acceptance of our brands, entertainment content and retail offerings is key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. The production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on the public’s acceptance of our content, which is difficult to predict. Consumer acceptance of our content is affected by our ability to maintain or develop strong brand awareness and target key audiences, the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content and the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, including online, mobile and other offerings. Audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at any point in time. We invest substantial capital in our content, including in the production of original content on our networks and in our motion pictures, before learning the extent to which it will garner consumer acceptance. In addition, general economic conditions affect our audience’s discretionary spending and therefore their willingness to access our content.In our Media Networks business, consumer acceptance of our brands and programming has a significant impact on the revenues we are able to generate from advertising, affiliate fees, consumer products, and other licensing activities. Our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside the U.S. also impacts our ability to expand our presence internationally.In our Filmed Entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment, television, various other platforms and apps and licensed consumer products.As a result, a lack of consumer acceptance of our offerings could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular period or longer term.Deficiencies in Audience Measurement on Various Platforms Adversely Impacts Our Program Ratings and Adversely Affects Our Advertising and Affiliate RevenuesAdvertising sales are largely dependent on audience measurement, and the results of audience measurement techniques can vary for a variety of reasons, including the platforms on which viewing is measured and variations in the employed statistical sampling methods. While Nielsen’s statistical sampling method is the primary measurement technique used in our television advertising sales, we measure and monetize our campaign reach and frequency on and across digital platforms based on other third-party data as well as first-party data using a variety of methods including the number of impressions served and demographics. In addition, multi-platform campaign verification remains in its infancy, and viewership on tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices, which continues to grow rapidly, still is not measured by any one consistently applied method. These variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues.In our Media Networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of measured audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions and are impacted by measurement difficulties. Depending on the success of our programming at any given time, one or more of our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. The use of new ratings and measurement technologies, and viewership on platforms or devices that is not being measured, could have an impact on our measured audience size. For example, while C-3, a current television industry ratings system, measures live commercial viewing plus three days of DVR and video-on-demand playback, the growing viewership occurring on subsequent days of DVR and video-on-demand playback is excluded from C-3 ratings. Poor ratings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending. Low audience ratings can also negatively affect our ability to negotiate higher affiliate fees and/or limit a network’s distribution potential.21Table of ContentsChanges in Consumer Behavior Resulting from New Technologies and Distribution Platforms May Affect Our Viewership and Profitability in Unpredictable WaysTechnology and business models in our industry continue to evolve rapidly. Consumer behavior related to changes in content distribution and technological innovation affect our economic model and viewership in ways that are not entirely predictable.Consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from traditional distributors, from connected apps and websites and on a wide variety of screens, such as televisions, tablets, mobile phones and other devices. Time-shifting technologies that enable users to fast-forward or skip programming, including commercials, affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. Similarly, new advertising blocking technologies that enable consumers to circumvent online advertisements could also adversely affect our advertising revenues as they impact the attractiveness of our digital offerings to advertisers. In addition, the evolution of consumer preferences away from rental and purchase services towards subscription services may have an economic impact on our revenues that is not completely predictable.New technologies and distribution platforms are having other effects on the marketplace. Some distributors have taken steps to limit our direct access to consumers or taken positions that they have more expansive rights than we believe we have granted, which, if they prevail, could limit our revenue opportunities. All of these factors create uncertainty in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the strategies we develop to address them will be effective.Our Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive IndustriesCompanies in the cable network, motion picture, digital and consumer product industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. Competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks (including our own), online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, consumer products companies and other entertainment outlets and platforms, as well as from search, social networks, program guides and “second screen” applications. Competition also comes from pirated content. Increased competition from additional entrants into the market for development and production of original programming, such as Netflix, Amazon and Hulu, increases our content costs as creating competing high quality, original content can require significant investment. Increased competition in the acquisition of programming may also lead to more complex negotiations over acquired rights to the content and the value of the rights we acquire or retain cannot be predicted with certainty in the future.Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. More content consumption options increase competition for viewers as well as for programming and creative talent, which can decrease our audience ratings, and therefore potentially our advertising revenues, as well as increase our costs. In addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses that are often vertically integrated, whereas our Media Networks businesses generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. As more cable and satellite operators, Internet service providers, other content distributors, aggregators and search providers create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. Our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.Advertising Market Conditions Could Cause Our Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific MarketsWe derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. The strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers’ current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect our advertising revenues. Natural and other disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures as a result of disrupted programming and services, uninterrupted news coverage and economic uncertainty. Our ability to generate advertising revenue is also dependent on demand for our content, the consumers in our targeted demographics, advertising rates and results observed by advertisers. In addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending 22Table of Contentstoward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through automated purchasing, dynamic advertising insertion, third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges, some or all of which may not be as advantageous to the Company as current advertising methods.Advertising expenditures may also be affected by regulatory, social or technological change. For example, Federal legislators and regulators have proposed voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. In addition, privacy regulations make it difficult to measure viewership by children. The threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny that deters certain advertisers from advertising could adversely affect advertising sales and revenue.Theft of Our Content, Including Digital Copyright Theft and Other Unauthorized Exhibitions of Our Content, May Decrease Revenue Received from Our Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Entertainment Content and Adversely Affect Our Businesses and ProfitabilityThe success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights in our entertainment content. We are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment products, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property affects us and the value of our content. Copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the U.S. and Europe and/or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. Such foreign copyright theft often creates a supply of pirated content for major markets as well. The interpretation of copyright, piracy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux, and some methods of copyright enforcement have encountered political opposition. The failure to appropriately enforce and/or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value.Content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine encryption and other security features and enable infringers to cloak their identities online. In addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content. The increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. For example, new mobile broadcasting tools enable users to livestream content, including copyrighted content, which can lead to content theft and could have an adverse impact on the monetization of our content. Unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows as well as a reduction in legitimate audiences, which would likely have significant adverse effects on the value of the affected programming.Copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels, reduces the public's perceived value of our content and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. While legal protections exist, piracy and technological tools with which to engage in copyright theft continue to escalate, evolve and present challenges for enforcement. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. Efforts to prevent the unauthorized reproduction, distribution and exhibition of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business.Increased Costs for Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Rights, and Judgments We Make on the Potential Performance of our Content, May Adversely Affect Our Profits and Balance SheetIn our Media Networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and other content and continue to invest significantly in this area. The Filmed Entertainment segment’s core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which are significant. We also acquire programming, motion pictures and television series, as well as a variety of digital content and other ancillary rights such as consumer and home entertainment product offerings from other companies, and we pay license fees, royalties and/or contingent compensation in connection with these acquired rights. Our investments in original and acquired programming are significant and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. These costs may not be recouped when the content is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write-downs. Further, rapid changes in consumer behavior have increased the risk associated with all kinds of programming.23Table of ContentsThe accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming, motion pictures and other content requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, it may result in the accelerated recognition of the expense and/or write down of the value of the asset. For example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors, and we then update our estimate of ultimate revenues, including following a film’s initial domestic theatrical release, based on expected future and actual results. If we reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, it may result in the accelerations of capitalized film cost amortization. Similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our media networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program costs.An increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. For example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. Some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. There can be no assurance that our cost-containment efforts will be as effective as we would like or that we will recoup our investments in programming or motion pictures, which may negatively affect our profitability.Our Revenues, Expenses and Operating Results May Vary Based on the Timing, Mix, Number and Availability of Our Motion Pictures and Other Programming and on Seasonal FactorsOur revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and programs for licensing. For example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period relative to the corresponding period in the prior year due to differences in the number and/or mix of films released and the timing of delivery of programming to television and digital distributors. Our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of marketing expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment products, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods.Our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences’ viewing habits and attendance. Typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer and around holidays. The effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter.The Loss of Affiliation Agreements, Renewal on Less Favorable Terms or Adverse Interpretations Could Cause Our Revenues to Decline in Any Given Period or in Specific MarketsWe are dependent upon our agreements with cable television, direct-to-home satellite television and telecommunications operators, subscription and advertising supported video-on-demand services, and other distributors of our programming and program services. We have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite distributors and several SVOD and other OTT content distributors, but there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us, or at all. While many consumers have a choice of distributors from which to access our content, the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from both advertising and affiliate fees. Further, the loss of favorable packaging and positioning opportunities with any distributor could reduce revenues from subscriber fees. In addition, as these affiliate agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation, and even validity, of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, litigation seeking to circumscribe enforcement of our rights or to seek damages under competition and other laws. Consolidation among Cable, Satellite and Telecommunications Service Providers Has Had, and Could Continue to Have, an Adverse Effect on Our Revenue and ProfitabilityConsolidation among cable and satellite distributors and telecommunications service providers has given the largest operators considerable leverage and market power in their relationships with programmers. We currently have agreements in place with the major U.S. cable and satellite operators and this consolidation has affected, and could continue to affect, our ability to maximize the value of our content through those distributors. In addition, many of the countries and territories in which we distribute our networks also have a small number of dominant distributors. Continued consolidation within the industry could reduce the number of distributors that carry our programming, subject our affiliate revenues to greater volume discounts, and further increase the negotiating leverage of the cable and satellite television system operators, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.24Table of ContentsThe Development of Alternative Offerings for Consumers Has Had, and Could Continue to Have, an Adverse Effect on Our Viewership, Revenue and ProfitabilityIn response to perceived consumer demand, distributors of programming and program services are continuing to develop alternative offerings for consumers. These alternative packages of networks are generally smaller than the traditional cable package, and some allow the consumer to customize its package of networks to a certain extent. To the extent these alternative packages are widely accepted by consumers in lieu of traditional cable packages, we could experience a decline in subscribers to certain of our networks, which could lead to lower affiliate and advertising revenues.Political and Economic Conditions in a Variety of Markets around the World Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Businesses and Harm Our Financial Condition Our businesses operate and have customers, partners and audiences worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. Economic conditions in many different markets around the world therefore affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues in both domestic and international markets derived from advertising sales, theatrical releases, home entertainment distribution, television licensing and sales of consumer products. Economic conditions in each market can also impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks by causing them to reduce their spending on advertising, and can impact our audience’s discretionary spending. In addition, as we have expanded our international operations, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar has increased. Such fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and net asset balances, and there is no assurance that downward trending currencies will rebound or that stable currencies will remain unchanged in any period.In addition, our businesses are exposed to certain political and economic risks inherent in conducting a global business. These include, among others:•changes in the regulatory environment in the markets where we operate, including the imposition of new regulations or changed interpretations of existing regulations, particularly regarding repatriation of profits, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, currency exchange controls, permit requirements, restrictions on foreign ownership or investment, export and market access restrictions, exceptions and limitations on copyright and censorship;  •potential for longer payment cycles; •issues related to the presence of corruption in certain markets and changes in anti-corruption laws and regulations; •increased risk of political instability in some markets as well as conflict and sanctions preventing us from accessing those markets; •wars, acts of terrorism or other hostilities; and•other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties.These political and economic risks could create instability in any of the markets where our businesses derive revenues, which could result in a reduction of revenue or loss of investment that adversely affects our businesses and harms our financial condition.  For example, voters in the UK approved the non-binding “Brexit” referendum in June 2016. In order to effect Brexit, a process of negotiation will determine the future terms of the UK’s relationship with the EU. Depending upon the terms of Brexit, if any, the UK could lose access to the single EU market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the EU on behalf of its members. The effects of the Brexit vote and the perceptions as to the impact of the withdrawal of the UK from the EU may adversely affect business activity, political stability and economic and market conditions in the UK, the Eurozone, the EU and elsewhere and could contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, including volatility in the value of the Euro and the British Pound. In addition, Brexit could lead to additional political, legal and economic instability and uncertainty in the EU, including changes in the regulatory environment, which could impact our ability to use UK law under “country of origin” rules for programming in the EU, potential trade barriers between the UK and the EU and between the UK and other countries, and potential content production quota regulations. Given that a portion of our business is conducted in the EU, including the UK, any of these effects of Brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows.25Table of ContentsChanges in U.S. or Foreign Communications Laws, Laws Affecting Intellectual Property Rights or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business  Our program services and online, mobile and app properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to intellectual property, content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. For example, there are various laws and regulations intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of advertising that may be shown during children’s programming and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors, which affect our Nickelodeon businesses in particular. In addition, the U.S. Congress, the FCC and certain foreign governments currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our media properties. For example, the FCC recently proposed regulations intended to increase competition in the cable set-top box market, which, if approved, could lead to government oversight of certain provisions of programming distribution agreements and disruption to the cable business model. Further, Congress has held hearings to consider significant changes in copyright law. Our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we, or our partners, operate, including quotas, tax regimes, currency restrictions and data protection regimes. Our businesses could be adversely affected by new laws and regulations, the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming, as well as our ability to enforce legal rights and changes in existing laws (or changes in interpretation) by courts and regulators. We could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. We could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. Furthermore, laws in some non-U.S. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. This could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business.We Could be Subject to Material Liabilities as a Result of Changes in Tax Laws, Regulations and Administrative Practices, Interpretations and PoliciesWe are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous international jurisdictions. Our tax rates are impacted by the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices, interpretations and policies in federal, state and local and international territories where our businesses operate, and may be subject to significant change. In addition, our tax returns are routinely audited and litigation or settlements may occur.  Such changes, audit settlements or litigation may result in the recognition of an additional charge to our income tax provision in the period and may adversely affect our effective income tax rate or cash payments and may therefore affect our operating results, cash flows and financial condition.We Face Continually Evolving Cybersecurity and Similar Risks, Which Could Result in the Disclosure of Confidential Information, Disruption of Our Programming and Motion Picture Services, Damage to Our Brands and Reputation, Legal Exposure and Financial Losses  Our online, mobile and app offerings, as well as our internal and certain partners’ systems, involve the storage and transmission of our and our users’ proprietary and personal information (including third-party and employee data), and we and our partners rely on various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures. Although we monitor our security measures regularly, they may be breached due to employee or partner error, computer malware or ransomware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, natural or other disasters, terrorist attacks, or otherwise. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose sensitive or confidential information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ data. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate preventative measures or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis. Moreover, the development and maintenance of these preventative and detective measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties when it is necessary to pursue business objectives. While we obtain assurances that these third parties will protect this information and, where appropriate, monitor the protections employed by these third parties, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held by third parties may be compromised.  Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in a loss of our, our partners’ or our users’ proprietary information, a disruption of our services or a reduction of the revenues we are able to generate from such services, damage to our brands and reputation, a loss of confidence in the security of our offerings and services, and significant legal and 26Table of Contentsfinancial exposure related to damages cause by these risks, the cost of remediation, and liability to third parties for harm caused by unauthorized access to their data, as well as potential liability related to regulatory, consumer or other actions, such as actions related to data collection and other data privacy concerns, each of which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business and operating results.We Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union ActivityWe and our business partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Some of our collective bargaining agreements are industry-wide agreements, and we may lack practical control over the negotiations and terms of the agreements. In addition, any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs.The Loss of Key Talent Could Disrupt Our Business and Adversely Affect Our RevenuesOur business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of not only our corporate and divisional executive teams, but also the various creative talent and entertainment personalities with whom we work. For example, we employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, writers, actors and other talent. These individuals are important to achieving the success of our programs, motion pictures and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining this and new talent will be reasonable. If we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal or we fail to attract new talent, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected.The Failure, Destruction and/or Breach of Satellites and Facilities that We Depend Upon to Distribute Our Programming Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of OperationsWe use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Notwithstanding certain back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local events, such as extreme weather, that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. There can be no assurance that such failure or breach would not have an adverse effect on our financial condition.Our Obligations Related to Guarantees, Litigation and Joint Ventures Could Adversely Impact Our Financial ConditionWe have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if Famous Players Inc. defaults on certain theater leases. We have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. We are also involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. It is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. Therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition.Through National Amusements’ Voting Control of Viacom and CBS, Certain Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest, and National Amusements is in a Position to Control Actions that Require, or May be Accomplished by, Stockholder Approval  National Amusements, directly and indirectly, is the controlling stockholder of both Viacom and CBS. National Amusements owns shares in Viacom representing approximately 79.8% of the voting interest in Viacom and approximately 10% of Viacom’s combined common stock. National Amusements is controlled by Sumner M. Redstone, who is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of National Amusements, through the Sumner M. Redstone National Amusements Trust (the “SMR Trust”), which owns shares in National Amusements representing 80% of the voting interest of National Amusements. Shares of National Amusements held by the SMR Trust are voted solely by Mr. Redstone until such time as his incapacity or death. Upon Mr. Redstone’s incapacity or death, (1) Shari Redstone, who is the non-executive Vice Chair of Viacom and the President and a director of National Amusements, will also become a trustee of the SMR Trust and (2) the shares of National Amusements held by the SMR Trust will be voted by the trustees of the SMR Trust. The trustees of the SMR Trust include Mr. Redstone and 27Table of ContentsDavid Andelman, a member of the boards of directors of National Amusements and CBS. Mr. Redstone serves as our Chairman Emeritus and as the Chairman Emeritus of CBS. Ms. Redstone, who is Mr. Redstone’s daughter, also serves as the non-executive Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of CBS. The National Amusements ownership structure and the common directors among National Amusements, Viacom and CBS could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and CBS. Potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and CBS enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with CBS. Our certificate of incorporation and the CBS certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to CBS, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company.In addition, National Amusement’s voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require, or may be accomplished by, stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and transactions involving a change in control. For so long as National Amusements retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than National Amusements will be unable to affect the outcome of any corporate actions. The interests of National Amusements may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests.We, National Amusements and CBS, and our Respective Businesses, Are Attributable to Each Other for Certain Regulatory Purposes, Which May Limit Business Opportunities or Impose Additional CostsSo long as we, National Amusements and CBS are under common control, each company’s businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of U.S. and non-U.S. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the FCC, certain rules under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the United States, among others. The businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for FCC and other purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from CBS, or may impose additional costs on us.Item 1B