ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS


An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the following
risks, together with the information included in or incorporated by reference in this report,
before deciding whether an investment in our common stock is suitable for you. If any of these
risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be
materially and adversely affected. In such an event, the trading prices of our common stock could
decline and you might lose all or part of your investment.






Page 12




Table of Contents








Our incurrence of additional debt to finance a portion of the Florida Rock merger significantly
increased our interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements — We incurred
considerable short-term and long-term debt to finance the Florida Rock merger. Incurrence of this
debt significantly increased our leverage and caused downgrades in our credit rating. There may be
circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this debt could adversely
affect our cash flows.


There are various financial and restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. If we fail to comply
with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could
become due and payable prior to its stated maturity. A default under our debt instruments may also
significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing.


Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness
will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing
economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control.


Construction, both commercial and residential, is dependent upon the overall U.S. economy which
remains weak and could weaken further — Commercial and residential construction levels generally
move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise and when the
economy is weak, construction levels fall. The overall U.S. economy has been hurt by the changes in
the financial services sector, including failures of several large financial institutions,
significant merger and acquisition activity within that industry and the resulting constraints on
credit availability. The commercial construction market declined in 2008 and 2009, due mostly to
the recession and disruptions in credit availability. Also, continued weakness in the residential
construction market negatively affected the commercial construction market. The residential
construction market further softened in 2009 as a result of the housing market downturn. The
overall weakness in the economy and the uncertainty in the credit markets could cause commercial
and residential construction to remain at low levels or weaken further.


The collapse of the subprime mortgage market and, in turn, the housing market could continue to
negatively affect demand for our products — In most of our markets, particularly Florida and
California, sales volumes have been negatively impacted by the collapse of the subprime mortgage
market and a significant decline in residential construction. Our sales volumes and earnings could
continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until the slowdown
in residential construction improves.


A decline in public sector construction and reductions in governmental funding could adversely
affect our operations and results — In 2009, 50% of our sales volume of construction aggregates was
made to contractors on publicly funded construction projects. If, as a result of a loss of federal
funding, a protracted delay by Congress to extend or replace the multi-year federal transportation
bill that expired on September 30, 2009, or a significant reduction in state or federal budgets,
spending on publicly funded construction were to be reduced significantly, our earnings and cash
flows could be negatively affected. Further, any delays in expenditure of stimulus funds designated
for highways and other public work projects pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
of 2009 could negatively impact our earnings for 2010.


Difficult and volatile conditions in the credit markets could affect our financial position,
results of operations and cash flows — The current credit environment has negatively affected the
U.S. economy and demand for our products. Commercial and residential construction could continue to
decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic
slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations of capital projects.


A recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on our
accounts receivable from our customers. We have experienced payment delays from some of our
customers during this economic downturn.


The credit environment could limit our ability to issue commercial paper. Additional financing or
refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms.
Interest rates on new issuances of long-term public debt in the market may increase due to higher
credit and risk premiums. There is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at
economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business.




Page 13




Table of Contents








We may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they
arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. We are also exposed to risks from tightening credit
markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding short-term debt and the interest cost on
our commercial paper, to the extent it is available to us. While it is our objective to maintain
our credit ratings at investment grade levels, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at
those levels. While we believe that we will continue to have adequate credit available to meet our
needs, there can be no assurance of such credit availability.


Weather can materially affect our quarterly results — Almost all of our products are used in
the public or private construction industry, and our production and distribution facilities are
located outdoors. Inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our
products and affects our customers’ short-term demand since their work also can be hampered by
weather. Therefore, our results can be negatively affected by inclement weather.


Within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry — The construction aggregates
industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in a number of our
markets. However, in most markets, we also compete against large private and public companies, some
of which are more vertically integrated than we are. This results in intense competition in a
number of markets in which we operate. Significant competition could lead to lower prices, lower
sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows.
In certain markets, vertically integrated competitors have acquired some asphalt mix and
ready-mixed concrete customers and this trend may continue to accelerate.


Our long-term success is dependent upon securing and permitting aggregates reserves in
strategically located areas — Construction aggregates are bulky and heavy and, therefore, difficult
to transport efficiently. Because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly
surpass the production costs. Therefore, except for geographic regions that do not possess
commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for
our products tend to be very localized around our quarry sites. New quarry sites often take a
number of years to develop, so our strategic planning and new site development must stay ahead of
actual growth. Additionally, in a number of urban and suburban areas in which we operate, it is
increasingly difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to community resistance.
Therefore, our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future
areas of high growth in order to locate optimal facility sites and on our ability to secure
operating and environmental permits to operate at those sites.


Our future growth is dependent in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry and
successfully integrating them with our existing operations — The expansion of our business is
dependent in part on the acquisition of existing businesses that own or control aggregates
reserves. Credit and financing availability could make it more difficult to capitalize on potential
acquisitions. Additionally, with regard to the acquisitions we are able to complete, our future
results will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses with
our existing operations.


Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, environmental
and other areas of the law impact our business — Our operations are affected by numerous federal,
state and local laws and regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental matters. Despite
our compliance efforts, there is the inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business,
especially from an environmental standpoint. These potential liabilities could have an adverse
impact on our operations and profitability. Our operations require numerous governmental approvals
and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to
comply with zoning and environmental laws and regulations. Stricter laws and regulations, or more
stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, reduce
operating hours, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our
opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities.






Page 14




Table of Contents







Our industry is capital intensive, resulting in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. Therefore,
our earnings are highly sensitive to changes in volume — Due to the high levels of fixed capital
required for the extraction and production of construction aggregates, profitability as measured in
absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales (margins) can be greatly impacted due to changes
in volume.


Our products are transported by truck, rail, barge or ship, primarily by third-party providers.
Significant delays or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially
affect our operations and earnings — Our products are distributed either by truck to local markets
or by rail, barge or oceangoing vessel to remote markets. Costs of transporting our products could
be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including rail service interruptions or
rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs and capacity constraints. Additionally, inclement
weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather events, can negatively impact our
distribution network.


Our future success depends greatly upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly
in sales and operations — A significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to
attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified personnel,
particularly in the areas of sales and operations, is affected by changing demographics of the
available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions,
the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer
competitive compensation and benefit packages.


We use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based
resources that are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuation — In
our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel
fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources. The availability and pricing of these
resources are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. Our suppliers contract
separately for the purchase of such resources and our sources of supply could be interrupted should
our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors
interrupting their availability. Variability in the supply and prices of these resources could
materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our
profitability.


The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have risen in recent years.
Continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings — The costs of providing
pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several
years. We have instituted measures to help slow the rate of increase. However, if these costs
continue to rise, this could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations, or cash flows.


We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation and
other contingencies with certainty — We are involved in several class action and complex litigation
proceedings, some arising from our previous ownership and operation of our Chemicals business.
Although we divested our Chemicals business in June 2005, we retained certain liabilities related
to the business. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves
when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our assessment
of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a
particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment
and estimates of a loss contingency, and could result in an adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations, or cash flows. For a description of our current significant legal
proceedings see Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies” in Item 8 “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.”


Climate change and climate change legislation or regulations may adversely impact our business — A
number of governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory
change in response to the potential impacts of climate change including pending U.S. legislation
that, if enacted, would limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions through a “cap and trade” system
of allowances and credits, among other provisions. In addition, the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) has for the first time required large emitters of greenhouse gases to collect and report data
with respect to their greenhouse gas emissions and has proposed a permitting process for large
emitters. We have determined that our Newberry cement plant would likely be subject to this
permitting under the regulations as currently proposed. These regulatory mechanisms may be either
voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly through customers or
our supply chain. Any such “cap-and-trade”






Page 15




Table of Contents








system or other limitations imposed on the emission of
“greenhouse gases” could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, results of
operation or cash flows.


The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and will
be particular to the specific geographic location of our facilities and operations. These may
include changes in rainfall patterns, shortages of water or other natural resources, changing sea
levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. The impact of
these laws and regulations could also potentially increase our energy costs. These effects may
adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations.


We use estimates in accounting for a number of significant items. Changes in our estimates could
affect our future financial results — As discussed more fully in “Critical Accounting Policies”
under Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations,” we use significant judgment in accounting for goodwill and goodwill impairment;
impairment of long-lived assets excluding goodwill; reclamation costs; pension and other
postretirement benefits; environmental compliance; claims and litigation including self-insurance;
and income taxes. Although we believe we have sufficient experience and reasonable procedures to
enable us to make appropriate assumptions and formulate reasonable estimates, these assumptions and
estimates could change significantly in the future and could result in a material adverse effect on
our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.






ITEM 1B