Item 1A “Risk Factors,”
    Item 3 “Legal Proceedings,” Item 7
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 12
    “Other Commitments and Contingencies” to the
    consolidated financial statements in Item 8 “Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data ,” all as set forth in
    this report; and




 



 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         1
    






Table of Contents









    
    



        § 

        other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to
    time in our filings made with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.







 


    All forward-looking statements are made as of the date of filing
    or publication. We undertake no obligation to publicly update
    any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
    information, future events or otherwise. Investors are cautioned
    not to rely unduly on such forward-looking statements when
    evaluating the information presented in our filings, and are
    advised to consult any of our future disclosures in filings made
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission and our press
    releases with regard to our business and consolidated financial
    position, results of operations and cash flows.






 

 



    ITEM 1


 


    BUSINESS


 



    SUMMARY
    


 


    Vulcan Materials Company is a New Jersey corporation and the
    nation’s largest producer of construction aggregates:
    primarily crushed stone, sand, and gravel. We have 319
    aggregates facilities. We also are a major producer of asphalt
    mix and ready-mixed concrete as well as a leading producer of
    cement in Florida.


 



    STRATEGY
    FOR EXISTING AND NEW MARKETS


 




    
    



        § 
    
    Our reserves are strategically located throughout the United
    States in high growth areas that will require large amounts of
    aggregates to meet construction demand. Vulcan-served states are
    estimated to have 78% of the total growth in the
    U.S. population and 75% of the growth in
    U.S. household formations to 2020. Our top ten revenue
    producing states in 2010 were California, Virginia, Florida, Texas,
    Tennessee, Georgia, Illinois, North Carolina, Alabama and South
    Carolina.





 



    U.S. DEMOGRAPHIC
    GROWTH 2010 – 2020 BY STATE


 




      
       
      
       
         
         
       
      
       
         
         
       
      
       
         
         





 


 


    Population


 


    Households


 


    Employment




 


 


 


 


    Share of


 


 


 


    Share of


 


 


 


    Share of




      Rank


 


    State


 


    Growth


 


    State


 


    Growth


 


    State


 


    Growth






    1



 


    Texas


 


 


    15%


 


    Florida


 


 


    13%


 


    Texas


 


 


    14%





    2



 


    California


 


 


    14%


 


    Texas


 


 


    13%


 


    Florida


 


 


    11%





    3



 


    Florida


 


 


    13%


 


    California


 


 


    12%


 


    California


 


 


    9%





    4



 


    Georgia


 


 


    7%


 


    Arizona


 


 


    6%


 


    New York


 


 


    5%





    5



 


    Arizona


 


 


    6%


 


    Georgia


 


 


    6%


 


    Georgia


 


 


    5%





    6



 


    North Carolina


 


 


    6%


 


    North Carolina


 


 


    5%


 


    North Carolina


 


 


    4%





    7



 


    Nevada


 


 


    3%


 


    Washington


 


 


    3%


 


    Arizona


 


 


    4%





    8



 


    Virginia


 


 


    3%


 


    Virginia


 


 


    3%


 


    Virginia


 


 


    3%





    9



 


    Washington


 


 


    2%


 


    Colorado


 


 


    2%


 


    Pennsylvania


 


 


    3%





    10



 


    Colorado


 


 


    2%


 


    Nevada


 


 


    2%


 


    Washington


 


 


    3%




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Top 10 Subtotal



 


 


    71%


 


 


 


 


    65%


 


 


 


 


    61%




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Vulcan-served States



 


 


    78%


 


 


 


 


    75%


 


 


 


 


    69%




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 









    Note: Vulcan-served states shown in bolded, blue text.



    Source: Moody’s Analytics


 




    
    



        § 

        We have pursued a strategy of increasing our presence in
    metropolitan areas that are expected to grow most rapidly.




 



 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         2
    






Table of Contents








    
    


 



        § 

        We typically operate in locations close to our local markets
    because the cost of trucking materials long distances is
    prohibitive. Approximately 80% of our total aggregates shipments
    are delivered exclusively by truck, and another 13% are
    delivered by truck after reaching a sales yard by rail or water.





 



    MAJOR
    ACQUISITIONS


 




      
       
      
       
      
       
      





    DATE


 


    ACQUISITION


 


    MATERIALS


 


    STATES






    1999



 


    CalMat Co.


 


    Aggregates
    Asphalt Mix 
    Ready-mixed concrete


 


    Arizona
    California
    New Mexico




 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    2000



 


    Tarmac
    Companies


 


    Aggregates


 


    Maryland 
    North Carolina 
    Pennsylvania 
    South Carolina 
    Virginia




 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    2007



 


    Florida Rock
    Industries, Inc.


 


    Aggregates
    Ready-mixed concrete
    Cement


 


    Alabama
    Florida 
    Georgia 
    Maryland 
    Virginia 
    Washington, DC




 


 


 


 


 


 


 








 





    
    


 


        § 

        Since becoming a public company in 1956, Vulcan has principally
    grown by mergers and acquisitions. In the last 20 years we
    have acquired over 276 aggregates operations, including many
    small bolt-on operations and several large acquisitions.



 


    COMPETITORS


 


    We operate in an industry that is very fragmented with a large
    number of small, privately-held companies. We estimate that the
    ten largest aggregates producers account for approximately 30%
    to 35% of the total U.S. aggregates production. Despite
    being the industry leader, Vulcan’s total U.S. market
    share is less than 10%. Other publicly traded companies among
    the ten largest U.S. aggregates producers include the
    following:


 




    
    



        § 

        Cemex S.A.B. de C.V.




 



        § 

        CRH, plc




 



        § 

        Heidelberg Cement AG




 



        § 

        Holcim, Ltd.




 



        § 

        Lafarge SA




 



        § 

        Martin Marietta Materials, Inc.




 



        § 

        MDU Resources Group, Inc.





 


    Because the U.S. aggregates industry is highly fragmented,
    with approximately 5,000 companies managing more than 9,000
    operations, many opportunities for consolidation exist.
    Therefore, companies in the industry tend to grow by entering
    new markets or enhancing their market positions by acquiring
    existing facilities.



 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         3
    






Table of Contents





 



    BUSINESS
    STRATEGY


 


    Vulcan provides the basic materials for the infrastructure
    needed to expand the U.S. economy. Our strategy is based on
    our strength in aggregates. Aggregates are used in all types of
    construction and in the production of asphalt mix and ready-mixed
concrete. Our materials are used to build the roads,
    tunnels, bridges, railroads and airports that connect us, and to
    build the hospitals, churches, shopping centers, and factories
    that are essential to our lives and the economy. The following
    graphs illustrate the relationship of our four operating segments to
    sales.


 





    AGGREGATES-LED VALUE
    CREATION — 2010 NET SALES
    


 


    
    


 


    * Represents sales to external customers of our aggregates
    and our downstream products that use our aggregates.


 


    Our business strategies include: 1) aggregates focus,
    2) coast-to-coast
    footprint, 3) profitable growth, and 4) effective land
    management.


 



    1. AGGREGATES
    FOCUS


 


    Aggregates are used in virtually all types of public and private
    construction projects and practically no substitutes for quality
    aggregates exist. Our focus on aggregates allows us to


 




    
    



        § 

        BUILD AND HOLD SUBSTANTIAL RESERVES: The location of our
    reserves is critical to our long-term success because of
    barriers to entry created in some markets by zoning and
    permitting regulations and high transportation costs. Our
    reserves are strategically located throughout the United States
    in high-growth areas that will require large amounts of
    aggregates to meet future construction demand. Aggregates
    operations have flexible production capabilities and require no
    raw material other than our owned or leased aggregates reserves.
    Our downstream businesses (asphalt mix and concrete)
    predominantly use Vulcan-produced aggregates.




 



        § 

        TAKE ADVANTAGE OF BEING THE LARGEST PRODUCER: Each
    aggregates operation is unique because of its location within a
    local market with particular geological characteristics. Every
    operation, however, uses a similar group of assets to produce
    saleable aggregates and provide customer service. Vulcan is the
    largest aggregates company in the U.S., whether measured by
    production or by revenues. Our 319 aggregates facilities provide
    opportunities to standardize and procure equipment (fixed and
    mobile), parts, supplies and services in the most efficient and
    cost-effective manner possible both regionally and nationally.
    Additionally, we are able to share best practices across the
    organization and leverage our size for administrative support,
    customer service, accounts receivable and accounts payable,
    technical support and engineering.




 



        § 

        GENERATE STRONG CASH EARNINGS PER TON, EVEN IN A
    RECESSION: Our knowledgeable and experienced workforce and
    our flexible production capabilities have allowed us to manage
    costs aggressively during the current recession. As a result,
    our cash earnings for each ton of aggregates sold in 2010 was
    26% higher than at the peak of demand in 2005.





 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         4
    






Table of Contents






    2.
    COAST-TO-COAST
    FOOTPRINT


 


    Demand for construction aggregates positively correlates with
    changes in population growth, household formation and
    employment. We have pursued a strategy to increase our presence
    in metropolitan areas that are expected to grow the most rapidly.


 


    


 


    Source: Moody’s Analytics


 


    Our top ten revenue-producing states are predicted to have 66%
    of the total growth in the U.S. population between now and
    2020. Vulcan-served states are predicted to have 78% of the
    total growth in the U.S. population between now and 2020.
    Therefore, we have located reserves in those markets expected to
    have the greatest growth in population. Additionally, many of
    these reserves are located in areas where zoning and permitting
    laws have made opening new quarries increasingly difficult. Our
    diversified geographic locations help insulate Vulcan from
    variations in regional weather and economies.


 



    3. PROFITABLE
    GROWTH


 


    Our growth is a result of acquisitions, cost management and
    investment activities.


 




    
    



        § 
    
    STRATEGIC ACQUISITIONS: Since becoming a public company
    in 1956, Vulcan has principally grown by mergers and
    acquisitions. For example, in 1999 we acquired CalMat Co.,
    thereby expanding our aggregates operations into California,
    Arizona, and New Mexico and making us one of the nation’s
    leading producers of asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete.





 


    In 2007, we acquired Florida Rock Industries, Inc., the largest
    acquisition in our history. This acquisition


 




    
    
    



     
        §    

    
    expanded our aggregates business in Florida and other
    southeastern and mid-Atlantic states




 



     
        §    

    
    added an extensive ready-mixed concrete business in Florida,
    Maryland, Virginia and Washington D.C.




 



     
        §    

    
    added cement manufacturing and distribution facilities in Florida





 


    In addition to these large acquisitions, we have completed many
    smaller acquisitions that have contributed significantly to our
    growth.


 




    
    



        § 

        TIGHTLY MANAGED COSTS: In a business where our aggregates
    sell, on average, for $10.13 per ton, we are accustomed to
    rigorous cost management throughout economic cycles. Small
    savings per ton add up to significant cost reductions. We are
    able to reduce or expand production and adjust employment levels
    to meet changing market demands without jeopardizing our ability
    to take advantage of future increased demand.




 



        § 

        REINVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES WITH HIGH RETURNS: In the next
    decade, Moody’s Analytics projects that 78% of the
    U.S. population growth will occur in Vulcan-served states.
    The close proximity of our production facilities and our
    aggregates reserves to this projected population growth creates
    many opportunities to invest capital in high-return projects — projects
    that will add reserves, increase production capacity and improve
    costs.






 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         5
    






Table of Contents





 



    4. EFFECTIVE LAND
    MANAGEMENT


 


    At Vulcan we believe that effective land management is both a
    business strategy and a social responsibility and that it
    contributes to our success. Good stewardship requires the
    careful use of existing resources as well as long-term planning
    because mining, ultimately, is an interim use of the land.
    Therefore, we strive to achieve a balance between the value we
    create through our mining activities and the value we create
    through effective post-mining land management. We continue to
    expand our thinking and focus our actions on wise decisions
    regarding the life cycle management of the land we currently
    hold and will hold in the future.


 



    PRODUCT
    LINES


 


    We have four reporting segments organized around our principal
    product lines


 




    
    



        § 

        aggregates




 



        § 

        concrete




 



        § 

        asphalt mix




 



        § 

        cement





 



    1. AGGREGATES
    


 


    
    


 


    A number of factors affect the U.S. aggregates industry and
    our business including markets, reserves and demand cycles.


 




    
    



        § 

        LOCAL MARKETS: Aggregates have a high
    weight-to-value
    ratio and, in most cases, must be produced near where they are
    used; if not, transportation can cost more than the materials.
    Exceptions to this typical market structure include areas along
    the U.S. Gulf Coast and the Eastern Seaboard where there
    are limited supplies of locally available high quality
    aggregates. We serve these markets from inland
    quarries — shipping by barge and rail — and
    from our quarry on Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula. We transport
    aggregates from Mexico to the U.S. principally on our three
    Panamax-class, self-unloading ships.




 



        § 

        DIVERSE MARKETS: Large quantities of aggregates are used
    in virtually all types of public- and private-sector
    construction projects such as highways, airports, water and
    sewer systems, industrial manufacturing facilities, residential
    and nonresidential buildings. Aggregates also are used widely as
    railroad track ballast.




 



        § 

        LOCATION AND QUALITY OF RESERVES: Vulcan currently has
    14.7 billion tons of permitted and proven or probable
    aggregates reserves. The bulk of these reserves are located in
    areas where we expect greater than average rates of growth in
    population, jobs and households, which require new
    infrastructure, housing, offices, schools and other development.
    Such growth requires aggregates for construction. Zoning and
    permitting regulations in some markets have made it increasingly
    difficult for the aggregates industry to expand existing
    quarries or to develop new quarries. These restrictions could
    curtail expansion in certain areas, but they also could increase
    the value of our reserves at existing locations.




 






 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         6
    






Table of Contents







    
    



        § 

        DEMAND CYCLES: Long-term growth in demand for aggregates
    is largely driven by growth in population, jobs and households.
    While short- and medium-term demand for aggregates fluctuates
    with economic cycles, declines have historically been followed
    by strong recoveries, with each peak establishing a new
    historical high. In comparison to all other recent demand cycles, the current
    downturn has been unusually steep and long, making it difficult
    to predict the timing or strength of future recovery.





 


    Highway construction is the most aggregates-intensive form of
    construction and residential construction is the least intensive
    (see table below). A dollar spent for highway construction is
    estimated to consume seven times the quantity of aggregates
    consumed by a dollar spent for residential construction. Other
    non-highway infrastructure markets like airports, sewer and
    waste disposal, or water supply plants and utilities also
    require large quantities of aggregates in their foundations and
    structures. These types of infrastructure-related construction
    can be four times more aggregates-intensive than residential
    construction. Generally, nonresidential buildings require two to
    three times as much aggregates per dollar of spending as a new
    home with most of the aggregates used in the foundations,
    building structure and parking lots.


 



    U.S.
    AGGREGATES DEMAND BY END-MARKET


 


    
    


 


    Source: internal estimates


 


    In addition, the following factors influence the aggregates
    market:


 




    
    



        § 

        HIGHLY FRAGMENTED INDUSTRY: The U.S. aggregates
    industry is composed of approximately 5,000 companies that
    manage more than 9,000 operations. This fragmented structure
    provides many opportunities for consolidation. Companies in the
    industry commonly enter new markets or expand positions in
    existing markets through the acquisition of existing facilities.




 



        § 

        RELATIVELY STABLE DEMAND FROM THE PUBLIC SECTOR: Publicly
    funded construction activity  has historically been more stable
    than privately funded construction. Public construction also has
    been less cyclical than private construction and requires more
    aggregates per dollar of construction spending. Private
    construction (primarily residential and nonresidential
    buildings) is typically more affected by general economic cycles
    than public construction. Publicly funded projects (particularly
    highways, roads and bridges) tend to receive more consistent
    levels of funding throughout economic cycles.




 



        § 

        LIMITED PRODUCT SUBSTITUTION: With few exceptions, there
    are no practical substitutes for quality aggregates. In urban
    locations, recycled concrete has limited applications as a
    lower-cost alternative to virgin aggregates. However, many types
    of construction projects cannot be served by recycled concrete
    but require the use of virgin aggregates to meet specifications
    and performance-based criteria for durability, strength and
    other qualities.





 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         7
    






Table of Contents




 




    
    





        § 

        WIDELY USED IN DOWNSTREAM PRODUCTS: In the production
    process, aggregates are processed for specific applications or
    uses. Two products that use aggregates are asphalt mix and
    ready-mixed concrete. By weight, aggregates comprise
    approximately 95% of asphalt mix and 78% of ready-mixed concrete.


 



        § 

        FLEXIBLE PRODUCTION CAPABILITIES: The production of
    aggregates is a mechanical process in which stone is crushed
    and, through a series of screens, separated into various sizes
    depending on how it will be used. Aggregates plants do not
    require high
    start-up
    costs and typically have lower fixed costs than continuous
    process manufacturing operations. Production capacity can be
    flexible by adjusting operating hours to meet changing market
    demand. For example, we reduced production during 2009 and 2010
    in response to the economic downturn but retain the capacity to
    quickly increase production as economic conditions and demand
    improve.




 



        § 

        NO RAW MATERIAL INPUTS: Unlike typical industrial
    manufacturing industries, the aggregates industry does not
    require the input of raw material beyond owned or leased
    aggregates reserves. Stone, sand and gravel are naturally
    occurring resources. However, production does require the use of
    explosives, hydrocarbon fuels and electric power.





 



    OUR
    MARKETS


 


    We focus on the U.S. markets with the greatest
    expected population growth and where construction is expected to
    expand. Because transportation is a significant part of the
    delivered cost of aggregates, our facilities are typically
    located in the markets they serve or with access to economical
    transportation to their markets. We serve both the public and
    the private sectors.


 



    PUBLIC
    SECTOR


 


    Public sector construction includes spending by federal, state,
    and local governments for highways, bridges and airports as well
    as other infrastructure construction for sewer and waste
    disposal systems, water supply systems, dams, reservoirs and
    other public construction projects. Construction for power
    plants and other utilities is funded from both public and
    private sources. In 2010, publicly funded construction accounted
    for 55% of our total aggregates shipments.


 


    PUBLIC SECTOR FUNDING: Generally, public sector
    construction spending is more stable than private sector
    construction because public sector spending is less sensitive to
    interest rates and has historically been supported by multi-year
    legislation and programs. For example, the federal
    transportation bill is a principal source of federal funding for
    public infrastructure and transportation projects. For over two
    decades, projects have been funded through a series of
    multi-year bills. The long-term aspect of these bills is
    critical because it provides state departments of transportation
    with the ability to plan and execute long-term and complex
    highway projects. Federal highway spending is governed by
    multi-year authorization bills and annual budget appropriations
    using funds largely from the Federal Highway Trust Fund.
    This trust receives funding from taxes on gasoline and other
    levies. The level of state spending on infrastructure varies
    across the United States and depends on individual state needs
    and economies. In 2010, approximately 30% of our aggregates
    sales by volume were used in highway construction projects.


 


    CHANGES IN MULTI-YEAR FUNDING: The most recent federal
    transportation bill, known as SAFETEA-LU, expired on
    September 30, 2009. Congress has yet to pass a replacement
    bill. As a result, funds for highway construction are being
    provided by a series of authorized extensions with
    appropriations at fiscal year 2010 levels. This uncertainty in
    funding may lead some states to defer large multi-year projects
    until such time as there is greater certainty of funding.


 


    NEED FOR PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A significant need exists
    for additional and ongoing investments in the nation’s
    infrastructure. In 2009, a report by the American Society of
    Civil Engineers (ASCE) gave our nation’s infrastructure an
    overall grade of “D” and estimated that an investment
    of $2.2 trillion over a five-year period is needed for
    improvements. While the needs are clear, the source of funding
    for infrastructure improvements is not. In its report, the ASCE
    suggests that all levels of government, owners and users need to
    renew their commitment to infrastructure investments in all
    categories and that all available financing options should be
    explored and debated.




 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         8
    






Table of Contents





    FEDERAL STIMULUS IMPACT: The American Recovery and
    Reinvestment Act of 2009 (the Stimulus or ARRA) was signed into law on
    February 17, 2009 to create jobs and restore economic
    growth through, among other things, the modernization of
    America’s infrastructure and improving its energy
    resources. Included in the $787 billion of economic
    stimulus funding is $50 to $60 billion of heavy
    construction, including $27.5 billion for highways and
    bridges. This federal funding for highways and bridges, unlike
    typical federal funding programs for infrastructure, does not require states to provide matching funds. The nature of
    the projects that are being funded by ARRA generally will
    require considerable quantities of aggregates.


 


Publicly-funded construction activity increased in 2010 due mostly to
the Stimulus. According to the Federal Highway Administration,
approximately $7.1 billion or 43% of the total Stimulus funds
apportioned for highways and bridges in Vulcan-served states remains
to be spent. The pace of obligating, bidding, awarding and starting
stimulus-related highway construction projects has varied widely
across states. These state-by-state differences in awarding projects
and spending patterns are due, in part, to the types of planned
projects and to the proportion sub-allocated to metropolitan planning
organizations where project planning and execution can be more
complicated and time consuming.


 


    Despite the failure of Congress to pass a fully-funded extension
    of SAFETEA-LU (the previous highway authorization that expired
    on September 30, 2009), total contract awards for federal,
    state and local highways in 2010 increased 2% from 2009.
    Moreover, contract awards for public highway projects in
    Vulcan-served states increased 5% from the prior year versus a
    2% decline in other states. We are encouraged by the increased
    award activity and are optimistic that stimulus-related highway
    projects in Vulcan-served states will increase demand for our
    products in 2011.


 



    PRIVATE
    SECTOR


 


    The private sector market includes both nonresidential buildings
    and residential construction and is more cyclical than public
    construction. In 2010, privately-funded construction accounted
    for 45% of our total aggregates shipments.


 


    NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION: Private nonresidential
    construction includes a wide array of types of projects. Such
    projects generally are more aggregates intensive than
    residential construction, but less aggregates intensive than
    public construction. Overall demand in private nonresidential
    construction is generally driven by job growth, vacancy rates,
    private infrastructure needs and demographic trends. The growth
    of the private workforce creates demand for offices, hotels and
    restaurants. Likewise, population growth generates demand for
    stores, shopping centers, warehouses and parking decks as well
    as hospitals, churches and entertainment facilities. Large
    industrial projects, such as a new manufacturing facility, can
    increase the need for other manufacturing plants to supply parts
    and assemblies. Construction activity in this end market is
    influenced by a firm’s ability to finance a project and the
    cost of such financing.


 


    Consistent with past cycles of private sector construction,
    private nonresidential construction remained strong after
    residential construction peaked in 2006. However, in late 2007,
    contract awards for nonresidential buildings peaked. In 2008,
    contract awards in the U.S. declined 24% from the prior
    year and in 2009 fell sharply, declining 56% from 2008 levels.
    Contract awards for stores and office buildings were the weakest
    categories of nonresidential construction in 2009, declining
    more than 60% from the prior year. Employment growth, more
    attractive lending standards and general recovery in the economy
    will help drive growth in construction activity in this end
    market.


 


    RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION: The majority of residential
    construction is for single-family houses with the remainder
    consisting of multi-family construction (i.e., two family
    houses, apartment buildings and condominiums). Public housing
    comprises only a small portion of the housing demand. Household
    formations in Vulcan’s markets have grown faster than the
    U.S. as a whole in the last 10 years. During that
    time, household growth was 12% in our markets compared to 6% in
    the remainder of the U.S. Construction activity in this end
    market is influenced by the cost and availability of mortgage
    financing. Demand for our products generally occurs early in the
    infrastructure phase of residential construction and later as
    part of driveways or parking lots.



 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         9
    






Table of Contents



 


    U.S. housing starts, as measured by McGraw-Hill data,
    peaked in early 2006 at over 2 million units annually. By
    the end of 2009, total housing starts had declined to less than
    600,000 units, well below prior historical lows of
    approximately 1 million units annually. However, in the
    summer of 2009, single-family housing starts began to stabilize
    as evidenced by the graph below. By the end of 2010, single-family
    starts exhibited some modest growth, breaking  almost four
    consecutive years of decline.

 




    PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION
    ACTIVITY COMPARISON
    



    (Trailing Twelve Months Ending
    Dec. 2004 =100)
    


 


    
    


 


    Source: McGraw-Hill


 


    In 2010, total U.S. housing starts increased 4% from the
    prior year. While these results don’t necessarily indicate
    a sustained recovery in residential construction, the modest
    improvement in construction activity is encouraging. Lower home
    prices, attractive mortgage interest rates and fewer existing
    homes for sale provide some optimism for housing construction in
    2011 and beyond.


 



    ADDITIONAL
    AGGREGATES PRODUCTS AND MARKETS


 


    We sell ballast to railroads for construction and maintenance of
    railroad track. We also sell riprap and jetty stone for erosion
    control along waterways. In addition, stone can be used as
    a feedstock for cement and lime plants and for making a variety
    of adhesives, fillers and extenders. Coal-burning power plants
    use limestone in scrubbers to reduce harmful emissions.
    Limestone that is crushed to a fine powder can be sold as
    agricultural lime.


 



    OUR
    COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE


 


    We are the largest producer of construction aggregates in the
    United States. The aggregates market is highly fragmented with
    many small, independent producers. Therefore, depending on the
    market, we may compete with large national or regional firms as
    well as relatively small local producers. Since construction
    aggregates are expensive to transport relative to their value,
    markets generally are local in nature. Thus, the cost to deliver
    product to the location where it is used is an important
    competitive factor.



 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         10
    






Table of Contents





    We serve metropolitan areas that demographers expect will
    experience the largest absolute growth in population in the
    future. A market often consists of a single metropolitan area or
    one or more counties where transportation from the producing
    location to the customer is by truck only. Approximately 80% of
    our total aggregates shipments are delivered exclusively by
    truck, and another 13% are delivered by truck after reaching a
    sales yard. Sales yards and other distribution facilities
    located on waterways and rail lines allow us to reach markets
    that do not have locally available sources of aggregates.

 



    Zoning and permitting regulations in some markets have made it
    increasingly difficult to expand existing quarries or to develop
    new quarries. However, such regulations, while potentially
    curtailing expansion in certain areas, could also increase the
    value of our reserves at existing locations.


 


    We sell a relatively small amount of construction aggregates
    outside of the United States, principally in the areas
    surrounding our large quarry on the Yucatan Peninsula in Mexico.
    Nondomestic sales and long-lived assets outside the United
    States are reported in Note 15 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Item 8 “Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data.”


 



    2. CONCRETE
    


 


    We produce and sell ready-mixed concrete in Arizona, California,
    Florida, Georgia, Maryland, New Mexico, Texas and Virginia.
    Additionally, we produce and sell, in a limited number of these
    markets, other concrete products such as block and pre-cast
    beams. We also resell purchased building materials for use with
    ready-mixed concrete and concrete block.


 


    This segment relies on our reserves of aggregates, functioning
    essentially as a customer to our aggregates operations.
    Aggregates are a major component in ready-mixed concrete,
    comprising approximately 78% by weight of this product. We meet
    the aggregates requirements of our Concrete segment almost
    wholly through our Aggregates segment. These product transfers
    are made at local market prices for the particular grade and
    quality of material required.


 


    We  serve our Concrete segment customers  from our local production facilities or by truck. Because
    ready-mixed concrete hardens rapidly, delivery typically is
    within  close proximity to the producing facility.


 


    Ready-mixed concrete production also requires cement. In the
    Florida market, cement requirements for ready-mixed concrete
    production are supplied substantially by our Cement segment. In
    other markets, we purchase cement from third-party suppliers.
    We do not anticipate any material difficulties in obtaining the
    raw materials necessary for this segment to operate.


 



    3. ASPHALT MIX
    


 


    We produce and sell asphalt mix in Arizona, California, New
    Mexico and Texas. This segment relies on our reserves of
    aggregates, functioning essentially as a customer to our
    aggregates operations. Aggregates are a major component in
    asphalt mix, comprising approximately 95% by weight of this
    product. We meet the aggregates requirements for our Asphalt mix
    segment almost wholly through our Aggregates segment. These
    product transfers are made at local market prices for the
    particular grade and quality of material required.


 


    Because asphalt mix hardens rapidly, delivery typically is
    within  close proximity to the producing facility. The asphalt
    production process requires liquid asphalt, which we purchase
    entirely from third-party producers. We serve our Asphalt mix
    segment customers from our local production facilities or by
    truck.


 



    4. CEMENT
    


 


    Our Newberry, Florida cement plant produces Portland and masonry
    cement that we sell in both bulk and bags to the concrete
    products industry. Our Tampa, Florida facility can import and
    export cement and slag. Some of the imported cement is resold,
    and the balance of the cement is blended, bagged, or reprocessed
    into specialty cements that we then sell. The slag is ground and
    sold in blended or unblended form. Our Port Manatee, Florida
    facility can import cement clinker

 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         11
    






Table of Contents







that is ground into bulk
    cement and sold. Our Brooksville, Florida plant produces calcium
    products for the animal feed, paint, plastics and joint compound
    industries.


 


    The Cement segment’s largest single customer is our own
    ready-mixed concrete operations within the Concrete segment.


 


    During 2010, we began operating the newly expanded Newberry
    cement facility. This plant is supplied by limestone mined at
    the facility. These limestone reserves total 192.7 million
    tons.

 

    Our Brooksville, Florida calcium facility is supplied with high
    quality calcium carbonate material mined at the Brooksville
    quarry. The calcium carbonate reserves at this quarry total
     6.3 million tons.

 


    OTHER BUSINESS
    RELATED ITEMS
    


 



    SEASONALITY
    AND CYCLICAL NATURE OF OUR BUSINESS


 


    Almost all our products are produced and consumed outdoors.
    Seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions can affect
    the production and sales volumes of our products. Therefore, the
    financial results for any quarter do not necessarily indicate
    the results expected for the year. Normally, the highest sales
    and earnings are in the third quarter and the lowest are in the
    first quarter. Furthermore, our sales and earnings are sensitive
    to national, regional and local economic conditions and
    particularly to cyclical swings in construction spending,
    primarily in the private sector. The levels of construction
    spending are affected by changing interest rates and demographic
    and population fluctuations.


 



    CUSTOMERS


 


    No material part of our business is dependent upon any customers
    whose loss would have an adverse effect on our business. In
    2010, our top five customers accounted for 4.3% of our total
    revenues (excluding internal sales), and no single customer
    accounted for more than 1.3% of our total revenues. Our products
    typically are sold to private industry and not directly to
    governmental entities. Although approximately 45% to 55% of our
    aggregates shipments have historically been used in publicly
    funded construction, such as highways, airports and government
    buildings, relatively insignificant sales are made directly to
    federal, state, county or municipal governments/agencies.
    Therefore, although reductions in state and federal funding can
    curtail publicly funded construction, our business is not
    directly subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of
    contracts with state or federal governments.


 



    RESEARCH
    AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS


 


    We conduct research and development and technical service
    activities at our Technical Service Center in Birmingham,
    Alabama. In general, these efforts are directed toward new and
    more efficient uses of our products and support customers in
    pursuing the most efficient use of our products. We spent
    $1.6 million in 2010 and $1.5 million in both 2009 and
    2008 on research and development activities.


 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    COSTS AND GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION


 


    Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and
    regulations relating to the environment and to health and
    safety, including regulation of noise, water discharge, air
    quality, dust control, zoning and permitting. We estimate that
    capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in
    2011 and 2012 will be approximately $8.4 million and
    $10.5 million, respectively.


 


    Frequently, we are required by state and local regulations or
    contractual obligations to reclaim our former mining sites.
    These reclamation liabilities are recorded in our financial
    statements as a liability at the time the obligation arises. The
    fair value of such obligations is capitalized and depreciated
    over the estimated useful life of the owned or leased site. The
    liability is accreted through charges to operating expenses. To
    determine the fair value, we estimate the cost for a third party to perform the legally required reclamation, which is adjusted
    for inflation and risk and includes a reasonable profit margin.


 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         12
    






Table of Contents




All reclamation obligations are reviewed at least annually.
    Reclaimed quarries often have potential for use in commercial or
    residential development or as reservoirs or landfills. However,
    no projected cash flows from these anticipated uses have been
    considered to offset or reduce the estimated reclamation
    liability.


 


    For additional information regarding reclamation obligations
    (referred to in our financial statements as asset retirement
    obligations), see Notes 1 and 17 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Item 8 “Financial Statements
    and Supplementary Data.”


 



    PATENTS
    AND TRADEMARKS


 


    We do not own or have a license or other rights under any
    patents, trademarks or trade names that are material to any of
    our reporting segments.

 




    OTHER
    INFORMATION REGARDING VULCAN


 


    Vulcan is a New Jersey corporation incorporated on
    February 14, 2007, but its predecessor company was
    incorporated on September 27, 1956. Our principal sources
    of energy are electricity, diesel fuel, natural gas and coal. We
    do not anticipate any difficulty in obtaining sources of energy
    required for operation of any of our reporting segments (i.e.,
    Aggregates, Concrete, Asphalt mix, and Cement).


 


    As of January 1, 2011, we employed 7,749 people in the
    U.S. Of these employees, 795 are represented by labor
    unions. We also employ 245 union hourly employees in Mexico. We
    do not anticipate any significant issues with such unions in
    2011.


 


    We do not consider our backlog of orders to be material to, or a
    significant factor in, evaluating and understanding our business.


 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         13
    






Table of Contents






    INVESTOR INFORMATION
    


 


    We make available on our website,
    www.vulcanmaterials.com, free of charge, copies of our


 




    
    



        § 

        Annual Report on
    Form 10-K




 



        § 

        Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q




 



        § 

        Current Reports on
    Form 8-K





 


    We also provide amendments to those reports filed with or
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
    “SEC”) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as well as all Forms 3, 4
    and 5 filed with the SEC by our executive officers and
    directors, as soon as the filings are made publicly available by
    the SEC on its EDGAR database (www.sec.gov).


 


    The public may read and copy materials filed with the SEC at the
    Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE,
    Washington, D. C. 20549. The public may obtain information on
    the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-732-0330.
    In addition to accessing copies of our reports online, you may
    request a copy of our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    including financial statements, by writing to Jerry F. Perkins
    Jr., Secretary, Vulcan Materials Company, 1200 Urban Center
    Drive, Birmingham, Alabama 35242.


 


    We have a


 




    
    



        § 

        Business Conduct Policy applicable to all employees and directors




 



        § 

        Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers





 


    Copies of the Business Conduct Policy and the Code of Ethics are
    available on our website under the heading “Corporate
    Governance.” If we make any amendment to, or waiver of, any
    provision of the Code of Ethics, we will disclose such
    information on our website as well as through filings with the
    SEC.


 


    Our Board of Directors has also adopted


 




    
    



        § 

        Corporate Governance Guidelines




 



        § 

        Charters for its Audit, Compensation and Governance Committees





 


    These documents meet all applicable SEC and New York Stock
    Exchange regulatory requirements.


 


    Each of these documents is available on our website under the
    heading, “Corporate Governance,” or you may request a
    copy of any of these documents by writing to Jerry F. Perkins
    Jr., Secretary, Vulcan Materials Company, 1200 Urban Center
    Drive, Birmingham, Alabama 35242.




 

 



    ITEM 1A


 


    RISK FACTORS



 




    An investment in our common stock involves risks. You should
    carefully consider the following risks, together with the
    information included in or incorporated by reference in this
    report, before deciding whether an investment in our common
    stock is suitable for you. If any of these risks actually
    occurs, our business, results of operations or financial
    condition could be materially and adversely affected. In such an
    event, the trading prices of our common stock could decline and
    you might lose all or part of your investment. The following is
    a list of our risk factors.


 



    FINANCIAL/ACCOUNTING
    RISKS


 


    We incurred additional debt to finance the Florida Rock
    merger which significantly increased our interest expense,
    financial leverage and debt service requirements —
    We incurred considerable short-term and long-term debt to
    finance the Florida Rock merger. This debt, which significantly
    increased our leverage, has been a significant factor resulting
    in downgrades in our credit ratings.

 


Our cash flow is reduced by payments of principal and interest
    on this debt. Our debt instruments contain various financial and
    contractual restrictions. If we fail to comply with any of these
    covenants, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated
    indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated
    maturity. An event of default under our debt instruments


 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         14
    






Table of Contents




    also
    could significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or
    alternative financing. Our debt ratings are currently under
    review for possible downgrade. If one or both rating agencies
    downgrade our ratings, it could further affect our ability to
    access financing.

 



    Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our
    obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our
    operating and financial performance, which, in turn, is subject
    to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and
    other factors some of which are beyond our control.


 


    Difficult and volatile conditions in the credit markets could
    affect our financial position, results of operations and cash
    flows — The current economic environment has
    negatively affected the U.S. economy and demand for our
    products. Commercial and residential construction may continue
    to decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance
    construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to
    cause delays or cancellations of capital projects.


 


    A slow economic recovery also may increase the likelihood we
    will not be able to collect on our accounts receivable from our
    customers. We have experienced payment delays from some of our
    customers during this economic downturn.


 


    The credit environment could limit our ability to obtain
    additional financing or refinancing and, if available, it may
    not be at economically favorable terms. Interest rates on new
    issuances of long-term public debt in the market may increase
    due to higher credit spreads and risk premiums. There is no
    guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at
    favorable interest rates, which could negatively affect our
    financial results.


 


    We may need to obtain financing in order to fund certain
    strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or refinance our
    outstanding debt. We also are exposed to risks from tightening
    credit markets, especially in regard to access to debt and
    equity capital.


 


    Our industry is capital intensive, resulting in significant
    fixed and semi-fixed costs. Therefore, our earnings are highly
    sensitive to changes in volume — Due to the high
    levels of fixed capital required for extracting and producing
    construction aggregates, both our dollar profits and our
    percentage of net sales (margin) can be negatively affected by
    decreases in volume.


 


    We use estimates in accounting for a number of significant
    items. Changes in our estimates could affect our future
    financial results — As discussed more fully in
    “Critical Accounting Policies” under Item 6
    “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations,” we use significant
    judgment in accounting for


 




    
    



        § 

        goodwill and goodwill impairment




 



        § 

        impairment of long-lived assets excluding goodwill




 



        § 

        reclamation costs




 



        § 

        pension and other postretirement benefits




 



        § 

        environmental compliance




 



        § 

        claims and litigation including self-insurance




 



        § 

        income taxes





 


    We believe we have sufficient experience and reasonable
    procedures to enable us to make appropriate assumptions and
    formulate reasonable estimates; however, these assumptions and
    estimates could change significantly in the future and could
    adversely affect our financial position, results of operations,
    or cash flows.


 



    ECONOMIC/POLITICAL
    RISKS


 


    Both commercial and residential construction are dependent
    upon the overall U.S. economy which has been recovering at
    a slow pace — Commercial and residential
    construction levels generally move with economic cycles. When
    the economy is strong, construction levels rise and when the
    economy is weak, construction levels fall. The overall
    U.S. economy has been adversely affected by this recession.
    Although most economists believe that the U.S. economy is
    now in recovery, the pace of recovery has been very slow. Since
    construction activity generally lags the recovery after down
    cycles, construction projects have not returned to their
    pre-recession levels.


 




Above average number of foreclosures, low housing starts and
    general weakness in the housing market continue to negatively
    affect demand for our products — In most of our
    markets, particularly Florida and California, sales volumes have
    been negatively impacted by foreclosures and a significant
    decline in residential construction. Our sales volumes and
    earnings


 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         15
    






Table of Contents





    could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted
    by this segment of the market until the recovery in residential
    construction improves.

 



    Lack of a multi-year federal highway bill and changes to the
    funding mechanism for highway funding could cause states to
    spend less on roads — The last multi-year federal
    transportation bill, known as SAFETEA-LU, expired on
    September 30, 2009. Since that time, funding for
    transportation projects, including highways, has been provided
    pursuant to a series of continuing resolutions and the HIRE Act.
    The current continuing resolution is set to expire on
    March 4, 2011. Additionally, in January 2011, the House
    passed a new rules package that repealed transportation law
    dating back to 1998, which protected annual funding levels from
    amendments that could reduce such funding. This rule change
    subjects funding for highways to yearly appropriation reviews.
    Both the lack of a multi-year bill and the change in the funding
    mechanism increases the uncertainty of many state departments of
    transportation regarding funds for highway projects. This
    uncertainty could result in states being reluctant to undertake
    large multi-year highway projects which could, in turn,
    negatively affect our sales.


 


    Changes in legal requirements and governmental policies
    concerning zoning, land use, environmental and other areas of
    the law impact our business — Our operations are
    affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and
    regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental
    matters. Despite our compliance efforts, we have an inherent
    risk of liability in the operation of our business, especially
    from an environmental standpoint. These potential liabilities
    could have an adverse impact on our operations and
    profitability. In addition, our operations require numerous
    governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to
    make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply
    with zoning and environmental laws and regulations. Stricter
    laws and regulations, or more stringent interpretations of
    existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us,
    reduce operating hours, require additional investment by us in
    pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or
    expanding existing plants or facilities.


 


    Climate change and climate change legislation or regulations
    may adversely impact our business — A number of
    governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating
    legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential
    impacts of climate change. Such legislation or regulation, if
    enacted, potentially could include provisions for a “cap
    and trade” system of allowances and credits, among other
    provisions. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
    promulgated a mandatory reporting rule covering greenhouse gas
    emissions from sources considered to be large emitters. The EPA
    has also promulgated a greenhouse gas emissions permitting rule,
    referred to as the “Tailoring Rule” which requires
    permitting of large emitters of greenhouse gases under the
    Federal Clean Air Act. We have determined that our Newbery
    cement plant is subject to both the reporting rule and the
    permitting rule, although the impacts of the permitting rule are
    uncertain at this time. The first required greenhouse gas
    emissions report for the Newberry cement plant will be submitted
    to the Federal EPA by March 31, 2011.


 


    Other potential impacts of climate change include physical
    impacts such as disruption in production and product
    distribution due to impacts from major storm events, shifts in
    regional weather patterns and intensities, and potential impacts
    from sea level changes. There is also a potential for climate
    change legislation and regulation to adversely impact the cost
    of purchased energy and electricity.


 


    The impacts of climate change on our operations and the company
    overall are highly uncertain and difficult to estimate. However,
    climate change and legislation and regulation concerning
    greenhouse gases could have a material adverse effect on our
    future financial position, results of operations or cash flows.


 



    GROWTH AND
    COMPETITIVE RISKS


 


    Within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive
    industry — The construction aggregates industry is
    highly fragmented with a large number of independent local
    producers in a number of our markets. Additionally, in most
    markets, we also compete against large private and public
    companies, some of which are more vertically integrated than we
    are. Therefore, there is intense competition in a number of
    markets in which we operate. This significant competition could
    lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in
    some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows.
    In certain markets, vertically integrated competitors have
    acquired a portion of our asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete
    customers and this trend may continue to accelerate.


 


    Our long-term success depends upon securing and permitting
    aggregates reserves in strategically located areas —
    Construction aggregates are bulky and heavy and, therefore,
    difficult to transport efficiently. Because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly surpass the production
    costs. Therefore, except for geographic regions that do not
    possess commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are
    served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for our products tend to be
    very localized around our quarry sites and are served by truck.
    New quarry sites often take a number of years to develop,


 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         16
    






Table of Contents





    therefore our strategic planning and new site development must
    stay ahead of actual growth. Additionally, in a number of urban
    and suburban areas in which we operate, it is increasingly
    difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to
    community resistance. Therefore, our future success is
    dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future
    areas of high growth in order to locate optimal facility sites
    and on our ability to secure operating and environmental permits
    to operate at those sites.


 


    Our future growth depends in part on acquiring other
    businesses in our industry and successfully integrating them
    with our existing operations — The expansion of
    our business is dependent in part on the acquisition of existing
    businesses that own or control aggregates reserves. Disruptions
    in the availability of credit and financing could make it more
    difficult to capitalize on potential acquisitions. Additionally,
    with regard to the acquisitions we are able to complete, our
    future results will be dependent in part on our ability to
    successfully integrate these businesses with our existing
    operations.


 



    PERSONNEL
    RISKS


 


    Our future success greatly depends upon attracting and
    retaining qualified personnel, particularly in sales and
    operations — A significant factor in our future
    profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain
    qualified personnel. Our success in attracting qualified
    personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and operations, is
    affected by changing demographics of the available pool of
    workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the
    available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to
    general economic conditions, and our ability to offer
    competitive compensation and benefit packages.


 


    The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our
    employees have risen in recent years. Continuing increases in
    such costs could negatively affect our earnings —
    The costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to
    our employees have increased substantially over the past several
    years. We have instituted measures to help slow the rate of
    increase. However, if these costs continue to rise, we could
    suffer an adverse effect on our financial position, results of
    operations or cash flows.


 



    OTHER
    RISKS


 


    Weather can materially affect our operating
    results — Almost all of our products are used in
    the public or private construction industry, and our production
    and distribution facilities are located outdoors. Inclement
    weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our
    products and affects our customers’ short-term demand
    because their work also can be hampered by weather. Therefore,
    our financial results can be negatively affected by inclement
    weather.


 


    Our products are transported by truck, rail, barge or ship,
    primarily by third-party providers. Significant delays or
    increased costs affecting these transportation methods could
    materially affect our operations and earnings —
    Our products are distributed either by truck to local
    markets or by rail, barge or oceangoing vessel to remote
    markets. The costs of transporting our products could be
    negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including
    rail service interruptions or rate increases, tariffs, rising
    fuel costs and capacity constraints. Additionally, inclement
    weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather
    events, can negatively impact our distribution network.


 


    We use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid
    asphalt and other petroleum-based resources that are subject to
    potential supply constraints and significant price
    fluctuation — In our production and distribution
    processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel
    fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources. The
    availability and pricing of these resources are subject to
    market forces that are beyond our control. Our suppliers
    contract separately for the purchase of such resources and our
    sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not
    be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other
    factors that interrupt their availability. Variability in the
    supply and prices of these resources could materially affect our
    operating results from period to period and rising costs could
    erode our profitability.


 


    We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot
    predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with
    certainty — We are involved in several class
    action and complex litigation proceedings, some arising from our
    previous ownership and operation of our Chemicals business.
    Although we divested our Chemicals business in June 2005, we
    retained certain liabilities related to the business. As
    required by generally accepted accounting principles, we
    establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and
    the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our assessment of probability and
    loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to
    us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in
    legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of a
    loss contingency, and could result in an adverse effect on our
    financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. For a
    description of our current significant legal proceedings see
    Note 12 “Commitments and Contingencies” in
    Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data.”




 






    
    



        Part
    I
    
         17
    






Table of Contents





 


    We are involved in certain environmental matters. We cannot
    predict the outcome of these contingencies with
    certainty — We are involved in environmental
    investigations and cleanups at sites where we operate or have
    operated in the past or sent materials for recycling or
    disposal, primarily in connection with our divested Chemicals
    and Metals businesses. As required by generally accepted
    accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is
    determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably
    estimated. Our assessment of probability and loss estimates are
    based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular
    point in time. Subsequent developments related to these matters
    may affect our assessment and estimates of loss contingency, and
    could result in an adverse effect on our financial position,
    results of operations, or cash flows. For a description of our
    current significant environmental matters see Note 12
    “Commitments and Contingencies” in Item 8
    “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”




 

 



    ITEM 1B