Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the date of any document incorporated by reference. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

 



 

 

3





 

  





 

PART I

ITEM 1.        BUSINESS

The Company

Vornado Realty Trust (“Vornado”) is a fully‑integrated real estate investment trust (“REIT”) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the “Operating Partnership”).  Vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 93.2% of the common limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership at December 31, 2010.  All references to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” and “Vornado” refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership. 

 

As of December 31, 2010, we own:

 

Office Properties: 

(i)               all or portions of 28 properties aggregating 17.4 million square feet in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan);

 

(ii)         all or portions of 82 properties aggregating 21.1 million square feet in the Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area; 

 

(iii)        a 70% controlling interest in 555 California Street, a three-building complex aggregating 1.8 million square feet in San Francisco’s financial district, known as the Bank of America Center; 

 

Retail Properties: 

(iv)        161 properties aggregating 25.6 million square feet primarily in Manhattan, the northeast states, California and Puerto Rico;

 

Merchandise Mart Properties: 

(v)         6 properties aggregating 6.9 million square feet of showroom and office space, including the 3.5 million square foot Merchandise Mart in Chicago;  

 

Toys “R” Us, Inc. (“Toys”):

(vi)        a 32.7% interest in Toys which owns and/or operates 1,589 stores worldwide, including 857 stores in the United States and 732 stores internationally;  

 

Other Investments: 

 

(vii)       32.4% of the common stock of Alexander’s, Inc. (NYSE: ALX), which has seven properties aggregating 3.2 million square feet in the greater New York metropolitan area;

 

(viii)      the Hotel Pennsylvania containing 1.4 million square feet in New York City;

 

(ix)        a 9.9% economic interest in J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP), a major retailer that operates 1,108 department stores nationwide;

 

(x)         a 26.2% equity interest in LNR Property Corporation, an industry leading servicer and special servicer of commercial mortgage loans and CMBS, and a diversified real estate, investment and finance company;

 

(xi)        a 36.4% interest in our real estate investment fund in which we are the general partner and investment manager with aggregate equity commitments of $550 million, of which we committed $200 million; and

 

(xii)       other real estate and investments, including marketable securities and mezzanine loans on real estate.



 

 

4





 
  


 
Objectives and Strategy
Our business objective is to maximize shareholder
value. We intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our
investment philosophy and executing our operating strategies through:
 
·     
Maintaining a superior team of operating and
investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit;
·     
Investing in properties in select markets, such as
New York City and Washington, DC, where we believe there is a high
likelihood of capital appreciation;
·     
Acquiring quality properties at a discount to
replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher
rents;
·     
Investing in retail properties in select
under-stored locations such as the New York City metropolitan area;
·     
Developing and redeveloping our existing properties
to increase returns and maximize value; and
·        
Investing in operating companies that have a
significant real estate component.
 
We expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and
investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales
and by accessing the public and private capital markets.  We may also offer
Vornado common or preferred shares or Operating Partnership units in exchange
for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire our shares or any other
securities in the future.
 
 
BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT
 
Substantially
all businesses, including ours, were negatively affected by the 2008/2009
economic recession and illiquidity and volatility in the capital and financial
markets.  Although there are signs of an economic recovery and greater
stability in the capital and financial markets, it is not possible for us to
predict whether these trends will continue in the future or quantify the impact
of these or any other trends on our financial results.
 
 
ACQUISITIONS and investments
 
Vornado Capital Partners, L.P. and Vornado Capital
Partners Parallel, L.P. (the “Fund”)
On July 6, 2010,
we completed an initial closing of the Fund with aggregate equity commitments of
$550,000,000, of which we committed $200,000,000.  We expect to close on an
additional $250,000,000 of equity commitments in the first quarter of
2011.  We are the general partner and investment manager of the Fund and it
is our exclusive investment vehicle during the three-year investment period for
all investments that fit within the Fund’s investment parameters, including
debt, equity and other interests in real estate, and excluding (i) investments
in vacant land and ground-up development; (ii) investments acquired by merger or
primarily for our securities or properties; (iii) properties which can be
combined with or relate to our existing properties; (iv) securities of
commercial mortgage loan servicers and investments derived from any such
investments; (v) noncontrolling interests in equity and debt securities; and
(vi) investments located outside of North America.   The Fund has a
term of eight years.  We consolidate the accounts of the Fund into our
consolidated financial statements.  In 2010, we incurred $6,482,000 for
organization costs of the Fund, net of the Fund’s reimbursement to us, which are
included in “general and administrative” expenses on our consolidated statement
of income.  
The Fund is
accounted for under the AICPA Investment Company Guide and its investments are
reported on its balance sheet at fair value, with changes in value each period
recognized in earnings.  As of December 31, 2010, the Fund received
$146,789,000 of capital from partners, including $53,378,000 from us. 
During the second half of 2010, the Fund made four investments aggregating
approximately $145,000,000 and reimbursed us for $1,500,000 of organization
costs.  

 
 
5


   


 
ACQUISITIONS and investments – continued

 
Investment in J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (“J.C.
Penney”) (NYSE: JCP)
 
We own an
economic interest in 23,400,000 J.C. Penney common shares, or 9.9% of J.C.
Penney’s outstanding common shares.  Below are the details of our
investment. 
 
We own
18,584,010 common shares at an average price of $25.70 per share, or
$477,678,000 in the aggregate.  These shares, which have an aggregate fair
value of $600,449,000 at December 31, 2010, are included in marketable equity
securities on our consolidated balance sheet and are classified as “available
for sale.”  Of these shares, 15,500,000 were acquired through the exercise
of a call option that originated on September 28, 2010 and settled on November
9, 2010.  During the period in which the call option was outstanding and
classified as a derivative instrument, we recognized $112,537,000 of income from
the mark-to-market of the underlying common shares, which is included in
“interest and other investment income (loss), net” on our consolidated statement
of income.  During the period from November 10 through December 31, 2010,
we recognized $10,234,000 from the mark-to-market of the common shares
classified as available-for-sale, which is included in “accumulated other
comprehensive income” (a component of shareholders’ equity on our consolidated
balance sheet).  
 
We also own an
economic interest in 4,815,990 common shares through a forward contract executed
on October 7, 2010, at a weighted average strike price of $28.65 per share, or
$137,989,000 in the aggregate.  The contract may be settled, at our
election, in cash or common shares, in whole or in part, at any time prior to
October 9, 2012.  The counterparty may accelerate settlement, in whole or
in part, upon one year’s notice to us.  The strike price per share
increases at an annual rate of LIBOR plus 80 basis points and decreases for
dividends received on the shares.  The contract is a derivative instrument
that does not qualify for hedge accounting treatment.  Mark-to-market
adjustments on the underlying common shares are recognized in “interest and
other investment income (loss), net” on our consolidated statement of
income.  During the period from October 7, 2010 through December 31, 2010,
we recognized $17,616,000 of income from the mark-to-market of this position,
based on J.C. Penney’s closing share price of $32.31 per share at December 31,
2010.
As of December
31, 2010, the aggregate economic net gain on our investment in J.C. Penney was
$140,387,000, based on J.C. Penney’s closing share price of $32.31 per share and
our weighted average cost of $26.31 per share.
 
Investment in LNR Property Corporation
(“LNR”)
On July 29,
2010, as a part of LNR’s recapitalization, we acquired a 26.2% equity interest
in LNR for $116,000,000 in cash and conversion into equity of our $15,000,000
mezzanine loan (the then current carrying amount) made to LNR’s parent, Riley
Holdco Corp.  The recapitalization involved an infusion of a total of
$417,000,000 in new cash equity and the reduction of LNR’s total debt to
$425,000,000 from $1.3 billion, excluding liabilities related to the
consolidated CMBS and CDO trusts described below.  We account for our
equity interest in LNR under the equity method on a one-quarter lag basis.

LNR consolidates
certain commercial mortgage-backed securities (“CMBS”) and Collateralized Debt
Obligation (“CDO”) trusts for which it is the primary beneficiary.  The
assets of these trusts (primarily commercial mortgage loans), which aggregate
approximately $142 billion as of September 30, 2010, are the sole source of
repayment of the related liabilities, which are non-recourse to LNR and its
equity holders, including us.  Changes in the fair value of these assets
each period are offset by changes in the fair value of the related liabilities
through LNR’s consolidated income statement. 
 
510 Fifth
Avenue
On October 8,
2010, we acquired 510 Fifth Avenue, a 59,000 square foot retail property located
at 43rd Street and Fifth Avenue in New York, for $57,000,000,
comprised of $24,700,000 in cash and $32,300,000 of existing debt. 
  
San Jose, California
 
On October 15,
2010, we acquired the 55% interest that we did not already own of a 646,000
square foot retail property located in San Jose, California, for $97,000,000,
consisting of $27,000,000 in cash and $70,000,000 of existing debt. 

 
Atlantic City, New Jersey
 
On November 4,
2010, we acquired 11.3 acres of the land under a portion of the Borgata Hotel
and Casino complex for $83,000,000 in cash.  The land is leased to the
partnership that controls the Borgata Hotel and Casino complex through December
2070.  In January 2011, we completed a 10-year $60,000,000 financing of
this land.  The loan has a fixed interest rate of 5.14% and amortizes
beginning in the third year, based on a 30-year schedule.
 

 
 
6


 
  





 

Dispositions

On October 20, 2010, we sold a 45% ownership interest in 1299 Pennsylvania Avenue (the Warner Building) and 1101 17th Street, for $236,700,000, comprised of $91,000,000 in cash and the assumption of existing mortgage debt.  We retained the remaining 55% ownership interest and continue to manage and lease the properties.  Based on the Warner Building’s implied fair value of $445,000,000, we recognized a net gain of $54,000,000 in the fourth quarter of 2010.  The gain on 1101 17th Street, based on an implied fair value of $81,000,000, will be recognized when we monetize our investment.

On January 12, 2011, we sold 1140 Connecticut Avenue and contracted to sell 1227 25th Street, subject to customary closing conditions, for an aggregate price of $127,000,000.  We will retain net proceeds of approximately $107,000,000, after repaying an existing mortgage and recognize a net gain of approximately $44,000,000 in the first quarter of 2011.

In March 2010, we ceased making debt service payments on the mortgage loan secured by the High Point Complex in North Carolina as a result of insufficient cash flow and the loan went into default.  In November 2010, the property was placed in receivership.  While the receivership process is inherently lengthy, we anticipate that the property will be sold in the first half of 2011, at which time the assets and liabilities will be removed from our consolidated balance sheet and we will recognize a net gain of approximately $80,000,000.

 

 

Financing Activities

On February 11, 2011, we completed a $425,000,000 refinancing of Two Penn Plaza, a 1.6 million square foot Manhattan office building.  The seven-year loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.00%, which was swapped for the term of the loan to a fixed rate of 5.13%.  The loan amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the fourth year.  We retained net proceeds of approximately $139,000,000 after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. 

 

On February 10, 2011, we completed a $150,000,000 financing of 2121 Crystal Drive, a 506,000 square foot office building located in Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia.  The 12-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 5.51% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in third year.  This property was previously unencumbered.

 

On January 10, 2011, we completed a $75,000,000 financing of North Bergen (Tonnelle Avenue), a 410,000 square foot strip shopping center.  The seven-year fixed rate loan bears interest rate at 4.59%, provides for interest only payments during the first five years of the term and amortizes based on a 25-year schedule. This property was previously unencumbered.

 

In December 2010, we acquired the mortgage loan secured by the Springfield Mall, located in Fairfax County, Virginia for $115,000,000 in cash.  The loan had an outstanding balance of $171,500,000.  In a separate transaction, we acquired our partner’s interest in the partnership that owns the mall in exchange for $25,000,000 in Operating Partnership units.  These transactions resulted in a $102,932,000 net gain on early extinguishment of debt.

 

In August 2010, we sold $660,000,000 of 10-year mortgage notes in a single issuer securitization.  The notes are comprised of a $600,000,000 fixed rate component and a $60,000,000 variable rate component and are cross-collateralized by 40 of our strip shopping centers.  The $600,000,000 fixed rate portion bears interest at an initial rate of 4.18% and a weighted average rate of 4.31% over the 10-year term and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule.  The variable rate portion bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.36%, with a 1% floor (2.36% at December 31, 2010).

 

In March 2010, we completed a public offering of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior unsecured notes due April 1, 2015 and retained net proceeds of approximately $496,000,000.  The notes were sold at 99.834% of their face amount to yield 4.287%.  The notes can be redeemed without penalty beginning January 1, 2015.  

 

In 2010, through open market repurchases and tender offers, we purchased $270,491,000 aggregate face amount ($264,476,000 aggregate carrying amount) of our convertible senior debentures and $17,000,000 aggregate face amount ($16,981,000 aggregate carrying amount) of our senior unsecured notes for $274,857,000 and $17,382,000 in cash, respectively, resulting in a net loss of $10,381,000 and $401,000, respectively.

 

 



 

 

7





 
  


 
Development and Redevelopment
Projects
 
We expended
$156,775,000 in 2010 to complete development projects.  
 
On
October 1, 2010, Arlington County adopted a new Sector Plan for Crystal City
that provides for additional density and increased building heights which would
permit us to grow our assets in Crystal City from 8.0 million square
feet currently to as much as 11.5 million square feet. 
 
During 2010, we
entered into agreements with Cuyahoga County, Ohio (the “County”) to develop and
operate the Cleveland Medical Mart and Convention Center (the “Facility”), a
1,000,000 square foot showroom, trade show and conference center in Cleveland’s
central business district.  The County will fund the development of the
Facility, using proceeds from the issuance of general obligation bonds and other
sources, up to the development budget of $465,000,000 and maintain effective
control of the property.  During the 17-year development and operating
period, we will receive net settled payments of approximately $10,000,000 per
year, which is net of our $36,000,000 annual obligation to the County.  Our
obligation has been pledged by the County to the bondholders, but is payable by
us only to the extent that we first receive at least an equal payment from the
County.  We engaged a contractor to construct the Facility pursuant to a
guaranteed maximum price contract.  Although we are ultimately responsible
for cost overruns, the contractor is responsible for all costs incurred in
excess of its contract and has provided a completion guaranty. 
Construction of the Facility is expected to be completed in 2013. 
Subsequent thereto, we are required to fund $11,500,000, primarily for tenant
improvements, are responsible for all operating expenses and are entitled to the
net operating income, if any, of the Facility.  The County may terminate
the operating agreement five years from the completion of development and
periodically thereafter, if we fail to achieve certain performance
thresholds.  We plan to account for these agreements using criteria set
forth in ASC 605-25, Multiple-Element Arrangements, as we are
providing development, marketing, leasing, and other property management related
services over the 17-year term.  We plan to recognize development fees
using the percentage of completion method of accounting. 
  
We are also
evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities for which final
plans, budgeted costs and financing have yet to be determined.  These
projects include the Springfield Mall in Springfield, Virginia and the Hotel
Pennsylvania and 220 Central Park South in Manhattan.
 
There can be no
assurance that any of our development projects will commence, or if commenced,
be completed on schedule or within budget.
 
 
Segment Data
We operate in the following business segments: New
York Office Properties, Washington, DC Office Properties, Retail Properties,
Merchandise Mart Properties and Toys “R” Us.  Financial information related
to these business segments for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008
is set forth in Note 22 – Segment Information to our consolidated financial
statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The Merchandise Mart
Properties segment has trade show operations in Canada and Switzerland. The Toys
segment has 732 locations internationally. 
 
SEASONALITY
Our revenues and expenses are subject to
seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and
funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter
to the previous quarter. The business of Toys is highly seasonal. Historically,
Toys’ fourth quarter net income, which we record on a one-quarter lag basis in
our first quarter, accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. The
New York and Washington, DC Office Properties and Merchandise Mart Properties
segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and
third quarters of the year. The Merchandise Mart Properties segment has also
experienced higher earnings in the second and fourth quarters of the year due to
major trade shows occurring in those quarters. The Retail Properties segment
revenue in the fourth quarter is typically higher due to the recognition of
percentage rental income. 

 
 
8


 
  





 

 

tenants ACCOUNTING FOR over 10% of revenues

None of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.

 

Certain Activities

We are not required to base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. We have historically held our properties for long‑term investment; however, it is possible that properties in the portfolio may be sold as circumstances warrant. Further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. While we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our Board of Trustees without the vote of shareholders.

 

Employees 

As of December 31, 2010, we have approximately 4,780 employees, of which 317 are corporate staff. The New York Office Properties segment has 126 employees and an additional 2,680 employees of Building Maintenance Services LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our New York Office and Washington, DC Office properties. The Washington, DC Office Properties, Retail Properties and Merchandise Mart Properties segments have 400, 176 and 576 employees, respectively, and the Hotel Pennsylvania has 505 employees. The foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities, including Toys or Alexander’s, of which we own 32.7% and 32.4%, respectively.

 

principal executive offices

Our principal executive offices are located at 888 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019; telephone (212) 894‑7000.  

 

MATERIALS AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE 

 

Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10‑K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10‑Q, Current Reports on Form 8‑K, and amendments to those reports, as well as Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on our website are copies of our Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines. In the event of any changes to these charters or 
the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website.  Copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge.  Our website also includes other financial information about us, including certain non-GAAP financial measures, none of which is a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



 

 

9





 

  





 

ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS

Material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below.

 

Real Estate Investments’ Value and Income Fluctuate Due to Various Factors.

The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. 

 

The factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things:

·      national, regional and local economic conditions;

·      competition from other available space;

·      local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area;

·      how well we manage our properties;

·         the development and/or redevelopment of our properties;

·      changes in market rental rates; 

·      the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;

·      whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants;

·      changes in real estate taxes and other expenses;   

·      whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive;

·      the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;

·      availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all;

·      fluctuations in interest rates;

·      our ability to obtain adequate insurance; 

·      changes in zoning laws and taxation;

·      government regulation; 

·      consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the United States;

·      potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; 

·         natural disasters;

·      general competitive factors; and

·         climate changes.

 

The rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. If rental revenues and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. In addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. 

 

Capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities.

There are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy, which have recently negatively affected substantially all businesses, including ours.  Demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide as it did in 2008 and 2009, due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting.  The cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants.  Our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the va
lue of our debt and equity securities.

 

Real estate is a competitive business.

Our business segments – New York Office Properties, Washington, DC Office Properties, Retail Properties, Merchandise Mart Properties and Toys – operate in a highly competitive environment. We have a large concentration of properties in the New York City metropolitan area and in the Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area. We compete with a large number of property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their investments. Principal factors of competition are rents charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth and quality of services provided. Our success depends upon, among other factors, trends of the national, regional and local economies, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of cap
ital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends.



 

 

10





 

  





 

 

We depend on leasing space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who may not be able to pay.

Our financial results depend significantly on leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable terms. If a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs.  During periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates.

 

Bankruptcy or insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash.

From time to time, some of our tenants have declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the future. In the case of our shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available for the payment of indebtedness or for distribution to shareholders.  

 

We may incur costs to comply with environmental laws.

Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contaminati
on may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and underground storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in susceptible individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances
 or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our properties.

 

Each of our properties has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. The environmental assessments did not, as of this date, reveal any environmental condition material to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us.

 

Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

 

Although neither inflation nor deflation has materially impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a pronounced negative impact on our mortgages and interest rates and general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rents.  Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending which could impact our tenants’ sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where applicable.  Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income.  In addition, we own residential properties which are leased to tenants with one-year lease terms.  Because these are short-term leases, declines in market rents will impact our residential properties faster than if the leases were for longer terms.

 



 

 

11





 
  


 
Some of our
potential losses may not be covered by insurance.
We maintain general liability insurance with limits
of $300,000,000 per occurrence and all risk property and rental value insurance
with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence, including coverage for terrorist
acts, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods.  Our California
properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $150,000,000 per
occurrence, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the
affected property, up to a $150,000,000 annual aggregate.
 
Penn Plaza Insurance Company, LLC (“PPIC”), our
wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a
portion of our earthquake insurance coverage and as a direct insurer for
coverage for acts of terrorism, including nuclear, biological, chemical and
radiological (“NBCR”) acts, as defined by TRIPRA.  Coverage for acts of
terrorism (excluding NBCR acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance
companies and the Federal government with no exposure to PPIC.  Our
coverage for NBCR losses is up to $2 billion per occurrence, for which PPIC is
responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 and 15% of the balance of a covered
loss and the Federal government is responsible for the remaining 85% of a
covered loss.  We are ultimately responsible for any loss borne by
PPIC.
 
We continue to monitor the state of the insurance
market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism.  However,
we cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable
terms in future policy years.
 
Our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans
secured by our properties which are non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes,
exchangeable senior debentures, convertible senior debentures and revolving
credit agreements, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain
insurance. Although we believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for
purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount
of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. Further, if lenders insist on
greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our
ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio. 
 
Because we
operate a hotel, we face the risks associated with the hospitality
industry.
We own and operate the Hotel Pennsylvania in New
York City. The following factors, among others, are common to the hotel industry
and may reduce the revenues generated by the hotel, which would reduce cash
available for distribution to our shareholders:
 
·     
our hotel competes for guests with other hotels, a
number of which have greater marketing and financial resources;
·     
if there is an increase in operating costs
resulting from inflation and other factors, we may not be able to offset such
increase by increasing room rates;
·     
our hotel is subject to the fluctuating and
seasonal demands of business travelers and tourism;
·     
our hotel is subject to general and local economic
and social conditions that may affect demand for travel in general, including
war and terrorism; and
·      physical condition, which may require substantial
additional capital.
 
Because of the
ownership structure of the Hotel Pennsylvania, we face potential adverse effects
from changes to the applicable tax laws.
Under the Internal Revenue Code, REITs like us are
not allowed to operate hotels directly or indirectly. Accordingly, we lease the
Hotel Pennsylvania to our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”). While the TRS
structure allows the economic benefits of ownership to flow to us, the TRS is
subject to tax on its income from the operations of the hotel at the federal and
state level. In addition, the TRS is subject to detailed tax regulations that
affect how it may be capitalized and operated. If the tax laws applicable to a
TRS are modified, we may be forced to modify the structure for owning the hotel,
and such changes may adversely affect the cash flows from the hotel. In
addition, the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Treasury Department
and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, and we cannot
predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations,
interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any such actions may prospectively
or retroactively modify the tax treatment of the TRS and, therefore, may
adversely affect our after-tax returns from the hotel.
 

 
 
12


   


 
 
Compliance or
failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety
regulations and requirements could result in substantial
costs.  
The Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”)
generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain
federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons.
Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government
or the award of damages to private litigants. From time to time persons have
asserted claims against us with respect to some of our properties under the ADA,
but to date such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability.
If, under the ADA, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital
expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access
barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to
shareholders.
 
Our properties are subject to various federal,
state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life
safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could
incur fines or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing
requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will
require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow
and results of operations.
 
Our business and operations would suffer in the
event of system failures.   
 
Despite system redundancy, the implementation of
security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal
information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any
number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy
blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication
failures.  Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our
operations could result in a material disruption to our business.  We may
also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such
disruptions.
 
We face risks associated with our tenants being
designated “Prohibited Persons” by the Office of Foreign Assets
Control.   
 
Pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and other laws,
the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the
Treasury (“OFAC”) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who
are otherwise blocked or banned (“Prohibited Persons”) from conducting business
or engaging in transactions in the United States.  Our leases, loans and
other agreements may require us to comply with OFAC requirements.  If a
tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the OFAC list
we may be required to terminate the lease or other agreement.  Any such
termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our
financial results and cash flows.
 
 

 
 
13


 
  





 

 

Our Investments Are Concentrated in the New York CITY METROPOLITAN AREA and Washington, DC / NORTHERN VIRGINIA Area. Circumstances Affecting These Areas Generally Could Adversely Affect Our Business.

 

A significant portion of our properties are located in the New York City / New Jersey metropolitan area and Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas.

During 2010, approximately 74% of our EBITDA, excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the New York City / New Jersey metropolitan areas and the Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area. We may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the United States or abroad. Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. Declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. The factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include:

 

·      financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries;

·      space needs of the United States Government, including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and repositioning under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 2005, as amended;

·      business layoffs or downsizing;

·      industry slowdowns;

·      relocations of businesses;

·      changing demographics;

·      increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places;

·      infrastructure quality; and

·      any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate.

 

It is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the United States, or the real estate markets in these areas.  Local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability.

 

Terrorist attacks, such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City and the Washington, DC area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow.

We have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the New York, Washington, DC, Chicago, Boston and San Francisco metropolitan areas. In the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. This, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially.

 

We May Acquire or Sell Assets or Entities or Develop Properties. Our Failure or Inability to Consummate These Transactions or Manage the Results of These Transactions Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results.

 

We have grown rapidly since 1999 through acquisitions. We may not be able to maintain this rapid growth and our failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price.

We have experienced rapid growth since 1999, increasing our total assets from approximately $5.5 billion at December 31, 1999 to approximately $20.5 billion at December 31, 2010. We may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future or manage growth effectively. Our failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as the amount of cash available for distributions to shareholders.



 

 

14





 

  





 

 

We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies and this may create risks.

We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development is consistent with our business strategy. We may not, however, succeed in consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or within budget. In addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or development opportunities that could increase our costs. When we do pursue a project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly developed or acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover costs of acquisition or development and operations.  Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention. Acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge
 may result in weaker than anticipated performance. We may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated. Furthermore, acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware at the time of acquisition. Development of our existing properties presents similar risks. 

 

From time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions.  The announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares.

 

We are continuously looking at material transactions that we will believe will maximize shareholder value.  However, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares and convertible and exchangeable securities.  

 

It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility.

Real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.

 

We may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs.

As part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. These agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance.

 

From time to time we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. Some of these companies operate in industries that differ from our current operations, with different risks than investing in real estate.

From time to time we make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. These investments include but are not limited to, Alexander’s, Inc. (“Alexander’s”), Toys “R” Us (“Toys”), Lexington Realty Trust (“Lexington”), J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (“J.C. Penney”), LNR Property Corporation (“LNR”) and other equity and mezzanine investments. Although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business including, without limitation, operating or managing toy stores and department stores. Consequently, investments in these businesses, among other risks, subjects us to the operating and fina
ncial risks of industries other than real estate and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. From time to time we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. Investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures, present additional risks such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. In addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. 



 

 

15





 

  





 

 

We are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment.

A substantial portion of our properties are in the retail shopping center real estate market and we have a significant investment in retailers such as Toys and J.C. Penney. This means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies. These factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the retailers in which we hold an investment and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, and in turn, adversely affect us. 

 

Our investment in Toys subjects us to risks that are different from our other lines of business and may result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings.

Because Toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. The business of Toys is highly seasonal. Historically, Toys fourth quarter net income accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. In addition, our fiscal year ends on December 31 whereas, as is common for retailers, Toys’ fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31. Therefore, we record our pro-rata share of Toys’ net earnings on a one-quarter lag basis. For example, our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2010 include Toys’ financial results for its first, second and third quarters ended October 30, 2010, as well as Toys’ fourth quarter results of 2009. Because of the seasonality of Toys, our reported net incom
e shows increased volatility. We may also, in the future and from time to time, invest in other businesses that may report financial results that are more volatile than our historical financial results.  

 

We depend upon our anchor tenants to attract shoppers.

We own several regional malls and other shopping centers that are typically anchored by well-known department stores and other tenants who generate shopping traffic at the mall or shopping center. The value of our properties would be adversely affected if tenants or anchors failed to meet their contractual obligations, sought concessions in order to continue operations or ceased their operations, including as a result of bankruptcy. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to economic conditions, closing of anchors or for other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of a default by a tenant or anchor, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord.

 

Our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results.

 

 We evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period.  If we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired.  Depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. This loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. 

  

We invest in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets.  These investments involve greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans.

We invest, and may in the future invest, in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets.  These investments, which are subordinate to the mortgage loans secured by the real property, are generally secured by pledges of the equity interests of the entities owning the underlying real estate.  These investments involve greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans which are secured by real property.  If a borrower defaults on debt to us or on debt senior to us, or declares bankruptcy, we may not be able to recover some or all of our investment.  In addition, there may be significant delays and costs associated with the process of foreclosing on collateral securing or supporting these investments.  The value of the assets securing or supporting our investments
 could deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, including acts or omissions by owners, changes in business, economic or market conditions, or foreclosure.  Such deteriorations in value may result in the recognition of impairment losses and/or valuation allowances on our statements of income.  As of December 31, 2010, our investments in mezzanine debt securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $202,412,000, net of a $73,216,000 valuation allowance.  



 

 

16





 

  





 

 

We evaluate the collectability of both interest and principal of each of our loans whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such amounts may not be recoverable.  A loan is impaired when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the estimated fair value of the loan or, as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.  There can be no assurance that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we will actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity.  If we
 collect less than our estimates, we will record impairment losses which could be material.

 

We invest in marketable equity securities of companies that have significant real estate assets.  The value of these investments may decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions.  

We invest in marketable equity securities of publicly-traded real estate companies or companies that have significant real estate assets, such as J.C. Penney.  As of December 31, 2010, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $766,116,000.  Significant declines in the value of these investments due to operating performance or economic or market conditions may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material.  

 

 

Our Organizational and Financial Structure Gives Rise to Operational and Financial Risks.

We May Not Be Able to Obtain Capital to Make Investments.

We depend primarily on external financing to fund the growth of our business. This is because one of the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for a REIT is that it distributes 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. There is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level tax in lieu thereof. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on conditions in the capital markets generally. Although we believe that we will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on acceptable terms.  For information about our available sources of funds, see “ManagementR
17;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

Vornado Realty Trust (“Vornado”) depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. The creditors and preferred security holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to Vornado.

Substantially all of Vornado’s assets are held through its Operating Partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. The Operating Partnership’s cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of Vornado’s cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the Operating Partnership. The creditors of each of Vornado’s direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. Thus, the Operating Partnership’s ability to make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries’ ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make d
istributions to the Operating Partnership. Likewise, Vornado’s ability to pay dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the Operating Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to Vornado.

 

Furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the Operating Partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of Class A units of the Operating Partnership, including Vornado. Thus, Vornado’s ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the Operating Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its Class A units, including Vornado.  As of December 31, 2010, there were seven series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership not held by Vornado with a total liquidation value of $316,165,000.

 

In addition, Vornado’s participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied.

 



 

 

17





 

  





 

  

We have outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms.

As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $13.8 billion of total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities, and excluding $37 billion for our pro rata share of LNR’s liabilities related to its consolidated CMBS and CDO trusts, which are non-recourse to LNR and its equity holders, including us.  Our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value was approximately 44%. When we say “enterprise value” in the preceding sentence, we mean market equity value of our common and preferred shares plus total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of partially owned entities, and excluding LNR’s liabilities related to its consolidated CMBS and CDO trusts.  In the future, we may incur additional debt to fin
ance acquisitions or property developments and thus increase our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value. If our level of indebtedness increases, there may be an increased risk of a credit rating downgrade or a default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in a rising interest rate environment, the cost of existing variable rate debt and any new debt or other market rate security or instrument may increase.  Furthermore, we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.

 

Covenants in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions and development activities.

The mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance coverage. Our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and other loans that we may obtain in the future contain, or may contain, customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. In addition
, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on unattractive terms.

 

We rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our unsecured credit facilities, issuances of unsecured debt securities and debt secured by individual properties, to finance acquisitions and development activities and for working capital. If we are unable to obtain debt financing from these or other sources, or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. If we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders can declare a default and, if the debt is secured, can take possession of the property securing the defaulted loan. 

 

Vornado may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate rates.

Although we believe that we will remain organized and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may fail to remain qualified in this way. Qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. Our qualification as a REIT also depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws with respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of qualifying as a REIT.

 

If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and do not qualify under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. The federal income tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. If we had to pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory
 provisions. Although we currently intend to operate in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the REIT election or fail to qualify as a REIT.



 

 

18





 

  





 

 

We face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax liability.

From time to time changes in state and local tax laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability. The shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. These increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of dividends.

 

Loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares.

We are dependent on the efforts of Steven Roth, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Vornado, and Michael D. Fascitelli, the President and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado. While we believe that we could find replacements for these and other key personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common shares.

 

 

Vornado’s charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us.

Our Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust sets limits on the ownership of our shares.

Generally, for Vornado to maintain its qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of Vornado may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of Vornado’s taxable year. The Internal Revenue Code defines “individuals” for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some types of entities. Under Vornado’s Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before Vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by Vornado’s
 Board of Trustees. These restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. We refer to Vornado’s Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as amended, as the “declaration of trust.”

 

Vornado has a classified Board of Trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions.

 

Vornado’s Board of Trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. Trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. Staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of Vornado, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders.

 

We may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. 

 

Vornado’s declaration of trust authorizes the Board of Trustees to:

·      cause Vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares;

·      classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares;

·      set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that Vornado issues; and

·      increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that Vornado may issue.

 

The Board of Trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders, although the Board of Trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. Vornado’s declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders.



 

 

19





 

  





 

The Maryland General Corporation Law contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. 

 

Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended, which we refer to as the “MGCL,” as applicable to REITs, certain “business combinations,” including certain mergers, consolidations, share exchanges and asset transfers and certain issuances and reclassifications of equity securities, between a Maryland REIT and any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust’s shares or an affiliate or an associate, as defined in the MGCL, of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust, which we refer to as an “interested shareholder,” or an affiliate of the interested shareholder, are prohibited fo
r five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. After that five-year period, any business combination of these kinds must be recommended by the board of trustees of the trust and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (a) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust and (b) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom, or with whose affiliate, the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder.  These supermajority voting requirements do not apply if the trust’s common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the MGCL, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common s
hares. 

 

The provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the board of trustees of the applicable trust before the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and a person is not an interested shareholder if the board of trustees approved in advance the transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. 

 

In approving a transaction, the Board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the Board.  Vornado’s Board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between Vornado and any trustee or officer of Vornado or its affiliates.  As a result, any trustee or officer of Vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with Vornado that may not be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders. With respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. Th
e business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of Vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer.

 

We may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders.

Our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our Board of Trustees. Accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies.

 

Our Ownership Structure and Related-Party Transactions May Give Rise to Conflicts of Interest.

Steven Roth and Interstate Properties may exercise substantial influence over us. They and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us.

As of December 31, 2010, Interstate Properties, a New Jersey general partnership, and its partners owned approximately 7.0% of the common shares of Vornado and approximately 27.2% of the common stock of Alexander’s, which is described below.  Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the three partners of Interstate Properties. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board of Vornado, the managing general partner of Interstate Properties and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Alexander’s. Messrs. Wight and Mandelbaum are trustees of Vornado and also directors of Alexander’s. 

 

Because of these overlapping interests, Mr. Roth and Interstate Properties and its partners may have substantial influence over Vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to Vornado's shareholders for approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate Properties and our other equity or debt holders. In addition, Mr. Roth, Interstate Properties and its partners, and Alexander’s currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of pote
ntial business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities.



 

 

20





 

  





 

 

We currently manage and lease the real estate assets of Interstate Properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent. The management agreement has a one-year term and is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on 60 days’ notice at the end of the term.  Because of the relationship among Vornado, Interstate Properties and Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight, as described above, the terms of the management agreement and any future agreements between us and Interstate Properties may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.

 

There may be conflicts of interest between Alexander’s and us.

As of December 31, 2010, we owned 32.4% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander’s. Alexander’s is a REIT engaged in leasing, managing, developing and redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on the locations where its department stores operated before they ceased operations in 1992. Alexander’s has seven properties, which are located in the greater New York metropolitan area.  In addition to the 2.3% that they indirectly own through Vornado, Interstate Properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 27.2% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander’s as of December 31, 2010. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board of Vornado, the managing general partner of Interstate, and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Alexander’s.  Messrs. Wight and Mandelbaum are 
trustees of Vornado and also directors of Alexander’s and general partners of Interstate.  Michael D. Fascitelli is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado and the President of Alexander’s and Dr. Richard West is a trustee of Vornado and a director of Alexander’s.  In addition, Joseph Macnow, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, holds the same position with Alexander’s.  Alexander’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “ALX.”

 

We manage, develop and lease Alexander’s properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from Alexander’s. These agreements have a one-year term expiring in March of each year and are all automatically renewable. Because Vornado and Alexander’s share common senior management and because certain of the trustees of Vornado constitute a majority of the directors of Alexander’s, the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and Alexander’s may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third party.

 

For a description of Interstate Properties’ ownership of Vornado and Alexander’s, see “Steven Roth and Interstate Properties may exercise substantial influence over us. They and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us” above.

 



 

 

21





 
  


 
 
The Number of Shares of Vornado Realty Trust and the
Market for Those Shares Give Rise to Various Risks.
 
The trading price of our common shares has been
volatile and may fluctuate.  
 
The trading price of our common shares has been
volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of
factors, many of which are outside our control.  In addition, the stock
market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that
affect the market prices of the shares of many companies.  These broad
market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the
market price of our common shares.  Among the factors that could affect the
price of our common shares are: 
 
·        
our
financial condition and performance;
·        
the
financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies
or defaults;
·        
the
reputation of REITs and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness
of REIT equity securities in comparison to other equity securities,
including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income
securities;
·        
uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit
markets;
·        
changes in revenue or earnings estimates or
publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or
actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of
other real estate investment trusts;
·        
failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings
estimates;
·        
speculation in the press or investment community;

·        
strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as
acquisitions or restructurings; 
·        
the
extent of institutional interest in us;
·        
the
extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors;

·        
fluctuations in the stock price and operating
results of our competitors; 
·        
general financial and economic market conditions
and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for real
estate investment trusts and other real estate related companies; 
·        
domestic and international economic factors
unrelated to our performance; and 
·        
all
other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this document.  
 
A significant
decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for
shareholders.
 
Vornado has many
shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its
shares.
The interests of our current shareholders could be
diluted if we issue additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2010, we
had authorized but unissued, 66,338,125 common shares of beneficial interest,
$.04 par value and 77,659,991 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par
value; of which 39,203,325 common shares are reserved for issuance upon
redemption of Class A Operating Partnership units, convertible securities and
employee stock options and 7,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance
upon redemption of preferred Operating Partnership units.  Any shares not
reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in
connection with acquisitions.  In addition, common and preferred shares
reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under
the Securities Act or under Rule 144 under the Securities Act or other
available exemptions from registration.  We cannot predict the effect that
future sales of our common and preferred shares or Operating Partnership Class A
and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding
shares.
 
Increased market
interest rates may hurt the value of our common and preferred
shares.
We believe that investors consider the distribution
rate on REIT shares, expressed as a percentage of the price of the shares,
relative to market interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to
buy or sell the shares. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers
of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates
would likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease funds available for
distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of
our common and preferred shares to decline.

 
 
22


 
  





 

Item 1b