Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the date of any document incorporated by reference. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

 



 

3





 

  





 

PART I

 

ITEM 1.        BUSINESS

Vornado Realty Trust (“Vornado”) is a fully‑integrated real estate investment trust (“REIT”) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the “Operating Partnership”).  Accordingly, Vornado’s cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the Operating Partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors.  Vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 93.5% of the common limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership at December 31, 2011.  All references to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” and “Vornado” refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership. 

                 

As of December 31, 2011, we own all or portions of:

 

Office Properties:

·         In Midtown Manhattan – 30 properties aggregating 20.8 million square feet;

 

·         In the Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area – 77 properties aggregating 20.5 million square feet, including 63 office properties aggregating 17.5 million square feet and seven residential properties containing 2,424 units;

 

·         In San Francisco’s financial district – a 70% controlling interest in 555 California Street, a three-building office complex aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the Bank of America Center;

 

Retail Properties:

·         In Manhattan – 2.2 million square feet in 46 properties, of which 1.0 million square feet in 21 properties is in our Retail Properties segment and 1.2 million square feet in 25 properties is in our New York Office Properties segment;

 

·         134 strip shopping centers, regional malls, and single tenant retail assets aggregating 24.2 million square feet, primarily in the northeast states, California and Puerto Rico;

 

Merchandise Mart Properties:

·         5.7 million square feet of showroom and office space, including the 3.5 million square foot Merchandise Mart in Chicago;

 

Other Real Estate and Related Investments:

·         A 32.4% interest in Alexander’s, Inc. (NYSE: ALX), which owns seven properties in the greater New York metropolitan area, including 731 Lexington Avenue, the 1.3 million square foot Bloomberg headquarters building;

 

·         A 25.0% interest in Vornado Capital Partners, our $800 million real estate fund.  We are the general partner and investment manager of the fund;

 

·         The 1,700 room Hotel Pennsylvania in Midtown Manhattan;

 

·         A 32.7% interest in Toys “R” Us, Inc.;

 

·         An 11.0% interest in J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (NYSE: JCP); and

 

·         Other real estate and related investments, marketable securities and mezzanine loans on real estate, including a 26.2% equity interest in LNR Property Corporation, an industry leading mortgage servicer and special servicer. 



 

4





 
  


 
 
Objectives and Strategy
Our business objective is to maximize shareholder value.
We intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment
philosophy and executing our operating strategies through:
 
·      Maintaining a superior team of operating and investment
professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit;
·      Investing in properties in select markets, such as
New York City and Washington, DC, where we believe there is a high
likelihood of capital appreciation;
·      Acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement
cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents;
·      Investing in retail properties in select under-stored
locations such as the New York City metropolitan area;
·      Developing and redeveloping our existing properties to
increase returns and maximize value; and
·        
Investing in operating companies that have a significant
real estate component.
 
We expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and
investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales
and by accessing the public and private capital markets.  We may also offer
Vornado common or preferred shares or Operating Partnership units in exchange
for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the
future.
 
 
VorNADO CAPITAL PARTNERS REAL ESTATE FUND (The
“FUND”)
 
In February 2011, the
Fund’s subscription period closed with an aggregate of $800,000,000 of capital
commitments, of which we committed $200,000,000.  We are the general
partner and investment manager of the Fund, which has an eight-year term and a
three-year investment period.  During the investment period, which
concludes in July 2013, the Fund is our exclusive investment vehicle for all
investments that fit within its investment parameters, including debt, equity
and other interests in real estate, and excluding (i) investments in vacant land
and ground-up development; (ii) investments acquired by merger or primarily for
our securities or properties; (iii) properties which can be combined with or
relate to our existing properties; (iv) securities of commercial mortgage loan
servicers and investments derived from any such investments; (v) non-controlling
interests in equity and debt securities; and (vi) investments located outside of
North America.   The Fund is accounted for under the AICPA Investment
Company Guide and its investments are reported on its balance sheet at fair
value, with changes in value each period recognized in earnings.  We
consolidate the accounts of the Fund into our consolidated financial statements,
retaining the fair value basis of accounting.  
 
During 2011, the Fund
made three investments (described below) aggregating $248,500,000 and exited two
investments.  As of December 31, 2011, the Fund has five investments with
an aggregate fair value of approximately $346,650,000, or $11,995,000 in excess
of cost, and has remaining unfunded commitments of $416,600,000, of which our
share is $104,150,000. 
 
         
One
Park Avenue
 
On March 1, 2011, the
Fund as a co-investor (64.7% interest), together with Vornado (30.3% interest),
acquired a 95% interest in One Park Avenue, a 932,000 square foot office
building located between 32nd and 33rd Streets in New
York, for $374,000,000.  The purchase price consisted of $137,000,000 in
cash and 95% of a $250,000,000 five-year mortgage that bears interest at 5.0%.

 
Crowne Plaza Times
Square
 
On December 16, 2011,
the Fund formed a joint venture with the owner of the property to recapitalize
the Crowne Plaza Hotel in Times Square.  The property is located at 48th
Street and Broadway in Times Square and is comprised of a 795-key hotel, 14,000
square feet of prime retail space, 212,000 square feet of office space, nine
large signage offerings, a 159-space parking garage and a health club.  The
joint venture plans to reconfigure and reposition the retail and office space as
well as add additional signage.  Vornado will manage and lease the
commercial components of the property and the joint venture partner will asset
manage the hotel.  This transaction was initiated by us in May 2011, when
the Fund acquired a $34,000,000 mezzanine position in the junior most tranche of
the property’s mezzanine debt.  In December 2011, the Fund contributed
$31,000,000 and its partner contributed $22,000,000 of new capital to pay down
third party debt and for future capital expenditures.  The new capital was
contributed in the form of debt that is convertible into preferred equity that
receives a priority return and then will receive a profit participation. 
The Fund has an economic interest of approximately 38% in the property. 
The Fund’s investment is subordinate to the property’s $259,000,000 of senior
debt which matures in December 2013, with a one-year extension
option.  

 
5


   


 
 
 
VorNADO CAPITAL PARTNERS REAL ESTATE FUND (The “FUND”) -
CONTINUED
 
11 East
68th Street
 
On December 29, 2011, the Fund committed to
acquire the retail portion of 11 East 68th Street, an 11-story
residential and retail property located on Madison Avenue and 68th
Street, for $50,500,000.  The retail portion of the property consists of
two retail units aggregating 5,000 square feet.  The Fund provided
$21,200,000 at closing and will provide the remaining $29,300,000 over the next
two years.  In addition, the Fund has also provided a $21,000,000 mezzanine
loan on the residential portion of the property, which bears paid-in-kind
interest at 15%, matures in three years and has a one-year extension
option.  
 
ACQUISITIONS and
investments
 
1399 New York Avenue (the “Executive
Tower”)
 
On December 23, 2011, we acquired the 97.5% interest that
we did not already own in the Executive Tower, an 11-story, 128,000 square foot
Class A office building located in the Washington, CBD East End submarket close
to the White House, for $104,000,000 in cash.
 
666 Fifth Avenue Office
 
On December 16, 2011, we formed a joint venture with an
affiliate of the Kushner Companies to recapitalize the office portion of 666
Fifth Avenue, a 39-story, 1.4 million square foot Class A office building in
Manhattan, located on the full block front of Fifth Avenue between 52nd and 53rd
Street.  We acquired a 49.5% interest in the property from the Kushner
Companies, the current owner.  In connection therewith, the existing
$1,215,000,000 mortgage loan was modified by LNR, the special servicer, into a
$1,100,000,000 A-Note and a $115,000,000 B-Note and extended to February 2019;
and a portion of the current pay interest was deferred to the B-Note.  We
and the Kushner Companies have committed to lend the joint venture an aggregate
of $110,000,000 (of which our share is $80,000,000) for tenant improvements and
working capital for the property, which is senior to the $115,000,000 B-Note. In
addition, we have provided the A-Note holders a limited recourse and cooperation
guarantee of up to $75,000,000 if an event of default occurs and is ongoing.

 
Independence Plaza
 
On June 17, 2011, a joint venture in which we are a 51%
partner invested $55,000,000 in cash (of which we contributed $35,000,000) to
acquire a face amount of $150,000,000 of mezzanine loans and a $35,000,000
participation in a senior loan on Independence Plaza, a residential complex
comprised of three 39-story buildings in the Tribeca submarket of
Manhattan.
 
280 Park Avenue Joint Venture
 
On March 16, 2011, we formed a 50/50 joint venture with
SL Green Realty Corp to own the mezzanine debt of 280 Park Avenue, a 1.2 million
square foot office building located between 48th and 49th Streets in Manhattan
(the “Property”).  We contributed our mezzanine loan with a face amount of
$73,750,000 and they contributed their mezzanine loans with a face amount of
$326,250,000 to the joint venture.  We equalized our interest in the joint
venture by paying our partner $111,250,000 in cash and assuming $15,000,000 of
their debt.  On May 17, 2011, as part of the recapitalization of the
Property, the joint venture contributed its debt position for 99% of the common
equity of a new joint venture which owns the Property.  The new joint
venture’s investment is subordinate to $710,000,000 of third party debt. 
The new joint venture expects to spend $150,000,000 for re-tenanting and
repositioning the Property.

 
6


   


 
 
Dispositions
 
On January 6, 2012, we completed the sale of 350 West
Mart Center, a 1.2 million square foot office building located in Chicago,
Illinois, for $228,000,000 in cash, which resulted in a net gain of $54,200,000
that will be recognized in the first quarter of 2012.
 
On March 31, 2011, the receiver completed the disposition
of the High Point Complex in North Carolina.  In connection therewith, the
property and related debt were removed from our consolidated balance sheet and
we recognized a net gain of $83,907,000 on the extinguishment of
debt.
 
On January 12, 2011, we sold 1140 Connecticut Avenue and
1227 25th Street in Washington, DC, for $127,000,000 in cash, which
resulted in a net gain of $45,862,000.
 
In 2011, we sold three retail properties in separate
transactions for an aggregate of $40,990,000 in cash, which resulted in net
gains of $5,761,000.
 
 
Financing Activities
Senior Unsecured Debt
 
On November 30, 2011, we completed a public offering of
$400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.0%, ten-year senior unsecured notes
and retained net proceeds of approximately $395,584,000.  The notes were
sold at 99.546% of their face amount to yield 5.057%.
 
In 2011, we renewed both of our unsecured revolving
credit facilities aggregating $2,500,000,000.  The first facility, which
was renewed in June 2011, bears interest on drawn amounts at LIBOR plus 1.35%
and has a 0.30% facility fee (drawn or undrawn).  The second facility,
which was renewed in November 2011, bears interest on drawn amounts at LIBOR
plus 1.25% and has a 0.25% facility fee (drawn or undrawn).  The LIBOR
spread and facility fee on both facilities are based on our credit
ratings.  Both facilities mature in four years and have one-year extension
options.  As of December 31, 2011, an aggregate of $138,000,000 was
outstanding under these facilities.    
 
Secured Debt
 
On January 9, 2012, we completed a $300,000,000
refinancing of 350 Park Avenue, a 557,000 square foot Manhattan office building.
The five-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 3.75% and amortizes based on a
30-year schedule beginning in the third year. The proceeds of the new loan and
$132,000,000 of existing cash were used to repay the existing loan and closing
costs. 
 
On December 28, 2011, we completed a $330,000,000
refinancing of Eleven Penn Plaza, a 1.1 million square foot Manhattan office
building. The seven-year loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.35% and amortizes
based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the fourth year. We retained net
proceeds of approximately $126,000,000 after repaying the existing loan and
closing
costs.              

 
On September 1, 2011, we completed a $600,000,000
refinancing of 555 California Street, a three-building office complex
aggregating 1.8 million square feet in San Francisco’s financial district, known
as the Bank of America Center, in which we own a 70% controlling interest. 
The 10-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 5.10% and amortizes based on a
30-year schedule beginning in the fourth year.  The proceeds of the new
loan and $45,000,000 of existing cash were used to repay the existing loan and
closing costs.
 
On May 11, 2011, we repaid the outstanding balance of the
construction loan on West End 25, and closed on a $101,671,000 mortgage at a
fixed rate of 4.88%.  The loan has a 10-year term and amortizes based on a
30-year schedule beginning in the sixth year. 
 
On
February 11, 2011, we completed a $425,000,000 refinancing of Two Penn Plaza, a
1.6 million square foot Manhattan office building.  The seven-year loan
bears interest at LIBOR plus 2.00%, which was swapped for the term of the loan
to a fixed rate of 5.13%.  The loan amortizes based on a 30-year schedule
beginning in the fourth year.  We retained net proceeds of approximately
$139,000,000 after repaying the existing loan and closing costs. 
 
On
February 10, 2011, we completed a $150,000,000 financing of 2121 Crystal Drive,
a 506,000 square foot office building located in Crystal City, Arlington,
Virginia.  The 12-year fixed rate loan bears interest at 5.51% and
amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the third year.  This
property was previously unencumbered.

 
7


   


 
 
 
Financing Activities - CONTINUED
Secured Debt - continued
 
 
On January 18, 2011, we repaid the outstanding balance of
the construction loan on 220 20th Street and closed on a $76,100,000
mortgage at a fixed rate of 4.61%.  The loan has a seven-year term and
amortizes based on a 30-year schedule.
 
On January 10, 2011, we completed a $75,000,000 financing
of North Bergen (Tonnelle Avenue), a 410,000 square foot strip shopping
center.  The seven-year fixed rate loan bears interest rate at 4.59% and
amortizes based on a 25-year schedule beginning in the sixth year. This property
was previously unencumbered.
 
On
January 6, 2011, we completed a $60,000,000 financing of land under a portion of
the Borgata Hotel and Casino complex. The 10-year fixed rate loan bears interest
at 5.14% and amortizes based on a 30-year schedule beginning in the third
year.
 
Preferred Equity
 
On April 20, 2011, we sold 7,000,000 6.875% Series J
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares at a price of $25.00 per share, in an
underwritten public offering pursuant to an effective registration
statement.  On April 21, 2011, the underwriters exercised their option to
purchase an additional 1,050,000 shares to cover over-allotments.  On May
5, 2011 and August 5, 2011 we sold an additional 800,000 and 1,000,000 shares,
respectively, at a price of $25.00 per share.  We retained aggregate net
proceeds of $238,842,000, after underwriters’ discounts and issuance costs and
contributed the net proceeds to the Operating Partnership in exchange for
9,850,000 Series J Preferred Units (with economic terms that mirror those of the
Series J Preferred Shares).  

 
8


 
  





 

 

Development and Redevelopment Projects

 

 

We are evaluating various development and redevelopment opportunities which we estimate could require as much as $1.5 billion to be expended over the next five years. These opportunities include:

 

·         demolition of a 372,000 square foot office building in Crystal City, to construct a 700,000 square foot office building;

·         renovation of the Hotel Pennsylvania;

·         construction of a luxury residential condominium at 220 Central Park South, adjacent to Central Park;

·         re-tenanting and repositioning of 330 West 34th Street;

·         re-tenanting and repositioning of 280 Park Avenue;

·         complete renovation of the 1.4 million square foot Springfield Mall; and

·         re-tenanting and repositioning a number of our strip shopping centers.

 

We are also evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities at certain of our properties in Manhattan, Rosslyn, Pentagon City and Crystal City, for which plans, budgeted costs and financings have yet to be determined.

 

 

Cleveland Medical Mart Development Project

 

In 2010, two of our wholly owned subsidiaries entered into agreements with Cuyahoga County, Ohio (the “County”) to develop and operate the Cleveland Medical Mart and Convention Center (the “Facility”), a 1,000,000 square foot showroom, trade show and conference center in Cleveland’s central business district.  The County is funding the development of the Facility, using the proceeds it received from the issuance of general obligation bonds and other sources, up to the development budget of $465,000,000 and maintain effective control of the property.  During the 17-year development and operating period, our subsidiaries will receive net settled payments of approximately $10,000,000 per year, which are net of its $36,000,000 annual obligation to the County.  Our subsidiaries’ obligation has been pledged by the County to the bondholders, but is payable by our subsidiaries only to the extent that they first receive at least an equal payment from the County.  Construction of the Facility is expected to be completed in 2013.  As of December 31, 2011, $145,824,000 of the $465,000,000 development budget was expended. 

 

 

There can be no assurance that any of our development projects will commence, or if commenced, be completed on schedule or within budget.



 

9





 
  


 
 
SEGMENT
DATA
 
We operate in the following business segments: New York
Office Properties, Washington, DC Office Properties, Retail Properties,
Merchandise Mart Properties and Toys “R” Us (“Toys”).  Financial
information related to these business segments for the years ended December 31,
2011, 2010 and 2009 is set forth in Note 22 – Segment Information to our
consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
The Merchandise Mart Properties segment has trade show operations in Canada and
Switzerland. The Toys segment has 770 locations internationally. 
 
 
SEASONALITY
 
Our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality
during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from
operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the
previous quarter. The business of Toys is highly seasonal. Historically, Toys’
fourth quarter net income, which we record on a one-quarter lag basis in our
first quarter, accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. The New
York and Washington, DC Office Properties and Merchandise Mart Properties
segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and
third quarters of the year. The Merchandise Mart Properties segment has also
experienced higher earnings in the second and fourth quarters of the year due to
major trade shows occurring in those quarters. The Retail Properties segment
revenue in the fourth quarter is typically higher due to the recognition of
percentage and specialty rental income. 
 
 
tenants ACCOUNTING FOR over 10% of
revenues
 
None of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total
revenues in any of the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009.
 
 
Certain Activities
 
We do not base our acquisitions and investments on
specific allocations by type of property. We have historically held our
properties for long‑term investment; however, it is possible that properties in
the portfolio may be sold as circumstances warrant. Further, we have not adopted
a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested
in a specific property or property type. While we may seek the vote of our
shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally
our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our Board
of Trustees without the vote of shareholders.
 
 
Employees 
 
As of December 31, 2011, we have approximately 4,823
employees, of which 322 are corporate staff. The New York Office Properties
segment has 137 employees and an additional 2,816 employees of Building
Maintenance Services LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning,
security and engineering services primarily to our New York Office and
Washington, DC Office properties. The Washington, DC Office Properties, Retail
Properties and Merchandise Mart Properties segments have 457, 168 and 409
employees, respectively, and the Hotel Pennsylvania has 514 employees. The
foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities, including Toys
or Alexander’s, of which we own 32.7% and 32.4%, respectively.
 
 
principal executive offices
 
Our principal executive offices are located at 888
Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019; telephone (212) 894‑7000. 

 
 
MATERIALS AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE 
 
Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10‑K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10‑Q, Current Reports on Form 8‑K, and amendments to
those reports, as well as Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers,
trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished
to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on our website are
copies of our Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate
Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics
and Corporate Governance Guidelines. In the event of any changes to these
charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available
on our website.  Copies of these documents are also available directly from
us free of charge.  Our website also includes other financial information,
including certain non-GAAP financial measures, none of which is a part of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Copies of our filings under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon
request.

 
10


   


 
ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS
Material factors that may adversely affect our business,
operations and financial condition are summarized below.  The risks and
uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we
currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. 
See “Forward-Looking Statements” contained herein on page 3.
 
Real Estate Investments’ Value and Income
Fluctuate Due to Various Factors.
The value of real estate fluctuates depending on
conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions
may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. 
 
The factors that affect the value of our real estate
investments include, among other things:
·     
national,
regional and local economic conditions;
·     
competition from other available space;
·     
local
conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real
estate in the area;
·     
how well
we manage our properties;
·        
the
development and/or redevelopment of our properties;
·     
changes
in market rental rates; 
·     
the
timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;
·     
whether
we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through
to tenants;
·     
changes
in real estate taxes and other expenses;   
·     
whether
tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property
attractive;
·     
the
financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies
or defaults;
·     
availability of financing on acceptable terms or at
all;
·     
fluctuations in interest rates;
·     
our
ability to obtain adequate insurance; 
·     
changes
in zoning laws and taxation;
·     
government regulation; 
·     
consequences of any armed conflict involving, or
terrorist attack against, the United States;
·     
potential
liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; 
·        
natural
disasters;
·     
general
competitive factors; and
·        
climate
changes.
 
The rents we receive and the occupancy levels at our
properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors.
If rental revenues and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to
have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to
shareholders. In addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage
payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when
the related rents decline. 
 
Capital markets and
economic conditions can materially affect our financial condition and results of
operations and the value of our debt and equity securities.
There are many factors that can affect the value of our
debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the
economy, which over the past few years have negatively affected substantially
all businesses, including ours.  Demand for office and retail space may
continue to decline nationwide as it did in 2008 and 2009, due to bankruptcies,
downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting.  The cost and availability of credit
may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads,
which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the
liquidity and financial condition of our tenants.  Our inability or the
inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the
capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial
condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity
securities.
 
Real estate is a
competitive business.
Our business segments – New York Office Properties,
Washington, DC Office Properties, Retail Properties, Merchandise Mart Properties
and Toys – operate in a highly competitive environment. We have a large
concentration of properties in the New York City metropolitan area and in the
Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area. We compete with a large number of
property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower
returns on their investments than we are. Principal factors of competition
include rents charged, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property
and the breadth and quality of services provided. Our success depends upon,
among other factors, trends of the national, regional and local economies,
financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and
customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs,
taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends.

 
11


   


 
 
We depend on leasing
space to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from
tenants who may not be able to pay.
Our financial results depend significantly on leasing
space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In addition,
because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property, our
income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for distribution
to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our tenants cannot pay
their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy levels on favorable
terms. If a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be able to enforce our
rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. 
During periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in the number of
tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy rates.
 
Bankruptcy or
insolvency of tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available
cash.
From time to time, some of our tenants have declared
bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become insolvent in the
future. In the case of our shopping centers, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a
major tenant could cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational
difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the property. As a result, the
bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue,
net income and funds available for the payment of indebtedness or for
distribution to shareholders.  
 
We may incur costs to
comply with environmental laws.
Our operations and properties are subject to various
federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection of the
environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic substances and
health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or previous owner or
operator of real estate may be required to investigate and clean up hazardous or
toxic substances released at a property. The owner or operator may also be held
liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or
personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by those
parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose liability without
regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release of the substances or
caused the release. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate
contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow
using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and regulations govern indoor
and outdoor air quality including those that can require the abatement or
removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event of damage, demolition,
renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos
fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead paint and certain
electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and underground
storage tanks are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject
to risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants
such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can be
alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in
susceptible individuals. We could incur fines for environmental compliance and
be held liable for the costs of remedial action with respect to the foregoing
regulated substances or tanks or related claims arising out of environmental
contamination or human exposure to contamination at or from our
properties.
 
Each of our properties has been subject to varying
degrees of environmental assessment. The environmental assessments did not, as
of this date, reveal any environmental condition material to our business.
However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of
contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, discovery
of additional sites, human exposure to the contamination or changes in clean-up
or compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us.
 
Inflation or deflation
may adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.
 
Although neither inflation nor deflation has materially
impacted our operations in the recent past, increased inflation could have a
pronounced negative impact on our mortgages and interest rates and general and
administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our
rents.  Inflation could also have an adverse effect on consumer spending
which could impact our tenants’ sales and, in turn, our percentage rents, where
applicable.  Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents
and other sources of income.  In addition, we own residential properties
which are leased to tenants with one-year lease terms.  Because these are
short-term leases, declines in market rents will impact our residential
properties faster than if the leases were for longer terms.
 

 
12


   


 
Some of our potential
losses may not be covered by insurance.
We maintain general
liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and all risk
property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per occurrence,
including coverage for terrorist acts, with sub-limits for certain perils such
as floods.  Our California properties have earthquake insurance with
coverage of $180,000,000 per occurrence, subject to a deductible in the amount
of 5% of the value of the affected property, up to a $180,000,000 annual
aggregate.
 
Penn Plaza Insurance
Company, LLC (“PPIC”), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a
re-insurer with respect to all risk property and rental value insurance and a
portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for
coverage for acts of terrorism, including nuclear, biological, chemical and
radiological (“NBCR”) acts, as defined by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program
Reauthorization Act. Coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding NBCR acts) is
fully reinsured by third party insurance companies and the Federal government
with no exposure to PPIC.  Coverage for NBCR losses is up to $2.0 billion
per occurrence, for which PPIC is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 and
15% of the balance of a covered loss and the Federal government is responsible
for the remaining 85% of a covered loss.  We are ultimately responsible for
any loss borne by PPIC.
 
We continue to monitor
the state of the insurance market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts
of terrorism.  However, we cannot anticipate what coverage will be
available on commercially reasonable terms in future policy years.
 
Our debt instruments,
consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are non-recourse to
us, senior unsecured notes, exchangeable senior debentures, convertible senior
debentures and revolving credit agreements contain customary covenants requiring
us to maintain insurance. Although we believe that we have adequate insurance
coverage for purposes of these agreements, we may not be able to obtain an
equivalent amount of coverage at reasonable costs in the future. Further, if
lenders insist on greater coverage than we are able to obtain it could adversely
affect our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio.

 
Because we operate a
hotel, we face the risks associated with the hospitality
industry.
We own and operate the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York
City. The following factors, among others, are common to the hotel industry and
may reduce the revenues generated by the hotel, which would reduce cash
available for distribution to our shareholders:
 
·     
our hotel competes for guests with other hotels, a number
of which have greater marketing and financial resources;
·     
if there is an increase in operating costs resulting from
inflation and other factors, we may not be able to offset such increase by
increasing room rates;
·     
our hotel is subject to the fluctuating and seasonal
demands of business travelers and tourism;
·     
our hotel is subject to general and local economic and
social conditions that may affect demand for travel in general, including war
and terrorism; and
·      physical condition, which may require substantial
additional capital.
 
Because of the
ownership structure of the Hotel Pennsylvania, we face potential adverse effects
from changes to the applicable tax laws.
Under the Internal Revenue Code, REITs like us are not
allowed to operate hotels directly or indirectly. Accordingly, we lease the
Hotel Pennsylvania to our taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”). While the TRS
structure allows the economic benefits of ownership to flow to us, the TRS is
subject to tax on its income from the operations of the hotel at the federal and
state level. In addition, the TRS is subject to detailed tax regulations that
affect how it may be capitalized and operated. If the tax laws applicable to a
TRS are modified, we may be forced to modify the structure for owning the hotel,
and such changes may adversely affect the cash flows from the hotel. In
addition, the Internal Revenue Service, the United States Treasury Department
and Congress frequently review federal income tax legislation, and we cannot
predict whether, when or to what extent new federal tax laws, regulations,
interpretations or rulings will be adopted. Any such actions may prospectively
or retroactively modify the tax treatment of the TRS and, therefore, may
adversely affect our after-tax returns from the hotel.
 

 
13


   


 
 
Compliance or failure
to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety regulations
and requirements could result in substantial costs.  
The Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) generally
requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet certain federal
requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Noncompliance could
result in the imposition of fines by the federal government or the award of
damages to private litigants. From time to time persons have asserted claims
against us with respect to some of our properties under the ADA, but to date
such claims have not resulted in any material expense or liability. If, under
the ADA, we are required to make substantial alterations and capital
expenditures in one or more of our properties, including the removal of access
barriers, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations, as well as the amount of cash available for distribution to
shareholders.
 
Our properties are subject to various federal, state and
local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety
requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could incur fines
or private damage awards. We do not know whether existing requirements will
change or whether compliance with future requirements will require significant
unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow and results of
operations.
 
We face risks associated with our tenants being
designated “Prohibited Persons” by the Office of Foreign Assets
Control.   
 
Pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and other laws, the
Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury
(“OFAC”) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who are
otherwise blocked or banned (“Prohibited Persons”) from conducting business or
engaging in transactions in the United States.  Our leases, loans and other
agreements may require us to comply with OFAC requirements.  If a tenant or
other party with whom we conduct business is placed on the OFAC list we may be
required to terminate the lease or other agreement.  Any such termination
could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial
results and cash flows.
 
Our business and operations would suffer in the event of
system failures.   
 
Despite system redundancy, the implementation of security
measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal
information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any
number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy
blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication
failures.  Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our
operations could result in a material disruption to our business.  We may
also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such
disruptions.
 
The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our
cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to
our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information,
and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively
impact our financial results.
 
A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event
that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our
information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional
attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to
systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential information.
As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our
systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Our three primary risks
that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include
operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our tenants, and
private data exposure.  We have implemented processes, procedures and
controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our
increased awareness of a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our
financial results will not be negatively impacted by such an
incident.
 

 
14


 
  





 

 

Our Investments Are Concentrated in the New York CITY METROPOLITAN AREA and Washington, DC / NORTHERN VIRGINIA Area. Circumstances Affecting These Areas Generally Could Adversely Affect Our Business.

 

A significant portion of our properties are located in the New York City / New Jersey metropolitan area and Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area and are affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas.

In 2011, approximately 74% of our EBITDA, excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the New York City / New Jersey metropolitan areas and the Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area. We may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the United States or abroad. Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the short or long term. Declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. The factors affecting economic conditions in these regions include:

 

·      financial performance and productivity of the publishing, advertising, financial, technology, retail, insurance and real estate industries;

·      space needs of, and budgetary constraints affecting, the United States Government, including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and repositioning under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 2005, as amended;

·      business layoffs or downsizing;

·      industry slowdowns;

·      relocations of businesses;

·      changing demographics;

·      increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places;

·      infrastructure quality; and

·      any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate.

 

It is impossible for us to assess the future effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the United States, or the real estate markets in these areas.  Local, national or global economic downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability.

 

Terrorist attacks, such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City and the Washington, DC area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow.

We have significant investments in large metropolitan areas, including the New York, Washington, DC, Chicago, Boston and San Francisco metropolitan areas. In the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States that may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. This, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could decline materially.

 

We May Acquire or Sell Assets or Entities or Develop Properties. Our Failure or Inability to Consummate These Transactions or Manage the Results of These Transactions Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results.

 

We have grown rapidly since 2001 through acquisitions. We may not be able to maintain this rapid growth and our failure to do so could adversely affect our stock price.

We have experienced rapid growth since 2001, increasing our total assets from approximately $6.8 billion at December 31, 2001 to approximately $20.4 billion at December 31, 2011. We may not be able to maintain a similar rate of growth in the future or manage growth effectively. Our failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as well as the amount of cash available for distributions to shareholders.



 

15





 
  


 
 
We may acquire or
develop properties or acquire other real estate related companies and this may
create risks.
We may acquire or develop properties or acquire other
real estate related companies when we believe that an acquisition or development
is consistent with our business strategy. We may not, however, succeed in
consummating desired acquisitions or in completing developments on time or
within budget. In addition, we may face competition in pursuing acquisition or
development opportunities that could increase our costs. When we do pursue a
project or acquisition, we may not succeed in leasing newly-developed or
acquired properties at rents sufficient to cover costs of acquisition or
development and operations.  Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may
prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention.
Acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have
the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated
performance. We may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that
we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already
incurred and have devoted management time to a matter not consummated.
Furthermore, acquisitions of new properties or companies will expose us to the
liabilities of those properties or companies, some of which we may not be aware
of at the time of acquisition. Development of our existing properties presents
similar risks. 
 
From time to time we
have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material
acquisitions.  The announcement of such a material acquisition may result
in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common
shares.
 
We are continuously looking at material transactions that
we believe will maximize shareholder value.  However, an announcement by us
of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant
decline in the price of our common shares and convertible and exchangeable
securities.  
 
It may be difficult to
buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our
flexibility.
Real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy
and sell quickly. Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our
portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other
conditions.
 
We may not be
permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with
those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring
additional costs.
As part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio
of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the
acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period,
unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. These agreements
could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not
pay down or refinance.
 
From time to time we
make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. Some of
these companies operate in industries that differ from our current operations,
with different risks than investing in real estate.
From time to time we make debt or equity investments in
other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole
control. These investments include but are not limited
to, Alexander’s, Inc. (“Alexander’s”), Toys “R” Us (“Toys”), Lexington
Realty Trust (“Lexington”), J.C. Penney Company, Inc. (“J.C. Penney”), LNR
Property Corporation (“LNR”) and other equity and mezzanine investments.
Although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component,
some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of
business including, without limitation, operating or managing toy stores and
department stores. Consequently, investments in these businesses, among other
risks, subjects us to the operating and financial risks of industries other than
real estate and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations
of these businesses. From time to time we may make additional investments in or
acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. Investments in
entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures,
present additional risks such as having differing objectives than our partners
or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or
competing with those persons. In addition, we rely on the internal controls and
financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain
effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us.

 
We are subject to
risks that affect the general retail environment.
A substantial portion of our properties are in the retail
shopping center real estate market and we have a significant investment in
retailers such as Toys and J.C. Penney. This means that we are subject to
factors that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of
consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and
increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, retail websites
and catalog companies. These factors could adversely affect the financial
condition of our retail tenants and the retailers in which we hold an investment
and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our shopping centers, and in
turn, adversely affect us. 
 
 
 
 

 
16


 
  





 

 

Our investment in Toys subjects us to risks that are different from our other lines of business and may result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings.

Because Toys is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by our other lines of business. The business of Toys is highly seasonal. Historically, Toys fourth quarter net income accounts for more than 80% of its fiscal year net income. In addition, our fiscal year ends on December 31 whereas, as is common for retailers, Toys’ fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31. Therefore, we record our pro rata share of Toys’ net earnings on a one-quarter lag basis. For example, our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2011 include Toys’ financial results for its first, second and third quarters ended October 29, 2011, as well as Toys’ fourth quarter results of 2010. Because of the seasonality of Toys, our reported quarterly net income shows increased volatility. We may also, in the future and from time to time, invest in other businesses that may report financial results that are more volatile than our historical financial results.  

 

We depend upon our anchor tenants to attract shoppers.

We own several regional malls and other shopping centers that are typically anchored by well-known department stores and other tenants who generate shopping traffic at the mall or shopping center. The value of our properties would be adversely affected if tenants or anchors failed to meet their contractual obligations, sought concessions in order to continue operations or ceased their operations, including as a result of bankruptcy. If the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly due to economic conditions, closing of anchors or for other reasons, tenants may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event of a default by a tenant or anchor, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord.

 

Our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results.

 

 We evaluate real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset over our anticipated holding period.  If we change our intended holding period, due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired.  Depending on the carrying value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that would adversely affect our financial results. This loss could be material to our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. 

  

We invest in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets.  These investments involve greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans.

We invest, and may in the future invest, in subordinated or mezzanine debt of certain entities that have significant real estate assets.  These investments, which are subordinate to the mortgage loans secured by the real property, are generally secured by pledges of the equity interests of the entities owning the underlying real estate.  These investments involve a greater risk of loss than investments in senior mortgage loans which are secured by real property.  If a borrower defaults on debt to us or on debt senior to us, or declares bankruptcy, we may not be able to recover some or all of our investment.  In addition, there may be significant delays and costs associated with the process of foreclosing on collateral securing or supporting these investments.  The value of the assets securing or supporting our investments could deteriorate over time due to factors beyond our control, including acts or omissions by owners, changes in business, economic or market conditions, or foreclosure.  Such deteriorations in value may result in the recognition of impairment losses and/or valuation allowances on our statements of income.  As of December 31, 2011, our investments in mezzanine debt securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $133,948,000.  

 

We evaluate the collectibility of both interest and principal of each of our loans whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such amounts may not be recoverable.  A loan is impaired when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms. When a loan is impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, or as a practical expedient, to the value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.  There can be no assurance that our estimates of collectible amounts will not change over time or that they will be representative of the amounts we will actually collect, including amounts we would collect if we chose to sell these investments before their maturity.  If we collect less than our estimates, we will record impairment losses which could be material.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 



 

17





 
  


 
 
We invest in
marketable equity securities of companies that have significant real estate
assets.  The value of these investments may decline as a result of
operating performance or economic or market conditions. 

We invest in marketable equity securities of
publicly-traded real estate companies or companies that have significant real
estate assets, such as J.C. Penney.  As of December 31, 2011, our
marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $741,321,000. 
Significant declines in the value of these investments due to operating
performance or economic or market conditions may result in the recognition of
impairment losses which could be material.  
 
 
Our Organizational and Financial
Structure Gives Rise to Operational and Financial Risks.
We May Not Be
Able to Obtain Capital to Make Investments.
We depend primarily on external financing to fund the
growth of our business. This is because one of the requirements of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for a REIT is that it distributes 90% of its
taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders. There is a
separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a corporate level
tax in lieu thereof. Our access to debt or equity financing depends on the
willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments and on
conditions in the capital markets generally. Although we believe that we will be
able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable future,
there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or available on
acceptable terms.  For information about our available sources of funds,
see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital
Resources” and the notes to the consolidated financial
statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Vornado Realty Trust
(“Vornado”) depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect
subsidiaries. The creditors and preferred security holders of these subsidiaries
are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries before the
subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to
Vornado.
Substantially all of Vornado’s assets are held through
its Operating Partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and
assets through subsidiaries. The Operating Partnership’s cash flow is dependent
on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all
of Vornado’s cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by the Operating
Partnership. The creditors of each of Vornado’s direct and indirect subsidiaries
are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s obligations to them, when due and
payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity
holders. Thus, the Operating Partnership’s ability to make distributions to
holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries’ ability first to satisfy their
obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to the Operating
Partnership. Likewise, Vornado’s ability to pay dividends to holders of common
and preferred shares depends on the Operating Partnership’s ability first to
satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to
holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to Vornado.
 
Furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the
Operating Partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before
payment of distributions to holders of Class A units of the Operating
Partnership, including Vornado. Thus, Vornado’s ability to pay cash dividends to
its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the Operating
Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make
distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its Class
A units, including Vornado.  As of December 31, 2011, there were six series
of preferred units of the Operating Partnership not held by Vornado with a total
liquidation value of $280,955,000.
 
In addition, Vornado’s participation in any distribution
of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the
liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the
creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are
satisfied.
 

 
18


   


 
  
We have outstanding
debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and refinancing may not
be available on acceptable terms.
As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $14.5
billion of total debt outstanding, including our pro rata share of debt of
partially owned entities, and excluding $33.3 billion for our pro rata share of
LNR’s liabilities related to its consolidated CMBS and CDO trusts, which are
non-recourse to LNR and its equity holders, including us.  Our ratio of
total debt to total enterprise value was approximately 47%. When we say
“enterprise value” in the preceding sentence, we mean market equity value of our
common and preferred shares plus total debt outstanding, including our pro rata
share of debt of partially owned entities, and excluding LNR’s liabilities
related to its consolidated CMBS and CDO trusts.  In the future, we may
incur additional debt to finance acquisitions or property developments and thus
increase our ratio of total debt to total enterprise value. If our level of
indebtedness increases, there may be an increased risk of a credit rating
downgrade or a default on our obligations that could adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in a rising interest
rate environment, the cost of existing variable rate debt and any new debt or
other market rate security or instrument may increase.  Furthermore, we may
not be able to refinance existing indebtedness in sufficient amounts or on
acceptable terms.
 
Covenants in our debt
instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our acquisitions
and development activities.
The mortgages on our properties contain customary
covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of the
lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance
coverage. Our unsecured credit facilities, unsecured debt securities and other
loans that we may obtain in the future contain, or may contain, customary
restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur
indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to incur debt based
upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our ratio of secured
debt to total assets, our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense, and fixed
charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of unencumbered assets
to unsecured debt. Our ability to borrow is subject to compliance with these and
other covenants. In addition, failure to comply with our covenants could cause a
default under the applicable debt instrument, and we may then be required to
repay such debt with capital from other sources. Under those circumstances,
other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only on
unattractive terms.
 
We rely on debt financing, including borrowings under our
unsecured credit facilities, issuances of unsecured debt securities and debt
secured by individual properties, to finance acquisitions and development
activities and for working capital. If we are unable to obtain debt financing
from these or other sources, or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity,
our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely
affected. If we breach covenants in our debt agreements, the lenders can declare
a default and, if the debt is secured, can take possession of the property
securing the defaulted loan. 
 
Vornado may fail to
qualify or remain qualified as a REIT and may be required to pay income taxes at
corporate rates.
Although we believe that we will remain organized and
will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax
purposes, we may fail to remain qualified in this way. Qualification as a REIT
for federal income tax purposes is governed by highly technical and complex
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which there are only limited
judicial or administrative interpretations. Our qualification as a REIT also
depends on various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our
control. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative
interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws with
respect to the requirements for qualification as a REIT or the federal income
tax consequences of qualifying as a REIT.
 
If, with respect to any taxable year, we fail to maintain
our qualification as a REIT and do not qualify under statutory relief
provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders in computing our
taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our taxable income at
regular corporate rates. The federal income tax payable would include any
applicable alternative minimum tax. If we had to pay federal income tax, the
amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our indebtedness
would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would no longer be
required to make distributions to shareholders. In addition, we would also be
disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the
year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled to relief
under the relevant statutory provisions. Although we currently intend to operate
in a manner designed to allow us to qualify as a REIT, future economic, market,
legal, tax or other considerations may cause us to revoke the REIT election or
fail to qualify as a REIT.

 
19


   


 
 
We face possible
adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our tax
liability.
From time to time changes in state and local tax laws or
regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax liability.
The shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in recent years may
lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes. If such changes
occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets or income. These
increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results
of operations and the amount of cash available for payment of
dividends.
 
Loss of our key
personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common
shares.
We are dependent on the efforts of Steven Roth, the
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Vornado, and Michael D. Fascitelli, the
President and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado. While we believe that we could
find replacements for these and other key personnel, the loss of their services
could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of our common
shares.
 
 
Vornado’s charter documents and applicable law may hinder
any attempt to acquire us.
Our Amended and
Restated Declaration of Trust sets limits on the ownership of our
shares.
Generally, for Vornado to maintain its qualification as a
REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of the
outstanding shares of beneficial interest of Vornado may be owned, directly or
indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of
Vornado’s taxable year. The Internal Revenue Code defines “individuals” for
purposes of the requirement described in the preceding sentence to include some
types of entities. Under Vornado’s Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust, as
amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares of
any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with some
exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit before
Vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by Vornado’s Board of
Trustees. These restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter
or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might
involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the
shareholders. We refer to Vornado’s Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust,
as amended, as the “declaration of trust.”
 
Vornado has a
classified Board of Trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain
takeover transactions.
 
Vornado’s Board of Trustees is divided into three classes
of trustees. Trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms.
Staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an
attempt to change control of Vornado, even though a tender offer or change in
control might be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders.
 
We may issue
additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of
certain takeover transactions. 
 
Vornado’s declaration of trust authorizes the Board of
Trustees to:
·     
cause
Vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred
shares;
·     
classify
or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares;
·     
set the
preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares
that Vornado issues; and
·     
increase,
without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that
Vornado may issue.
 
The Board of Trustees could establish a series of
preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control
of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise
be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders, although the Board of
Trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this
kind. Vornado’s declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that
may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction
that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our
shareholders.

 
20


 
  





 

The Maryland General Corporation Law contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. 

 

Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, as amended, which we refer to as the “MGCL,” as applicable to REITs, certain “business combinations,” including certain mergers, consolidations, share exchanges and asset transfers and certain issuances and reclassifications of equity securities, between a Maryland REIT and any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of the trust’s shares or an affiliate or an associate, as defined in the MGCL, of the trust who, at any time within the two-year period before the date in question, was the beneficial owner of ten percent or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust, which we refer to as an “interested shareholder,” or an affiliate of the interested shareholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. After that five-year period, any business combination of these kinds must be recommended by the board of trustees of the trust and approved by the affirmative vote of at least (a) 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust and (b) two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of beneficial interest of the trust other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom, or with whose affiliate, the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder.  These supermajority voting requirements do not apply if the trust’s common shareholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the MGCL, for their shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. 

 

The provisions of the MGCL do not apply, however, to business combinations that are approved or exempted by the board of trustees of the applicable trust before the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder, and a person is not an interested shareholder if the board of trustees approved in advance the transaction by which the person otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. 

 

In approving a transaction, the Board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the Board.  Vornado’s Board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between Vornado and any trustee or officer of Vornado or its affiliates.  As a result, any trustee or officer of Vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with Vornado that may not be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders. With respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of Vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer.

 

We may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders.

Our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our Board of Trustees. Accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies.

 

Our Ownership Structure and Related-Party Transactions May Give Rise to Conflicts of Interest.

Steven Roth and Interstate Properties may exercise substantial influence over us. They and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us.

As of December 31, 2011, Interstate Properties, a New Jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of approximately 6.3% of the common shares of Vornado and 27.2% of the common stock of Alexander’s, which is described below.  Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the three partners of Interstate Properties. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board of Vornado, the managing general partner of Interstate Properties and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Alexander’s. Messrs. Wight and Mandelbaum are trustees of Vornado and also directors of Alexander’s. 

 

Because of these overlapping interests, Mr. Roth and Interstate Properties and its partners may have substantial influence over Vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to Vornado’s shareholders for approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate Properties and our other equity or debt holders. In addition, Mr. Roth, Interstate Properties and its partners, and Alexander’s currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities.



 

21





 
  


 
 
We currently manage and lease the real estate assets of
Interstate Properties under a management agreement for which we receive an
annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent. The management
agreement has a one-year term and is automatically renewable unless terminated
by either of the parties on 60 days’ notice at the end of the term. Because of
the relationship among Vornado, Interstate Properties and Messrs. Roth,
Mandelbaum and Wight, as described above, the terms of the management agreement
and any future agreements between us and Interstate Properties may not be
comparable to those we could have negotiated with an unaffiliated third
party.
 
There may be conflicts
of interest between Alexander’s and us.
As of December 31, 2011, we owned 32.4% of the
outstanding common stock of Alexander’s. Alexander’s is a REIT engaged in
leasing, managing, developing and redeveloping properties, focusing primarily on
the locations where its department stores operated before they ceased operations
in 1992. Alexander’s has seven properties, which are located in the greater New
York metropolitan area.  In addition to the 2.0% that they indirectly own
through Vornado, Interstate Properties, which is described above, and its
partners owned 27.2% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander’s as of
December 31, 2011. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board of Vornado, the
managing general partner of Interstate Properties, and the Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer of Alexander’s.  Messrs. Wight and
Mandelbaum are trustees of Vornado and also directors of Alexander’s and general
partners of Interstate Properties.  Michael D. Fascitelli is the President
and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado and the President of Alexander’s and Dr.
Richard West is a trustee of Vornado and a director of Alexander’s.  In
addition, Joseph Macnow, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer, holds the same position with Alexander’s.  Alexander’s common
stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
“ALX.”
 
We manage, develop and lease Alexander’s properties under
management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we
receive annual fees from Alexander’s. These agreements have a one-year term
expiring in March of each year and are all automatically renewable. Because
Vornado and Alexander’s share common senior management and because certain of
the trustees of Vornado constitute a majority of the directors of Alexander’s,
the terms of the foregoing agreements and any future agreements between us and
Alexander’s may not be comparable to those we could have negotiated with an
unaffiliated third party.
 
For a description of Interstate Properties’ ownership of
Vornado and Alexander’s, see “Steven Roth and Interstate Properties may exercise
substantial influence over us. They and some of our other trustees and officers
have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with
us” above.
 

 
22


 
  





 

 

The Number of Shares of Vornado Realty Trust and the Market for Those Shares Give Rise to Various Risks.

 

The trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate.  

 

The trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control.  In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies.  These broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common shares.  Among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: 

 

·         our financial condition and performance;

·         the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;

·         actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;

·         our dividend policy;

·         the reputation of REITs and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of REIT equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities;

·         uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets;

·         changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other real estate investment trusts;

·         failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;

·         speculation in the press or investment community; 

·         strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; 

·         the extent of institutional investor interest in us;

·         the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; 

·         fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; 

·         general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for real estate investment trusts and other real estate related companies; 

·         domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and 

·         all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this Annual Report on the Form 10-K.  

 

A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders.

 

Vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares.

The interests of our current shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2011, we had authorized but unissued, 64,919,980 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 67,813,291 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 28,304,971 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of Class A Operating Partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 5,800,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred Operating Partnership units.  Any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions.  In addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the Securities Act or under Rule 144 under the Securities Act or other available exemptions from registration.  We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common and preferred shares or Operating Partnership Class A and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding shares.

 

Increased market interest rates may hurt the value of our common and preferred shares.

We believe that investors consider the distribution rate on REIT shares, expressed as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates as an important factor in deciding whether to buy or sell the shares. If market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher distribution rate. Higher interest rates would likely increase our borrowing costs and might decrease funds available for distribution. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common and preferred shares to decline.



 

23





 

  





 

Item 1b