Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

For these statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or the date of any document incorporated by reference. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

 



3

 





 

  





 

PART I

 

ITEM 1.        BUSINESS

Vornado Realty Trust (“Vornado”) is a fully‑integrated real estate investment trust (“REIT”) and conducts its business through, and substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the “Operating Partnership”).  Accordingly, Vornado’s cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the Operating Partnership and the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their obligations to creditors.  Vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 94.0% of the common limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership at December 31, 2013.  All references to “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” and “Vornado” refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership. 

                 

As of December 31, 2013, we own all or portions of:

 

New York:

 

·         19.8 million square feet of Manhattan office space in 31 properties and four residential properties containing 1,653 units;

 

·         2.4 million square feet of Manhattan street retail space in 55 properties;

 

·         The 1,700 room Hotel Pennsylvania located on Seventh Avenue at 33rd Street in the heart of the Penn Plaza district;

 

·         A 32.4% interest in Alexander’s, Inc. (NYSE: ALX), which owns six properties in the greater New York metropolitan area, including 731 Lexington Avenue, the 1.3 million square foot Bloomberg, L.P. headquarters building;

 

Washington, DC:

 

·         16.2 million square feet of office space in 59 properties and seven residential properties containing 2,405 units;

 

Retail Properties:

 

·         14.9 million square feet of retail space in 106 strip shopping centers and single tenant retail assets, primarily in the northeast states and California;

 

·         5.3 million square feet of retail space in six regional malls, located in the northeast / mid-Atlantic states and Puerto Rico; 

 

 

Other Real Estate and Related Investments:

 

·         The 3.6 million square foot Merchandise Mart in Chicago, whose largest tenant is Motorola Mobility, owned by Google, which leases 608,000 square feet;

 

·         A 70% controlling interest in 555 California Street, a three-building office complex in San Francisco’s financial district aggregating 1.8 million square feet, known as the Bank of America Center;

 

·         A 25.0% interest in Vornado Capital Partners, our real estate fund.  We are the general partner and investment manager of the fund;

 

·         A 32.6% interest in Toys “R” Us, Inc.; and

 

·         Other real estate and related investments and mortgage and mezzanine loans on real estate. 



4

 





 

  





 

Objectives and Strategy

Our business objective is to maximize shareholder value. We intend to achieve this objective by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and execute our operating strategies through:

 

·      Maintaining a superior team of operating and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit;

·      Investing in properties in select markets, such as New York City and Washington, DC, where we believe there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation;

·      Acquiring quality properties at a discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents;

·      Investing in retail properties in select under-stored locations such as the New York City metropolitan area;

·      Developing and redeveloping our existing properties to increase returns and maximize value; and

·         Investing in operating companies that have a significant real estate component.

 

We expect to finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by accessing the public and private capital markets.  We may also offer Vornado common or preferred shares or Operating Partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire these securities in the future.

 

 

ACQUISITIONS

 

Since January 1, 2013, we have completed the following acquisitions:

 

·         A 20.1% interest in 650 Madison Avenue, a 27-story, 594,000 square foot Class A office and retail tower located on Madison Avenue between 59th and 60th Street, for $260 million ($1.295 billion at 100%).  

·         A 92.5% interest in 655 Fifth Avenue, a 57,500 square foot retail and office property located at the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 52nd Street in Manhattan, for $277.5 million ($300 million at 100%).  

·         Land and air rights for 137,000 zoning square feet thereby completing the assemblage for our 220 Central Park South development site in Manhattan, for $194 million.

·         Three other Manhattan street retail properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate of $65.3 million.

 

Additional details about our Acquisitions are provided in the “Overview” of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

 

 

DISPOSITIONS

 

Since January 1, 2013, we have sold 20 assets and marketable securities, including J.C. Penney, for an aggregate of $1.8 billion, with net proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion.  Below is a summary of these sales.

 

·         Green Acres Mall in Valley Stream, New York, for $500 million.

·         The Plant, a power strip shopping center in San Jose, California, for $203 million. 

·         866 United Nations Plaza, a 360,000 square foot office building in Manhattan, for $200 million.

·         A retail property in Philadelphia, which is a part of the Gallery at Market Street, for $60 million.

·         A parcel of land known as Harlem Park located at 1800 Park Avenue (at 125th Street) in New York City, for $66 million.

·         A retail property in Tampa, Florida for $45 million, of which our 75% share was $33.8 million.

·         12 other properties, in separate transactions, for an aggregate of $82.3 million. 

·         Marketable securities, principally J.C. Penney, for an aggregate of $378.7 million.

·         Our 26.2% interest in LNR for net proceeds of $240.5 million.

·         Our 50% interest in the Downtown Crossing site in Boston for net proceeds of $45 million.

 

Additional details about our Dispositions are provided in the “Overview” of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

 



5

 





 

 






 

FINANCINGS

 

Since January 1, 2013, we have executed the following capital market transactions:

 

·         A $600 million loan secured by our 220 Central Park South development site.

·         The restructuring of the $678 million (face amount) Skyline properties mortgage loan.

·         Extended one of our two $1.25 billion revolving credit facilities from June 2015 to June 2017, with two six-month extension options. 

·         Five additional financings secured by real estate aggregating $1.707 billion at a weighted average interest rate of 3.63% and a weighted average term of 7.5 years.  One of these financings was to support a recently acquired asset and the other four yielded approximately $351 million of net proceeds.  

·         Issued $300 million of 5.4% Series L Preferred Shares and redeemed all of the outstanding Series F and H Preferred Shares and the Series D-15 Preferred Units, which had a weighted average rate of 6.77%, for $299.4 million.

 

Additional details about our Financings are provided in the “Overview” of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

 

 

SEGMENT DATA

 

We operate in the following business segments: New York, Washington, DC, Retail Properties, and Toys “R” Us (“Toys”).  As a result of certain organizational changes and asset sales in 2012, the Merchandise Mart segment no longer meets the criteria to be a separate reportable segment; accordingly, effective January 1, 2013, the remaining assets have been reclassified to “Other.”  We have also reclassified the prior period segment financial results to conform to the current year presentation. Financial information related to these business segments for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 is set forth in Note 26 – Segment Information to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

 

 

SEASONALITY

 

Our revenues and expenses are subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings, cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the current quarter to the previous quarter. The business of Toys is highly seasonal and substantially all of Toys’ net income is generated in its fourth quarter, which we record on a one-quarter lag basis in our first quarter. The New York and Washington, DC segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and third quarters of the year.  The Retail Properties segment revenue in the fourth quarter is typically higher due to the recognition of percentage and specialty rental income.

 

 

tenants ACCOUNTING FOR over 10% of revenues

 

None of our tenants accounted for more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. 



6

 





 

 






 

Certain Activities

 

We do not base our acquisitions and investments on specific allocations by type of property. We have historically held our properties for long‑term investment; however, it is possible that properties in our portfolio may be sold when circumstances warrant. Further, we have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which could be invested in a specific property or property type. While we may seek the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from time to time by our Board of Trustees without the vote of shareholders.

 

 

Employees 

 

As of December 31, 2013, we have approximately 4,369 employees, of which 339 are corporate staff. The New York segment has 3,244 employees, including 2,564 employees of Building Maintenance Services LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our New York and Washington, DC properties and 516 employees at the Hotel Pennsylvania. The Washington, DC and Retail Properties segments have 448 and 107 employees, respectively and the Merchandise Mart properties have 231 employees.  The foregoing does not include employees of partially owned entities, including Toys or Alexander’s, of which we own 32.6% and 32.4%, respectively.

 

 

principal executive offices

 

Our principal executive offices are located at 888 Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019; telephone (212) 894‑7000.  

 

 

MATERIALS AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE 

 

Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10‑K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10‑Q, Current Reports on Form 8‑K, and amendments to those reports, as well as Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10% beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a), 15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on our website are copies of our Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee Charter, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate Governance Guidelines. In the event of any changes to these charters or the code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website.  Copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge.  Our website also includes other financial information, including certain non-GAAP financial measures, none of which is a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Copies of our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also available free of charge from us, upon request.



7

 





 

  





 

ITEM 1A.     RISK FACTORS

Material factors that may adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition are summarized below.  The risks and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face.  Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.  See “Forward-Looking Statements” contained herein on page 3.

 

Real Estate Investments’ Value and Income Fluctuate Due to Various Factors.

The value of real estate fluctuates depending on conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. 

 

The factors that affect the value of our real estate investments include, among other things:

·      national, regional and local economic conditions;

·      competition from other available space;

·      local conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area;

·      how well we manage our properties;

·         the development and/or redevelopment of our properties;

·      changes in market rental rates; 

·      the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;

·      whether we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through to tenants;

·      changes in real estate taxes and other expenses;   

·      whether tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property attractive;

·      the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;

·      availability of financing on acceptable terms or at all;

·         inflation or deflation;

·      fluctuations in interest rates;

·      our ability to obtain adequate insurance; 

·      changes in zoning laws and taxation;

·      government regulation; 

·      consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the United States;

·      potential liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; 

·         natural disasters;

·      general competitive factors; and

·         climate changes.

 

The rents or sales proceeds we receive and the occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes in any of these factors. If rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. In addition, some of our major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. 

 

Capital markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations as well as the value of our debt and equity securities.

There are many factors that can affect the value of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets and the economy.  Demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide, as it did in 2008 and 2009 due to the economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting.  Government action or inaction may adversely affect the state of the capital markets.  The cost and availability of credit may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants.  Our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the value of our debt and equity securities.

 

 



8

 





 








 






Real
estate is a competitive business.

We compete with a large number of property owners
and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower returns on their
investments. Principal factors of competition include rents charged, sales
prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property and the breadth
and quality of services provided. Our success depends upon, among other
factors, trends of the national, regional and local economies, financial
condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants and
customers, availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs,
taxes, governmental regulation, legislation and population trends.

 

We depend on leasing space
to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who
may not be able to pay.

Our financial results depend significantly on
leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In
addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property,
our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for
distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our
tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy
levels on favorable terms. If a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be
able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial
legal costs.  During periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in
the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy
rates.

 

Bankruptcy or insolvency of
tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash.

From time to time, some of our tenants have
declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become
insolvent in the future. In the case of our malls and strip shopping centers,
the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could cause us to suffer lower
revenues and operational difficulties, including leasing the remainder of the
property. As a result, the bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could
result in decreased revenue, net income and funds available to pay our
indebtedness or make distributions to shareholders.  

 

We may
incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental
contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate.

Our operations and properties are subject to
various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection
of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic
substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or
previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and
clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or
operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties
for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up
costs incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often
impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the
release of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination
or the failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or
lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws
and regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can
require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event
of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of
and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead
paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls
(PCBs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to
risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants
such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can
be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in
susceptible individuals. Our predecessor companies may be subject to similar
liabilities for activities of those companies in the past.  We could incur
fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial
action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims
arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination
at or from our properties.

 

Each of our properties has been subject to varying
degrees of environmental assessment. To date, these environmental assessments
have not revealed any environmental condition material to our business.
However, identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of
contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination,  human
exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or compliance requirements
could result in significant costs to us.

 

We face risks associated with our tenants
being designated “Prohibited Persons” by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. 
 

 

Pursuant to Executive Order 13224
and other laws, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States
Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”) maintains a list of persons designated as
terrorists or who are otherwise blocked or banned (“Prohibited Persons”) from
conducting business or engaging in transactions in the United States.  Our
leases, loans and other agreements may require us to comply with OFAC
requirements.  If a tenant or other party with whom we conduct business is
placed on the OFAC list we may be required to terminate the lease or other
agreement.  Any such termination could result in a loss of revenue or otherwise
negatively affect our financial results and cash flows.




 








9



 






 







 






Our business and
operations would suffer in the event of system failures.   

 

Despite system redundancy, the implementation of
security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal
information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any
number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy
blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. 
Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations
could result in a material disruption to our business.  We may also incur
additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.

 

The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a
deficiency in our cyber security, could negatively impact our business by
causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our
confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of
which could negatively impact our financial results.

 

A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse
event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our
information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional
attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access
to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data, or steal confidential
information. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks
posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. Our three
primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber
incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationship with our
tenants, and private data exposure.  We have implemented processes, procedures
and controls to help mitigate these risks, but these measures, as well as our
increased awareness of
a risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our financial results will
not be negatively impacted by such an incident.

 

Some of our potential
losses may not be covered by insurance. 

We maintain
general liability insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and all
risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per
occurrence, with sub-limits for certain perils such as floods.  Our California
properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of $180,000,000 per
occurrence, subject to a deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the
affected property, up to a $180,000,000 annual aggregate. We maintain coverage
for terrorism acts with limits of $4.0 billion per occurrence and in the
aggregate, and $2.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate for terrorism
involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological (“NBCR”) terrorism
events, as defined by Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act,
which expires in December 2014.

 

Penn Plaza Insurance Company, LLC (“PPIC”), our
wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with respect to a
portion of all risk property and rental value insurance and a portion of our
earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for coverage for NBCR
acts.  Coverage for acts of terrorism (excluding NBCR acts) is fully reinsured
by third party insurance companies and the Federal government with no exposure
to PPIC.  For NBCR acts, PPIC is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 and
15% of the balance of a covered loss and the Federal government is responsible
for the remaining 85% of a covered loss.  We are ultimately responsible for any
loss incurred by PPIC.

 

We continue to monitor the state of the insurance
market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism.  However, we
cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable
terms in the future.

 

Our debt
instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are
non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements
contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. Although we
believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these
agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at
reasonable costs in the future. Further, if lenders insist on greater coverage
than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our
properties and expand our portfolio.

 

Compliance
or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety
regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. 

The Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”)
generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet
certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. 
Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government
or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their
counsel.  From time to time persons have asserted claims against us with
respect to some of our properties under the ADA, but to date such claims have
not resulted in any material expense or liability.  If, under the ADA, we are
required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or
more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as
the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders.

 

 

 

 








10



 






 







 






 

Our properties are subject to various federal,
state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life
safety requirements.  If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could
incur fines or private damage awards.  We do not know whether existing
requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will
require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow
and results of operations.

 

 

Our Investments Are
Concentrated in the New York CITY METROPOLITAN AREA and Washington, DC /
NORTHERN VIRGINIA Area. Circumstances Affecting These Areas Generally Could
Adversely Affect Our Business.

A
significant portion of our properties are located in the New York City / New
Jersey metropolitan area and Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area and are
affected by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas.

In 2013, approximately 96% of our EBITDA,
excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the
New York City metropolitan areas and the Washington, DC / Northern Virginia
area.  We may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future
acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the United
States or abroad.  Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns and we
cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in either the
short or long term. Declines in the economy or declines in real estate markets
in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the value of our
properties.  In addition to the factors affecting the national economic
condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in these regions
include:

·      financial
performance and productivity of the media, advertising, financial, technology,
retail, insurance and real estate industries;

·      space
needs of, and budgetary constraints affecting, the United States Government,
including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and
repositioning under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 2005, as
amended;

·      business
layoffs or downsizing;

·      industry
slowdowns;

·      relocations
of businesses;

·      changing
demographics;

·      increased
telecommuting and use of alternative work places;

·      infrastructure
quality; and

·      any
oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate.

 

It is impossible for us to assess the future
effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic
areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the United States, or the
real estate markets in these areas.  Local, national or global economic
downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability.

 

Terrorist
attacks, such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City and the Washington,   DC area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to
generate cash flow.

We have significant investments in large
metropolitan areas, including the New York, Washington, DC and San Francisco metropolitan areas. In the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in these
areas may choose to relocate their businesses to less populated, lower-profile
areas of the United States that may be perceived to be less likely targets of
future terrorist activity and fewer customers may choose to patronize
businesses in these areas. This, in turn, would trigger a decrease in the
demand for space in these areas, which could increase vacancies in our
properties and force us to lease space on less favorable terms. As a result,
the value of our properties and the level of our revenues and cash flows could
decline materially.

 

Natural
Disasters could have a concentrated impact on the areas where we operate and
could adversely impact our results.

Our investments are concentrated in the New York,
Washington, DC, Chicago and San Francisco metropolitan areas.  Natural
disasters, including earthquakes, storms and hurricanes, could impact our
properties in these and other areas in which we operate.  Potentially adverse
consequences of “global warming” could similarly have an impact on our
properties.  As a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or
repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance and to the risk
of business interruption.  The incurrence of these losses, costs or business
interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results.

 




 








11



 






 







 






We May Acquire or Sell Assets or Entities or Develop
Properties. Our Failure or Inability to Consummate These Transactions or Manage
the Results of These Transactions Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and
Financial Results.

We may
acquire, develop or redevelop real estate and acquire related companies and
this may create risks.

We may acquire, develop or redevelop properties or
acquire real estate related companies when we believe doing so is consistent
with our business strategy. We may not succeed in (i) developing, redeveloping
or acquiring real estate and real estate related companies; (ii) completing
these activities on time or within budget; and (iii) leasing or selling
developed, redeveloped or acquired properties at amounts sufficient to cover
our costs.  Competition in these activities could also significantly increase
our costs. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming
and could divert management’s attention. Acquisitions or developments in new
markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge
may result in weaker than anticipated performance. We may also abandon
acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and
consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred.  Furthermore, we may be
exposed to the liabilities of properties or companies acquired, some of which
we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition.   

 

From time to time we have
made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material
acquisitions.  The announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a
rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares.

 

We are continuously looking at material
transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value.  However, an
announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a
quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares.  

 

It may be difficult to buy
and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility.

Real estate investments are relatively difficult
to buy and sell quickly. Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our
portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.

 

We may
not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt
associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so
without incurring additional costs.  In addition, when we dispose of or sell
assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar
returns.

As part of an acquisition of a property, or a
portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to
dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a
long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the
seller. These agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we
would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance.  In addition, when we
dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds
and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold.

 

From
time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments
in companies over which we do not have sole control. Some of these companies
operate in industries with different risks than investing and operating real
estate.

From time to time we have made, and in the future
we may seek to make, investments in companies that we may not control,
including, but not limited to, Alexander’s, Inc. (“Alexander’s”),
Toys “R” Us (“Toys”), Lexington Realty Trust (“Lexington”), and other equity
and mezzanine investments. Although these businesses generally have a
significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are
different from investing and operating real estate, including operating or
managing toy stores. Consequently, we are subject to operating and financial
risks of those industries and to the risks associated with lack of control,
such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which
we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing directly or
indirectly with these partners or entities.  In addition, we rely on the
internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their
failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may
adversely affect us. 

 

We are
subject to risks that affect the general retail environment.

A substantial portion of our properties are in the
retail shopping center real estate market and we have a significant investment
in Toys.  This means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail
environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence,
the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from discount retailers,
outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies.  These factors could
adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the retailer
in which we hold an investment and the willingness of retailers to lease space
in our shopping centers, and in turn, adversely affect us. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 








12



 






 







 






Our investment in Toys subjects us
to risks that are different from our other lines of business and may result in
increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings.

Because Toys is a retailer, its operations subject
us to the risks of a retail company that are different than those presented by
our other lines of business. The business of Toys is highly seasonal and
substantially all of Toys net income is generated in its fourth quarter. In
addition, our fiscal year ends on December 31 whereas, as is common for
retailers, Toys’ fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31.
Therefore, we record our pro rata share of Toys’ net earnings on a one-quarter
lag basis. For example, our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2013
include Toys’ financial results for its first, second and third quarters ended
November 2, 2013, as well as Toys’ fourth quarter results of 2012.
Because of the seasonality of Toys, our reported quarterly net income shows
increased volatility. We may also, in the future and from time to time, invest
in other businesses that may report financial results that are more volatile than
our historical financial results.  

 

We
depend upon our anchor tenants to attract shoppers.

We own several regional malls and other shopping
centers that are typically anchored by well-known department stores and other
tenants who generate shopping traffic at the mall or shopping center. The value
of our properties would be adversely affected if tenants or anchors failed to
meet their contractual obligations, sought concessions in order to continue
operations or ceased their operations, including as a result of bankruptcy. If
the sales of stores operating in our properties were to decline significantly
due to economic conditions, closing of anchors or for other reasons, tenants
may be unable to pay their minimum rents or expense recovery charges. In the event
of a default by a tenant or anchor, we may experience delays and costs in
enforcing our rights as landlord.

 

Our decision to dispose of real estate
assets would change the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses,
which could result in material impairment losses and adversely affect our
financial results.

 

 We evaluate
real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset
over our anticipated holding period.  If we change our intended holding period,
due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we
must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired.  Depending on the carrying
value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that
we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that
would adversely affect our financial results. This loss could be material to
our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. 

 

We
invest in marketable equity securities.  The value of these investments may
decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. 


We invest in marketable equity securities of
publicly-traded companies, such as Lexington Realty Trust.  As of December 31, 2013,
our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $191,917,000, at
market.  Significant declines in the value of these investments due to, among
other reasons, operating performance or economic or market conditions, may
result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material.  

 

 

Our
Organizational and Financial Structure Gives Rise to Operational and Financial
Risks.

We may not be able to
obtain capital to make investments.

We depend primarily on external financing to fund
the growth of our business. This is because one of the requirements of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for a REIT is that it distributes
90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders.
There is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a
corporate level tax in lieu thereof. Our access to debt or equity financing
depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments
and on conditions in the capital markets generally. Although we believe that we
will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable
future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or
available on acceptable terms.  For information about our available sources of
funds, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to
the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 








13



 






 







 






Vornado Realty Trust (“Vornado”) depends on dividends and
distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. The creditors and
preferred security holders of these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts
payable to them by the subsidiaries before the subsidiaries may pay any
dividends or distributions to Vornado.

Substantially all of Vornado’s assets are held
through its Operating Partnership that holds substantially all of its
properties and assets through subsidiaries. The Operating Partnership’s cash
flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn,
substantially all of Vornado’s cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to
it by the Operating Partnership. The creditors of each of Vornado’s direct and
indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s obligations
to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that
subsidiary to its equity holders. Thus, the Operating Partnership’s ability to
make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries’ ability
first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make
distributions to the Operating Partnership. Likewise, Vornado’s ability to pay
dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the Operating
Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and
make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make
distributions to Vornado.

 

Furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the
Operating Partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before
payment of distributions to holders of Class A units of the Operating
Partnership, including Vornado. Thus, Vornado’s ability to pay cash dividends
to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the Operating
Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and
make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its
Class A units, including Vornado.  As of December 31, 2013, there were three
series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership not held by Vornado with
a total liquidation value of $56,139,000.

 

In addition, Vornado’s participation in any
distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon
the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the
creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are
satisfied.

 

We have
outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and
refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms.

We rely on both secured and unsecured, variable
rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development
activities and for working capital. If we are unable to obtain debt financing
or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and
results of operations would likely be adversely affected.  In addition, the
cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising
interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing
debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.  If the cost or amount of
our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient
amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of credit ratings downgrades and
default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition
and results of operations.

    

Covenants
in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our
acquisitions and development activities.

The mortgages on our properties contain customary
covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of
the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue
insurance coverage. Our unsecured indebtedness and debt that we may obtain in
the future may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other
limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that
limit our ability to incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt
to total assets, our ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of EBITDA
to interest expense, and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a
certain level of unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Our ability to borrow
is subject to compliance with these and other covenants. In addition, failure
to comply with our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt
instrument, and we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from
other sources or give possession of a secured property to the lender. Under
those circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us, or
may be available only on unattractive terms.

 

Vornado may fail to qualify
or remain qualified as a REIT and may be required to pay income taxes at corporate
rates.

Although we believe that we will remain organized
and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax
purposes, we may fail to remain so qualified. Qualifications are governed by
highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which
there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depend on
various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control.  In
addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court
decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal
income tax consequences of qualifying as a REIT.  If, with respect to any
taxable year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and do not qualify
under statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to
shareholders in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal
income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. The federal income
tax payable would include any applicable alternative minimum tax. If we had to
pay federal income tax, the amount of money available to distribute to
shareholders and pay our indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years
involved, and we would no longer be required to make distributions to
shareholders.  In addition, we would also be disqualified from treatment as a
REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification
was lost, unless we were entitled to relief under the relevant statutory
provisions.  

 

 








14



 






 







 






 

We face
possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may result in an increase in our
tax liability.

From time to time changes in state and local tax
laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax
liability. The shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in
recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes.
If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets
or income. These increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for
payment of dividends.

 

Loss of
our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of
our common shares.

We are dependent on the efforts of Steven Roth,
the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado. 
While we believe that we could find a replacement for him and other key
personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely affect
the value of our common shares.

 

 

Vornado’s
charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us.

Our Amended and Restated
Declaration of Trust (the “declaration of trust”) sets limits on the ownership
of our shares.

Generally, for Vornado to maintain its
qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in
value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of Vornado may be owned,
directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the
last half of Vornado’s taxable year. The Internal Revenue Code defines
“individuals” for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding
sentence to include some types of entities. Under Vornado’s declaration of trust,
as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares
of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with
some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit
before Vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by Vornado’s Board
of Trustees. These restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay,
deter or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might
involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders.


 

The Maryland General Corporation Law (the
“MGCL”) contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover
transactions. 

 

The MGCL imposes
conditions and restrictions on certain “business combinations” (including,
among other transactions, a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in
certain circumstances, an asset transfer or issuance of equity securities)
between a Maryland REIT and certain persons who beneficially own at least 10%
of the corporation’s stock (an “interested shareholder”). Unless approved in
advance by the board of trustees of the trust, or otherwise exempted by the
statute, such a business combination is prohibited for a period of five years
after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder became an
interested shareholder.  After such five-year period, a business combination
with an interested shareholder must be: (a) recommended by the board of
trustees of the trust, and (b) approved by the affirmative vote of at least (i)
80% of the trust’s outstanding shares entitled to vote and (ii) two-thirds of
the trust’s outstanding shares entitled to vote which are not held by the
interested shareholder with whom the business combination is to be effected,
unless, among other things, the trust’s common shareholders receive a “fair
price” (as defined by the statute) for their shares and the consideration is
received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested
shareholder for his or her shares.

 

In approving a transaction, the Board may provide
that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval,
with any terms and conditions determined by the Board.  Vornado’s Board has
adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between Vornado and any
trustee or officer of Vornado or its affiliates.  As a result, any trustee or
officer of Vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business
combinations with Vornado that may not be in the best interest of Vornado’s
shareholders. With respect to business combinations with other persons, the
business combination provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of delaying,
deferring or preventing a change in control of Vornado or other transaction
that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the
shareholders. The business combination statute may discourage others from
trying to acquire control of Vornado and increase the difficulty of
consummating any offer.

 

Vornado has a classified Board of Trustees and that may
reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions.

 

Vornado’s Board of Trustees is divided into three
classes of trustees. Trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered
terms. Staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer
or an attempt to change control of Vornado, even though a tender offer or
change in control might be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders.

 




 








15



 






 







 






We
may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the
likelihood of certain takeover transactions. 

 

Vornado’s declaration of trust authorizes the
Board of Trustees to:

·      cause
Vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred
shares;

·      classify
or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares;

·      set
the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified
shares that Vornado issues; and

·      increase,
without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that
Vornado may issue.

 

The Board of Trustees could establish a series of
preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control
of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise
be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders, although the Board of
Trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this
kind. Vornado’s declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that
may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction
that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our
shareholders.

 

We may change our policies
without obtaining the approval of our shareholders.

Our operating and financial policies, including
our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies,
growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively
determined by our Board of Trustees. Accordingly, our shareholders do not
control these policies.

 

 

Our Ownership
Structure and Related-Party Transactions May Give Rise to Conflicts of
Interest.

Steven
Roth and Interstate Properties may exercise substantial influence over us. They
and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in
other entities that may compete with us.

As of December 31, 2013, Interstate Properties, a
New Jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of
approximately 6.6% of the common shares of Vornado and 26.3% of the common
stock of Alexander’s Inc. (NYSE: ALX) (“Alexander’s”), which is described
below.  Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the
three partners of Interstate Properties. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the
Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado, the managing general partner of
Interstate Properties and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
of Alexander’s. Messrs. Wight and Mandelbaum are trustees of Vornado and
also directors of Alexander’s. 

 

Because of these overlapping interests,
Mr. Roth and Interstate Properties and its partners may have substantial influence
over Vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to Vornado’s
shareholders for approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning our
operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among
Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate Properties and our other
equity or debt holders. In addition, Mr. Roth, Interstate Properties and
its partners, and Alexander’s currently and may in the future engage in a wide
variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts
of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these
entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business
opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties
and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential
competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted,
competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as
acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these
entities.

 

We currently manage and lease the real estate
assets of Interstate Properties under a management agreement for which we
receive an annual fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent.  See the
related party disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements
in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

 

There may be conflicts of
interest between Alexander’s and us.

As of December 31, 2013, we owned 32.4% of the
outstanding common stock of Alexander’s. Alexander’s is a REIT that has six
properties, which are located in the greater New York metropolitan area.  In
addition to the 2.1% that they indirectly own through Vornado, Interstate
Properties, which is described above, and its partners owned 26.3% of the
outstanding common stock of Alexander’s as of December 31, 2013. Mr. Roth
is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Office of Vornado, the
managing general partner of Interstate Properties, and the Chairman of the Board
and Chief Executive Officer of Alexander’s.  Messrs. Wight and Mandelbaum
are trustees of Vornado and also directors of Alexander’s and general partners
of Interstate Properties.  Dr. Richard West is a trustee of Vornado and a
director of Alexander’s.  In addition, Joseph Macnow, our Executive Vice
President – Finance and Chief Administrative Officer, is the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of Alexander’s.  

 

 

 

 








16



 






 
  





 

We manage, develop and lease Alexander’s properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements under which we receive annual fees from Alexander’s. See the related party disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.  

 

 

The Number of Shares of Vornado Realty Trust and the Market for Those Shares Give Rise to Various Risks.

The trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate.  

 

The trading price of our common shares has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control.  In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies.  These broad market fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market price of our common shares.  Among the factors that could affect the price of our common shares are: 

·         our financial condition and performance;

·         the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies or defaults;

·         actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition;

·         our dividend policy;

·        the reputation of REITs and real estate investments generally and the attractiveness of REIT equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and fixed income securities;

·         uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets;

·         fluctuations in interest rates;

·        changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs;

·         failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;

·         speculation in the press or investment community; 

·         strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; 

·         the extent of institutional investor interest in us;

·         the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares of our competitors; 

·         fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; 

·        general financial and economic market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for REITs and other real estate related companies; 

·         domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; and 

·         all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this Annual Report on the Form 10-K.  

 

A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders.

 

Vornado has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of its shares.

The interests of our current shareholders could be diluted if we issue additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2013, we had authorized but unissued, 62,715,312 common shares of beneficial interest, $.04 par value and 57,266,023 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par value; of which 20,356,425 common shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of Class A Operating Partnership units, convertible securities and employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for issuance upon redemption of preferred Operating Partnership units.  Any shares not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or in connection with acquisitions.  In addition, common and preferred shares reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration under the Securities Act or under Rule 144 under the Securities Act or other available exemptions from registration.  We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common and preferred shares or Operating Partnership Class A and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding shares.

 

In addition, under Maryland law, the Board has the authority to increase the number of authorized shares without shareholder approval.

 

Item 1b