Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

For these
statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking
statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking
statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K or the date of any document incorporated by reference. All
subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or
any person acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by
the cautionary statements contained or referred to in this section. We do not
undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to our
forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after
the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 








 



4

 



 
PART I

 

ITEM 1.        BUSINESS

Vornado Realty Trust (“Vornado”) is a fully‑integrated
real estate investment trust (“REIT”) and conducts its business through, and
substantially all of its interests in properties are held by, Vornado Realty
L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the “Operating Partnership”). 
Accordingly, Vornado’s cash flow and ability to pay dividends to its
shareholders is dependent upon the cash flow of the Operating Partnership and
the ability of its direct and indirect subsidiaries to first satisfy their
obligations to creditors.  Vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately
 93.7% of the common limited partnership
interest in the Operating Partnership at December 31, 2015.  All references to
“we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” and “Vornado” refer to Vornado Realty Trust
and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership. 

                

On January 15, 2015, we completed the spin-off of substantially
all of our retail segment comprised of 79 strip shopping centers, three malls, a
warehouse park and $225 million of cash to Urban Edge Properties (“UE”) (NYSE:
UE).  As part of this transaction, we received 5,717,184 UE operating
partnership units (5.4% ownership interest).  

         

We currently own all or portions of:

 

New York:

 

·        
21.3 million square feet of Manhattan office space in 35
properties;

 

·        
2.6 million square feet of Manhattan street retail space in 65
properties;

 

·        
1,711 units in eleven residential properties;

 

·        
The 1,700 room Hotel Pennsylvania located on Seventh Avenue at 33rd
Street in the heart of the Penn Plaza district;

 

·        
A 32.4% interest in Alexander’s, Inc. (NYSE: ALX), which owns
seven properties in the greater New York metropolitan area, including 731
Lexington Avenue, the 1.3 million square foot Bloomberg, L.P. headquarters
building;

 

Washington, DC:

 

·        
15.8 million square feet of office space in 57 properties;

 

·        
2,414 units in seven residential properties;

 

Other Real Estate and
Related Investments:

 

·        
The 3.6 million square foot Mart (“theMart”) in Chicago;

 

·        
A 70% controlling interest in 555 California Street, a
three-building office complex in San Francisco’s financial district aggregating
1.8 million square feet, known as the Bank of America Center;

 

·        
A 25.0% interest in Vornado Capital Partners, our real estate
fund.  We are the general partner and investment manager of the fund;

 

·        
A 32.5% interest in Toys “R” Us, Inc.; and

 

·        
Other real estate and other investments. 




 





5

 



 
Objectives and Strategy

Our business
objective is to maximize shareholder value. We intend to achieve this objective
by continuing to pursue our investment philosophy and execute our operating
strategies through:

 

·      Maintaining a superior team of operating
and investment professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit

·      Investing in properties in select
markets, such as New York City and Washington, DC, where we believe
there is a high likelihood of capital appreciation

·      Acquiring quality properties at a
discount to replacement cost and where there is a significant potential for
higher rents

·      Investing in retail properties in select
under-stored locations such as the New York City metropolitan area

·      Developing and redeveloping our existing
properties to increase returns and maximize value

·        
Investing
in operating companies that have a significant real estate component

 

We expect to
finance our growth, acquisitions and investments using internally generated
funds, proceeds from asset sales and by accessing the public and private
capital markets.  We may also offer Vornado common or preferred shares or
Operating Partnership units in exchange for property and may repurchase or
otherwise reacquire these securities in the future.

 

 

ACQUISITIONS

 

Since January
1, 2015, we acquired assets aggregating $845.8 million. Below is the summary of
the significant acquisitions.

 

·        
150 West 34th Street for approximately $355 million

·        
The Center Building, located at 33-00 Northern Boulevard in Long
Island City, NY for $142 million

·        
260 Eleventh Avenue for 813,900 newly issued Vornado Operating
Partnership units valued at approximately $80 million

·        
265 West 34th Street for approximately $28.5 million

·        
We increased our ownership in Crowne Plaza Times Square Hotel to
33% from 11% by co-investing with our 25% owned real estate fund and one of the
fund’s limited partners to buy out the fund’s joint venture partner’s 57%
interest 

·        
We entered into a joint venture in which we have a 55% ownership
interest to develop a Class-A office building at 512 West 22nd Street

 

 

Additional
details about our acquisitions are provided in the “Overview” of Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

 

 

DISPOSITIONS

 

Since January
1, 2015, we sold eleven assets for an aggregate of $1.044 billion, with net
proceeds of approximately $980 million.  Below is a summary of these sales.

 

·        
We completed the spin-off of substantially all of our retail
segment to Urban Edge Properties

·        
20 Broad Street for an aggregate consideration of $200 million
resulting in net proceeds of $193.2 million

·        
1750 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW in Washington, DC for $182 million
resulting in net proceeds of $177.6 million

·        
Our 50% interest in the Monmouth Mall in Eatontown, NJ for $38
million

·        
Our Geary Street, CA lease for $35.3 million resulting in net
proceeds of $34.2 million

·        
We transferred the redeveloped Springfield Town Center, located
in Springfield, VA to PREIT Associates, L.P. for $485.3 million resulting in
net proceeds of $463.5 million.

·        
Five residual retail assets for an aggregate of $11.4 million
resulting in net proceeds of $10.7 million

·        
520 Broadway for $91.7 million resulting in net proceeds of $62.9
million

 

 

Additional
details about our dispositions are provided in the “Overview” of Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 




 





6

 



 
FINANCINGS

 

Since January
1, 2015, we completed the following financing transactions:

 

·        
Entered into an unsecured delayed-draw term loan facility in the
maximum amount of $750 million ($187.5 million outstanding at December 31,
2015)

·        
Completed $700 million refinancing of 770 Broadway for net
proceeds of approximately $330 million.

·        
Completed $580 million refinancing of 100 West 33rd Street for
net proceeds of approximately $242 million

·        
Redeemed $500 million 4.25% senior unsecured notes due April 2015

·        
Completed $450 million financing of the retail condominium of the
St. Regis Hotel and the adjacent retail town house

·        
Completed $375 million refinancing of 888 Seventh Avenue for net
proceeds of approximately $49 million

·        
Upsized loan on 220 Central Park South development by $350
million to $950 million

·        
Completed $308 million refinancing of RiverHouse Apartments for
net proceeds of approximately $43 million

·        
$205 million of financing in connection with acquisition of 150
West 34th Street

 

Additional
details about our financings are provided in the “Overview” of Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 

 

 

DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES

 

We are
constructing a residential condominium tower containing 392,000 salable square
feet on our 220 Central Park South development site.  The incremental
development cost of this project is approximately $1.3 billion, of which $293
million has been expended as of December 31, 2015.

 

We are
developing The Bartlett, a 699-unit residential project in Pentagon City, which
is expected to be completed in 2016.  The project includes a 40,000 square foot
Whole Foods Market at the base of the building.  The incremental development
cost of this project is approximately $250 million, of which $166 million has
been expended as of December 31, 2015. 

 

On June 24,
2015, we entered into a joint venture, in which we own a 55% interest, to
develop a 173,000 square foot Class-A office building, located along the
western edge of the High Line at 512 West 22nd Street in the West Chelsea
submarket of Manhattan.  The development cost of this project is approximately
$235 million.  On November 24, 2015, the joint venture obtained a $126 million
construction loan.  The loan matures in November 2019 with two six-month
extension options.  The interest rate is LIBOR plus 2.65% (3.07% at December
31, 2015).  As of December 31, 2015, the outstanding balance of the loan was
$44.1 million, of which $24.2 million is our share.    

 

On July 23,
2014, a joint venture in which we are a 50.1% partner entered into a 99-year
ground lease for 61 Ninth Avenue located on the Southwest corner of Ninth
Avenue and 15th Street in the West Chelsea submarket of Manhattan.  The
venture’s current plans are to construct an office building, with retail at the
base, of approximately 167,000 square feet.  Total development costs are
currently estimated to be approximately $150 million.

 

We plan to
demolish two adjacent Washington, DC office properties, 1726 M Street and 1150
17th Street in the first half of 2016 and replace them in the future with a new
335,000 square foot Class A office building, to be addressed 1700 M Street. 
The incremental development cost of the project is approximately $170 million.

 

We are also
evaluating other development and redevelopment opportunities at certain of our
properties in Manhattan, including the Penn Plaza District, and in Washington,
including Crystal City, Rosslyn and Pentagon City.

 

There can be
no assurance that any of our development or redevelopment projects will
commence, or if commenced, be completed, or completed on schedule or within
budget.




 

 



7

 



 
SEGMENT
DATA

 

We operate in the following
business segments: New York and Washington, DC.  Financial information related
to these business segments for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013
is set forth in Note 24 – Segment Information to our consolidated financial
statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

 

 

SEASONALITY

 

Our revenues and expenses are
subject to seasonality during the year which impacts quarterly net earnings,
cash flows and funds from operations, and therefore impacts comparisons of the
current quarter to the previous quarter.  The New York and Washington, DC
segments have historically experienced higher utility costs in the first and
third quarters of the year. 

 

 

tenants ACCOUNTING FOR over 10% of revenues

 

None of our tenants accounted for
more than 10% of total revenues in any of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014
and 2013.

 

Certain Activities

 

We do not base our acquisitions and investments on
specific allocations by type of property. We have historically held our
properties for long‑term investment; however, it is possible that
properties in our portfolio may be sold when circumstances warrant. Further, we
have not adopted a policy that limits the amount or percentage of assets which
could be invested in a specific property or property type. While we may seek
the vote of our shareholders in connection with any particular material
transaction, generally our activities are reviewed and may be modified from
time to time by our Board of Trustees without the vote of shareholders.

 

 

Employees 

 

As of December 31, 2015, we have approximately 4,089 employees, of which 298 are corporate staff. The New
York segment has 3,242 employees, including 2,566 employees
of Building Maintenance Services LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary, which provides
cleaning, security and engineering services primarily to our New York and
Washington, DC properties and 487 employees at the Hotel Pennsylvania. The Washington,
DC segment and theMart properties have 462 and 87
employees, respectively.  The foregoing does not include employees of partially
owned entities.

 

 

principal executive offices

 

Our principal executive offices are located at 888
Seventh Avenue, New York, New York 10019; telephone (212) 894‑7000. 


 

 

MATERIALS AVAILABLE ON OUR WEBSITE 

 

Copies of our
Annual Report on Form 10‑K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10‑Q,
Current Reports on Form 8‑K, and amendments to those reports, as
well as Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5 regarding officers, trustees or 10%
beneficial owners of us, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a),
15(d) or 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free
of charge through our website (www.vno.com) as soon as reasonably practicable
after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Also available on our website are copies of our Audit
Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Corporate Governance and
Nominating Committee Charter, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Corporate
Governance Guidelines. In the event of any changes to these charters or the
code or guidelines, changed copies will also be made available on our website. 
Copies of these documents are also available directly from us free of charge. 
Our website also includes other financial information, including certain
non-GAAP financial measures, none of which is a part of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.  Copies of our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are
also available free of charge from us, upon request.












8

 



 
ITEM
1A.     RISK FACTORS

Material factors that may adversely affect our
business, operations and financial condition are summarized below.  The risks
and uncertainties described herein may not be the only ones we face. 
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we
currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business.  See
“Forward-Looking Statements” contained herein on page 4.

 

Real Estate
Investments’ Value and Income Fluctuate Due to Various Factors.

The value of real estate fluctuates depending on
conditions in the general economy and the real estate business. These
conditions may also adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. 

 

The factors that affect the value of our real
estate investments include, among other things:

·      global,
national, regional and local economic conditions;

·      competition
from other available space;

·      local
conditions such as an oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real
estate in the area;

·      how
well we manage our properties;

·        
the development and/or redevelopment of our properties;

·      changes
in market rental rates; 

·      the
timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals;

·      whether
we are able to pass all or portions of any increases in operating costs through
to tenants;

·      changes
in real estate taxes and other expenses;   

·      whether
tenants and users such as customers and shoppers consider a property
attractive;

·        
changes in space utilization by our tenants due to technology,
economic conditions and business environment;

·      the
financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of tenant bankruptcies
or defaults;

·      availability
of financing on acceptable terms or at all;

·        
inflation or deflation;

·      fluctuations
in interest rates;

·      our
ability to obtain adequate insurance; 

·      changes
in zoning laws and taxation;

·      government
regulation; 

·      consequences
of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attacks against, the United
States or individual acts of violence in public spaces including retail
centers;

·      potential
liability under environmental or other laws or regulations; 

·        
natural disasters;

·      general
competitive factors; and

·        
climate changes.

 

The rents or sales proceeds we receive and the
occupancy levels at our properties may decline as a result of adverse changes
in any of these factors. If rental revenues, sales proceeds and/or occupancy
levels decline, we generally would expect to have less cash available to pay
indebtedness and for distribution to shareholders. In addition, some of our
major expenses, including mortgage payments, real estate taxes and maintenance
costs generally do not decline when the related rents decline. 

 

Capital
markets and economic conditions can materially affect our liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations as well as the value of our debt and equity
securities.

There are many factors that can affect the value
of our debt and equity securities, including the state of the capital markets
and the economy.  Demand for office and retail space may decline nationwide, as
it did in 2008 and 2009 due to the economic downturn, bankruptcies, downsizing,
layoffs and cost cutting.  Government action or inaction may adversely affect
the state of the capital markets.  The cost and availability of credit may be
adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads, which
may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, including our
results of operations, and the liquidity and financial condition of our
tenants.  Our inability or the inability of our tenants to timely refinance
maturing liabilities and access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs may
materially affect our financial condition and results of operations and the
value of our debt and equity securities.




 





9

 



 
Real
estate is a competitive business.

We compete with a large number of real estate
property owners and developers, some of which may be willing to accept lower
returns on their investments. Principal factors of competition are rents
charged, sales prices, attractiveness of location, the quality of the property
and the breadth and the quality of services provided. Our success depends upon,
among other factors, trends of the global, national, regional and local
economies, the financial condition and operating results of current and
prospective tenants and customers, availability and cost of capital,
construction and renovation costs, taxes, governmental regulations,
legislation, population and employment trends.

 

We depend on leasing space
to tenants on economically favorable terms and collecting rent from tenants who
may not be able to pay.

Our financial results depend significantly on
leasing space in our properties to tenants on economically favorable terms. In
addition, because a majority of our income comes from renting of real property,
our income, funds available to pay indebtedness and funds available for
distribution to shareholders will decrease if a significant number of our
tenants cannot pay their rent or if we are not able to maintain occupancy
levels on favorable terms. If a tenant does not pay its rent, we may not be
able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial
legal costs.  During periods of economic adversity, there may be an increase in
the number of tenants that cannot pay their rent and an increase in vacancy
rates.

 

We may be unable to renew
leases or relet space as leases expire.

When our tenants decide not to renew their leases
upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. Even if tenants
do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking
into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and
leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired
leases. In addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our
ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in
renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property.
If we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar
rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our
cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and
distributions to security holders could be adversely affected.

 

Bankruptcy or insolvency of
tenants may decrease our revenue, net income and available cash.

From time to time, some of our tenants have
declared bankruptcy, and other tenants may declare bankruptcy or become
insolvent in the future. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant could
cause us to suffer lower revenues and operational difficulties, including
leasing the remainder of the property. As a result, the bankruptcy or
insolvency of a major tenant could result in decreased revenue, net income and
funds available to pay our indebtedness or make distributions to shareholders. 


 

We may
incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and environmental
contamination may impair our ability to lease and/or sell real estate.

Our operations and properties are subject to
various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the protection
of the environment, including air and water quality, hazardous or toxic
substances and health and safety. Under some environmental laws, a current or
previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and
clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. The owner or
operator may also be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties
for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs
incurred by those parties because of the contamination. These laws often impose
liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of the release
of the substances or caused the release. The presence of contamination or the
failure to remediate contamination may impair our ability to sell or lease real
estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other laws and
regulations govern indoor and outdoor air quality including those that can
require the abatement or removal of asbestos-containing materials in the event
of damage, demolition, renovation or remodeling and also govern emissions of
and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The maintenance and removal of lead
paint and certain electrical equipment containing polychlorinated biphenyls
(PCBs) are also regulated by federal and state laws. We are also subject to
risks associated with human exposure to chemical or biological contaminants
such as molds, pollens, viruses and bacteria which, above certain levels, can
be alleged to be connected to allergic or other health effects and symptoms in
susceptible individuals. Our predecessor companies may be subject to similar
liabilities for activities of those companies in the past.  We could incur
fines for environmental compliance and be held liable for the costs of remedial
action with respect to the foregoing regulated substances or related claims
arising out of environmental contamination or human exposure to contamination
at or from our properties.








10

 



 
Each of our properties
has been subject to varying degrees of environmental assessment. To date, these
environmental assessments have not revealed any environmental condition
material to our business. However, identification of new compliance concerns or
undiscovered areas of contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of
contamination, human exposure to contamination or changes in clean-up or
compliance requirements could result in significant costs to us.

 

In addition, we may become subject to costs or
taxes, or increases therein, associated with natural resource or energy usage
(such as a “carbon tax”).  These costs or taxes could increase our operating
costs and decrease the cash available to pay our obligations or distribute to
equity holders.

 

We face
risks associated with our tenants being designated “Prohibited Persons” by the
Office of Foreign Assets Control and similar requirements.  

Pursuant to Executive Order 13224 and other laws,
the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the
Treasury (“OFAC”) maintains a list of persons designated as terrorists or who
are otherwise blocked or banned (“Prohibited Persons”) from conducting business
or engaging in transactions in the United States and thereby restricts our
doing business with such persons.  We are required to comply with OFAC and
related requirements and may be required to terminate or otherwise amend our
leases, loans and other agreements.  If a tenant or other party with whom we
conduct business is placed on the OFAC list or is otherwise a party with which
we are prohibited from doing business, we may be required to terminate the
lease or other agreement.  Any such termination could result in a loss of
revenue or otherwise negatively affect our financial results and cash flows.

 

Our
business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures.  

Despite system redundancy, the implementation of
security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our
internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages
from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access,
energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication
failures.  Any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our
operations could result in a material disruption to our business.  We may also
incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions.

 

The
occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in our cyber security, could
negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a
compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our
business relationships or reputation, all of which could negatively impact our
financial results.

We face risks associated with security breaches,
whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the Internet, malware,
computer viruses, attachments to e-mails, persons who access our systems from
inside or outside our organization, and other significant disruptions of our IT
networks and related systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption,
particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer
hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as
the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions
from around the world have increased. Our IT networks and related systems
are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform
day-to-day operations (including managing our building systems) and, in some
cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants. Although we
make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of these types of
IT networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures
to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no
assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that
attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging.
Even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities
remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted
security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched
against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in
fact, may not be detected. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these
techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative
measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. 

 

A security breach or other significant disruption
involving our IT networks and related systems could disrupt the proper
functioning of our networks and systems and therefore our operations and/or
those of certain of our tenants; result in the unauthorized access to, and
destruction, loss, theft, misappropriation or release of, proprietary,
confidential, sensitive or otherwise valuable information of ours or others,
which others could use to compete against us or which could expose us to damage
claims by third-parties for disruptive, destructive or otherwise harmful
purposes and outcomes; result in our inability to maintain the building systems
relied upon by our tenants for the efficient use of their leased space; require
significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that
result; subject us to claims for breach of contract, damages, credits,
penalties or termination of leases or other agreements; or damage our
reputation among our tenants and investors generally. Any or all of the
foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations,
financial condition and cash flows. 




 





11

 



 
Some of our potential losses may not be covered by
insurance. 

We maintain general liability
insurance with limits of $300,000,000 per occurrence and per property, and all
risk property and rental value insurance with limits of $2.0 billion per
occurrence, with sub-limits for certain perils such as flood and earthquake.
Our California properties have earthquake insurance with coverage of
$180,000,000 per occurrence and in the annual aggregate, subject to a
deductible in the amount of 5% of the value of the affected property. We
maintain coverage for terrorism acts with limits of $4.0 billion per occurrence
and in the aggregate, and $2.0 billion per occurrence and in the aggregate for
terrorism involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological (“NBCR”)
terrorism events, as defined by Terrorism Risk Insurance Program
Reauthorization Act of 2015, which expires in December 2020. 

 

Penn Plaza Insurance Company, LLC
(“PPIC”), our wholly owned consolidated subsidiary, acts as a re-insurer with
respect to a portion of all risk property and rental value insurance and a
portion of our earthquake insurance coverage, and as a direct insurer for
coverage for acts of terrorism including NBCR acts. Coverage for acts of
terrorism (excluding NBCR acts) is fully reinsured by third party insurance
companies and the Federal government with no exposure to PPIC. For NBCR acts,
PPIC is responsible for a deductible of $3,200,000 ($2,400,000 effective
January 1, 2016) per occurrence and 15% of the balance of a covered loss (16%
effective January 1, 2016) and the Federal government is responsible for the
remaining 85% of a covered loss (84% effective January 1, 2016). We are
ultimately responsible for any loss incurred by PPIC. 

 

We continue to monitor the state of the insurance
market and the scope and costs of coverage for acts of terrorism.  However, we
cannot anticipate what coverage will be available on commercially reasonable
terms in the future.

 

Our debt
instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties which are
non-recourse to us, senior unsecured notes and revolving credit agreements
contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. Although we
believe that we have adequate insurance coverage for purposes of these
agreements, we may not be able to obtain an equivalent amount of coverage at
reasonable costs in the future. Further, if lenders insist on greater coverage
than we are able to obtain it could adversely affect our ability to finance our
properties and expand our portfolio.

 

Compliance
or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act or other safety
regulations and requirements could result in substantial costs. 

The Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”)
generally requires that public buildings, including our properties, meet
certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. 
Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the federal government
or the award of damages to private litigants and/or legal fees to their
counsel.  From time to time persons have asserted claims against us with
respect to some of our properties under the ADA, but to date such claims have
not resulted in any material expense or liability.  If, under the ADA, we are
required to make substantial alterations and capital expenditures in one or
more of our properties, including the removal of access barriers, it could
adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, as well as
the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders.

 

Our properties are subject to various federal,
state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life
safety requirements.  If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could
incur fines or private damage awards.  We do not know whether existing
requirements will change or whether compliance with future requirements will
require significant unanticipated expenditures that will affect our cash flow
and results of operations.




 





12

 



 
Our
Investments Are Concentrated in the New York CITY METROPOLITAN AREA and
Washington, DC / NORTHERN VIRGINIA Area. Circumstances Affecting These Areas
Generally Could Adversely Affect Our Business.

 

A significant
portion of our properties are located in the New York City / New Jersey
metropolitan area and Washington, DC / Northern Virginia area and are affected
by the economic cycles and risks inherent to those areas.

In 2015, approximately 92% of our EBITDA,
excluding items that affect comparability, came from properties located in the
New York City metropolitan area and the Washington, DC / Northern Virginia
area.  We may continue to concentrate a significant portion of our future
acquisitions in these areas or in other geographic real estate markets in the
United States or abroad.  Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns
and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact these markets in
either the short or long term. Declines in the economy or declines in real
estate markets in these areas could hurt our financial performance and the
value of our properties.  In addition to the factors affecting the national
economic condition generally, the factors affecting economic conditions in these
regions include:

·      financial
performance and productivity of the media, advertising, financial, technology,
retail, insurance and real estate industries;

·      space
needs of, and budgetary constraints affecting, the United States Government,
including the effect of a deficit reduction plan and/or base closures and
repositioning under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 2005, as
amended;

·      business
layoffs or downsizing;

·      industry
slowdowns;

·      relocations
of businesses;

·      changing
demographics;

·      increased
telecommuting and use of alternative work places;

·      infrastructure
quality; and

·      any
oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate.

 

It is impossible for us to assess the future
effects of trends in the economic and investment climates of the geographic
areas in which we concentrate, and more generally of the United States, or the
real estate markets in these areas.  Local, national or global economic
downturns, would negatively affect our businesses and profitability.

 

Terrorist
attacks, such as those of September 11, 2001 in New York City and the Washington,   DC area, may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to
generate cash flow.

We have significant investments in large
metropolitan areas, including the New York, Washington, DC, Chicago and San
Francisco metropolitan areas. In response to a terrorist attack or the
perceived threat of terrorism, tenants in these areas may choose to relocate
their businesses to less populated, lower-profile areas of the United States that
may be perceived to be less likely targets of future terrorist activity and
fewer customers may choose to patronize businesses in these areas. This, in
turn, would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in these areas, which
could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease space on less
favorable terms. As a result, the value of our properties and the level of our
revenues and cash flows could decline materially.

 

Natural
disasters and the effects of climate change could have a concentrated impact on
the areas where we operate and could adversely impact our results.

Our investments are concentrated in the New York,
Washington, DC, Chicago and San Francisco metropolitan areas.  Natural
disasters, including earthquakes, storms and hurricanes, could impact our
properties in these and other areas in which we operate.  Potentially adverse
consequences of “global warming” could similarly have an impact on our
properties.  As a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or
repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance and to the risk
of business interruption.  The incurrence of these losses, costs or business
interruptions may adversely affect our operating and financial results.






13

 



 
  



We May Acquire or Sell Assets or Entities or Develop Properties. Our Failure or Inability to Consummate These Transactions or Manage the Results of These Transactions Could Adversely Affect Our Operations and Financial Results.

We may acquire, develop or redevelop real estate and acquire related companies and this may create risks.

We may acquire, develop or redevelop properties or acquire real estate related companies when we believe doing so is consistent with our business strategy. We may not succeed in (i) developing, redeveloping or acquiring real estate and real estate related companies; (ii) completing these activities on time or within budget; and (iii) leasing or selling developed, redeveloped or acquired properties at amounts sufficient to cover our costs.  Competition in these activities could also significantly increase our costs. Difficulties in integrating acquisitions may prove costly or time-consuming and could divert management’s attention. Acquisitions or developments in new markets or industries where we do not have the same level of market knowledge may result in weaker than anticipated performance. We may also abandon acquisition or development opportunities that we have begun pursuing and consequently fail to recover expenses already incurred.  Furthermore, we may be exposed to the liabilities of properties or companies acquired, some of which we may not be aware of at the time of acquisition.   

 

From time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions.  The announcement of such a material acquisition may result in a rapid and significant decline in the price of our common shares.

 

We are continuously looking at material transactions that we believe will maximize shareholder value.  However, an announcement by us of one or more significant acquisitions could result in a quick and significant decline in the price of our common shares.  

 

It may be difficult to buy and sell real estate quickly, which may limit our flexibility.

Real estate investments are relatively difficult to buy and sell quickly. Consequently, we may have limited ability to vary our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.

 

We may not be permitted to dispose of certain properties or pay down the debt associated with those properties when we might otherwise desire to do so without incurring additional costs.  In addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn similar returns.

As part of an acquisition of a property, or a portfolio of properties, we may agree, and in the past have agreed, not to dispose of the acquired properties or reduce the mortgage indebtedness for a long-term period, unless we pay certain of the resulting tax costs of the seller. These agreements could result in us holding on to properties that we would otherwise sell and not pay down or refinance.  In addition, when we dispose of or sell assets, we may not be able to reinvest the sales proceeds and earn returns similar to those generated by the assets that were sold.

 

From time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. Some of these companies operate in industries with different risks than investing and operating real estate.

From time to time we have made, and in the future we may seek to make, investments in companies that we may not control, including, but not limited to, Alexander’s, Inc. (“Alexander’s”), Toys “R” Us, Inc. (“Toys”), Lexington Realty Trust (“Lexington”), Urban Edge Properties (“UE”), Pennsylvania Real Estate Investment Trust (“PREIT”), and other equity and loan investments. Although these businesses generally have a significant real estate component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from investing and operating real estate, including operating or managing toy stores. Consequently, we are subject to operating and financial risks of those industries and to the risks associated with lack of control, such as having differing objectives than our partners or the entities in which we invest, or becoming involved in disputes, or competing directly or indirectly with these partners or entities.  In addition, we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may adversely affect us. 

 

We are subject to risks that affect the general and New York City retail environments.

Certain of our properties are Manhattan street retail properties.  As such, these properties are affected by the general and New York City retail environments, including the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the threat of terrorism and increasing competition from retailers, outlet malls, retail websites and catalog companies.  These factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail locations, and in turn, adversely affect us.

 



14

 





 

Our investment in Toys has in the past and may in the
future result in increased seasonality and volatility in our reported earnings.

We carry our Toys investment at zero.  As a result, we
no longer record our equity in Toys' income or loss.   Because Toys
is a retailer, its operations subject us to the risks of a retail company that
are different than those presented by our other lines of business. The business
of Toys is highly seasonal and substantially all of Toys net income is
generated in its fourth quarter.  It is possible that the value of Toys may
increase and we could again resume recording our equity in Toys' income or
loss, which would increase the seasonality and volatility of our reported
earnings.

 

Our decision to dispose of real estate assets would change
the holding period assumption in our valuation analyses, which could result in
material impairment losses and adversely affect our financial results.

 We evaluate
real estate assets for impairment based on the projected cash flow of the asset
over our anticipated holding period.  If we change our intended holding period,
due to our intention to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset, then under
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, we
must reevaluate whether that asset is impaired.  Depending on the carrying
value of the property at the time we change our intention and the amount that
we estimate we would receive on disposal, we may record an impairment loss that
would adversely affect our financial results. This loss could be material to
our results of operations in the period that it is recognized. 

 

We
invest in marketable equity securities.  The value of these investments may
decline as a result of operating performance or economic or market conditions. 


We invest in marketable equity securities of
publicly-traded companies, such as Lexington Realty Trust.  As of December 31,
2015, our marketable securities have an aggregate carrying amount of $150,997,000,
at market.  Significant declines in the value of these investments due to,
among other reasons, operating performance or economic or market conditions,
may result in the recognition of impairment losses which could be material.  

 

Our
Organizational and Financial Structure Gives Rise to Operational and Financial
Risks.

We may not be able to
obtain capital to make investments.

We depend primarily on external financing to fund
the growth of our business. This is because one of the requirements of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, for a REIT is that it distributes
90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gains, to its shareholders.
There is a separate requirement to distribute net capital gains or pay a
corporate level tax in lieu thereof. Our access to debt or equity financing
depends on the willingness of third parties to lend or make equity investments
and on conditions in the capital markets generally. Although we believe that we
will be able to finance any investments we may wish to make in the foreseeable
future, there can be no assurance that new financing will be available or
available on acceptable terms.  For information about our available sources of
funds, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” and the notes to
the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

Vornado
Realty Trust (“Vornado”) depends on dividends and distributions from its direct
and indirect subsidiaries. The creditors and preferred security holders of
these subsidiaries are entitled to amounts payable to them by the subsidiaries
before the subsidiaries may pay any dividends or distributions to Vornado.

Substantially all of Vornado’s assets are held
through its Operating Partnership that holds substantially all of its
properties and assets through subsidiaries. The Operating Partnership’s cash
flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn,
substantially all of Vornado’s cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to
it by the Operating Partnership. The creditors of each of Vornado’s direct and
indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary’s obligations
to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that
subsidiary to its equity holders. Thus, the Operating Partnership’s ability to
make distributions to holders of its units depends on its subsidiaries’ ability
first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make
distributions to the Operating Partnership. Likewise, Vornado’s ability to pay
dividends to holders of common and preferred shares depends on the Operating
Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and
make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make
distributions to Vornado.

 

Furthermore, the holders of preferred units of the
Operating Partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before
payment of distributions to holders of Class A units of the Operating
Partnership, including Vornado. Thus, Vornado’s ability to pay cash dividends
to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on the Operating
Partnership’s ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and
make distributions to holders of its preferred units and then to holders of its
Class A units, including Vornado.  As of December 31, 2015, there were four
series of preferred units of the Operating Partnership not held by Vornado with
a total liquidation value of $56,007,000.

 





15

 



 
In addition, Vornado’s
participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or
indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is
only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred
security holders, are satisfied.

 

We have a substantial amount of indebtedness that could
affect our future operations. 

As of December 31, 2015, our consolidated
mortgages and unsecured indebtedness, excluding related premium, discount and
deferred financing costs, net, totaled $11.2 billion. We are subject to
the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk that our
cash flow from operations will be insufficient to meet required debt service.
Our debt service costs generally will not be reduced if developments at the
property, such as the entry of new competitors or the loss of major tenants,
cause a reduction in the income from the property. Should such events occur,
our operations may be adversely affected. If a property is mortgaged to secure
payment of indebtedness and income from such property is insufficient to pay
that indebtedness, the property could be foreclosed upon by the mortgagee
resulting in a loss of income and a decline in our total asset value.

 

We have
outstanding debt, and the amount of debt and its cost may increase and
refinancing may not be available on acceptable terms.

We rely on both secured and unsecured, variable
rate and non-variable rate debt to finance acquisitions and development
activities and for working capital. If we are unable to obtain debt financing
or refinance existing indebtedness upon maturity, our financial condition and
results of operations would likely be adversely affected.  In addition, the
cost of our existing debt may increase, especially in the case of a rising
interest rate environment, and we may not be able to refinance our existing
debt in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms.  If the cost or amount of
our indebtedness increases or we cannot refinance our debt in sufficient
amounts or on acceptable terms, we are at risk of credit ratings downgrades and
default on our obligations that could adversely affect our financial condition
and results of operations.

   

Covenants
in our debt instruments could adversely affect our financial condition and our
acquisitions and development activities.

The mortgages on our properties contain customary
covenants such as those that limit our ability, without the prior consent of
the lender, to further mortgage the applicable property or to discontinue insurance
coverage. Our unsecured indebtedness and debt that we may obtain in the future
may contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our
ability to incur indebtedness, including covenants that limit our ability to
incur debt based upon the level of our ratio of total debt to total assets, our
ratio of secured debt to total assets, our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense,
and fixed charges, and that require us to maintain a certain level of
unencumbered assets to unsecured debt. Our ability to borrow is subject to
compliance with these and other covenants. In addition, failure to comply with
our covenants could cause a default under the applicable debt instrument, and
we may then be required to repay such debt with capital from other sources or
give possession of a secured property to the lender. Under those circumstances,
other sources of capital may not be available to us, or may be available only
on unattractive terms.

 

A downgrade in our credit
ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition.


Our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned
to our debt securities and our preferred shares could change based upon, among
other things, our results of operations and financial condition. These ratings
are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating
could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its
judgment, circumstances warrant such action. Moreover, these credit ratings are
not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common shares or any other
securities. If any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities
downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency
indicates that it has placed any such rating on a “watch list” for a possible
downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that
rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our
costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the
trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service
obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders.




 





16

 



 
Vornado
may fail to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT and may be required to pay
income taxes at corporate rates.

Although we believe that we will remain organized
and will continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax
purposes, we may fail to remain so qualified. Qualifications are governed by
highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code for which
there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations and depend on
various facts and circumstances that are not entirely within our control. In
addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court
decisions may significantly change the relevant tax laws and/or the federal
income tax consequences of qualifying as a REIT. If, with respect to any taxable
year, we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT and do not qualify under
statutory relief provisions, we could not deduct distributions to shareholders
in computing our taxable income and would have to pay federal income tax on our
taxable income at regular corporate rates. The federal income tax payable would
include any applicable alternative minimum tax. If we had to pay federal income
tax, the amount of money available to distribute to shareholders and pay our
indebtedness would be reduced for the year or years involved, and we would not
be required to make distributions to shareholders in that taxable year and in
future years until we were able to qualify as a REIT.  In addition, we
would also be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year during which qualification was lost, unless we were entitled
to relief under the relevant statutory provisions. 

 

We face possible adverse changes in tax laws, which may
result in an increase in our tax liability.

From time to time changes in state and local tax
laws or regulations are enacted, which may result in an increase in our tax
liability. The shortfall in tax revenues for states and municipalities in
recent years may lead to an increase in the frequency and size of such changes.
If such changes occur, we may be required to pay additional taxes on our assets
or income. These increased tax costs could adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations and the amount of cash available for
payment of dividends.

 

Loss of
our key personnel could harm our operations and adversely affect the value of
our common shares.

We are dependent on the efforts of Steven Roth,
the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado. 
While we believe that we could find a replacement for him and other key
personnel, the loss of their services could harm our operations and adversely
affect the value of our common shares.

 

Vornado’s
charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us.

Our Amended and Restated
Declaration of Trust (the “declaration of trust”) sets limits on the ownership
of our shares.

Generally, for Vornado to maintain its
qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in
value of the outstanding shares of beneficial interest of Vornado may be owned,
directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the
last half of Vornado’s taxable year. The Internal Revenue Code defines
“individuals” for purposes of the requirement described in the preceding
sentence to include some types of entities. Under Vornado’s declaration of trust,
as amended, no person may own more than 6.7% of the outstanding common shares
of any class, or 9.9% of the outstanding preferred shares of any class, with
some exceptions for persons who held common shares in excess of the 6.7% limit
before Vornado adopted the limit and other persons approved by Vornado’s Board
of Trustees. These restrictions on transferability and ownership may delay, deter
or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might
involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the
shareholders. 

 

The Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”)
contains provisions that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover
transactions. 

 

The MGCL imposes conditions and restrictions on
certain “business combinations” (including, among other transactions, a merger,
consolidation, share exchange, or, in certain circumstances, an asset transfer
or issuance of equity securities) between a Maryland REIT and certain persons
who beneficially own at least 10% of the corporation’s stock (an “interested
shareholder”). Unless approved in advance by the board of trustees of the
trust, or otherwise exempted by the statute, such a business combination is
prohibited for a period of five years after the most recent date on which the
interested shareholder became an interested shareholder.  After such five-year
period, a business combination with an interested shareholder must be: (a)
recommended by the board of trustees of the trust, and (b) approved by the
affirmative vote of at least (i) 80% of the trust’s outstanding shares entitled
to vote and (ii) two-thirds of the trust’s outstanding shares entitled to vote
which are not held by the interested shareholder with whom the business
combination is to be effected, unless, among other things, the trust’s common
shareholders receive a “fair price” (as defined by the statute) for their
shares and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as
previously paid by the interested shareholder for his or her shares.




 





17

 



 
  



In approving a transaction, the Board may provide that its approval is subject to compliance, at or after the time of approval, with any terms and conditions determined by the Board.  Vornado’s Board has adopted a resolution exempting any business combination between Vornado and any trustee or officer of Vornado or its affiliates.  As a result, any trustee or officer of Vornado or its affiliates may be able to enter into business combinations with Vornado that may not be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders. With respect to business combinations with other persons, the business combination provisions of the MGCL may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of the shareholders. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of Vornado and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer.

 

Vornado has a classified Board of Trustees and that may reduce the likelihood of certain takeover transactions.

Vornado’s Board of Trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. Trustees of each class are chosen for three-year staggered terms. Staggered terms of trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt to change control of Vornado, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders.

 

We may issue additional shares in a manner that could adversely affect the likelihood of certain takeover transactions. 

 

Vornado’s declaration of trust authorizes the Board of Trustees to:

·      cause Vornado to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares or preferred shares;

·      classify or reclassify, in one or more series, any unissued preferred shares;

·      set the preferences, rights and other terms of any classified or reclassified shares that Vornado issues; and

·      increase, without shareholder approval, the number of shares of beneficial interest that Vornado may issue.

 

The Board of Trustees could establish a series of preferred shares whose terms could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of Vornado’s shareholders, although the Board of Trustees does not now intend to establish a series of preferred shares of this kind. Vornado’s declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a change in control of Vornado or other transaction that might involve a premium price or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders.

 

We may change our policies without obtaining the approval of our shareholders.

Our operating and financial policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions of real estate or other companies, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and dividends, are exclusively determined by our Board of Trustees. Accordingly, our shareholders do not control these policies.

 

Our Ownership Structure and Related-Party Transactions May Give Rise to Conflicts of Interest.

Steven Roth and Interstate Properties may exercise substantial influence over us. They and some of our other trustees and officers have interests or positions in other entities that may compete with us.

As of December 31, 2015, Interstate Properties, a New Jersey general partnership, and its partners owned an aggregate of approximately 7.1% of the common shares of Vornado and 26.3% of the common stock of Alexander’s, Inc. (NYSE: ALX) (“Alexander’s”), which is described below.  Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are the three partners of Interstate Properties. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Vornado, the managing general partner of Interstate Properties, and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Alexander’s. Messrs. Wight and Mandelbaum are Trustees of Vornado and also Directors of Alexander’s. 

 

Because of these overlapping interests, Mr. Roth and Interstate Properties and its partners may have substantial influence over Vornado and on the outcome of any matters submitted to Vornado’s shareholders for approval. In addition, certain decisions concerning our operations or financial structure may present conflicts of interest among Messrs. Roth, Mandelbaum and Wight and Interstate Properties and our other equity or debt holders. In addition, Mr. Roth, Interstate Properties and its partners, and Alexander’s currently and may in the future engage in a wide variety of activities in the real estate business which may result in conflicts of interest with respect to matters affecting us, such as which of these entities or persons, if any, may take advantage of potential business opportunities, the business focus of these entities, the types of properties and geographic locations in which these entities make investments, potential competition between business activities conducted, or sought to be conducted, competition for properties and tenants, possible corporate transactions such as acquisitions and other strategic decisions affecting the future of these entities.

 

We manage and lease the real estate assets of Interstate Properties under a management agreement for which we receive an annual fee equal to 4% of annual base rent and percentage rent.  See the related party disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 

 



18

 





 

There
may be conflicts of interest between Alexander’s and us.

As of December 31, 2015, we owned 32.4% of the
outstanding common stock of Alexander’s. Alexander’s is a REIT that has seven properties,
which are located in the greater New York metropolitan area.  In addition to
the 2.3% that they indirectly own through Vornado, Interstate Properties, which
is described above, and its partners owned 26.3% of the outstanding common
stock of Alexander’s as of December 31, 2015. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of
the Board and Chief Executive Office of Vornado, the managing general partner
of Interstate Properties, and the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of Alexander’s.  Messrs. Wight and Mandelbaum are Trustees of
Vornado and also Directors of Alexander’s and general partners of Interstate Properties. 
Dr. Richard West is a Trustee of Vornado and a Director of Alexander’s.  In
addition, Joseph Macnow, our Executive Vice President – Finance and Chief
Administrative Officer, is the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Alexander’s, and Stephen W. Theriot, our Chief Financial Officer, is
the Assistant Treasurer of Alexander’s.

 

We manage, develop and lease Alexander’s
properties under management and development agreements and leasing agreements
under which we receive annual fees from Alexander’s. See the related party
disclosures in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information.  

 

The Number of Shares
of Vornado Realty Trust and the Market for Those Shares Give Rise to Various
Risks.

 

The trading price of our
common shares has been volatile and may fluctuate.  

The trading price of our common shares has been
volatile and may continue to fluctuate widely as a result of a number of
factors, many of which are outside our control.  In addition, the stock market
is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect
the market prices of the shares of many companies.  These broad market
fluctuations have in the past and may in the future adversely affect the market
price of our common shares.  Among the factors that could affect the price of
our common shares are: 

·        
our financial condition and performance;

·        
the financial condition of our tenants, including the extent of
tenant bankruptcies or defaults;

·        
actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating
results and financial condition;

·        
our dividend policy;

·        
the reputation of REITs and real estate investments generally and
the attractiveness of REIT equity securities in comparison to other equity
securities, including securities issued by other real estate companies, and
fixed income securities;

·        
uncertainty and volatility in the equity and credit markets;

·        
fluctuations in interest rates;

·        
changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of
research reports and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by
rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other REITs;

·        
failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates;

·        
speculation in the press or investment community; 

·        
strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions
or restructurings; 

·        
the extent of institutional investor interest in us;

·        
the extent of short-selling of our common shares and the shares
of our competitors; 

·        
fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our
competitors; 

·        
general financial and economic market conditions and, in
particular, developments related to market conditions for REITs and other real
estate related companies; 

·        
domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our
performance; and 

·        
all other risk factors addressed elsewhere in this Annual Report
on the Form 10-K.  

 

A significant
decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for shareholders.

 

Vornado
has many shares available for future sale, which could hurt the market price of
its shares.

The interests of our current shareholders could be
diluted if we issue additional equity securities. As of December 31, 2015, we
had authorized but unissued, 61,423,147 common shares of beneficial interest,
$.04 par value and 57,266,023 preferred shares of beneficial interest, no par
value; of which 19,923,393 common shares are reserved for issuance upon
redemption of Class A Operating Partnership units, convertible securities and
employee stock options and 11,200,000 preferred shares are reserved for
issuance upon redemption of preferred Operating Partnership units.  Any shares
not reserved may be issued from time to time in public or private offerings or
in connection with acquisitions.  In addition, common and preferred shares
reserved may be sold upon issuance in the public market after registration
under the Securities Act or under Rule 144 under the Securities Act or
other available exemptions from registration.  We cannot predict the effect
that future sales of our common and preferred shares or Operating Partnership
Class A and preferred units will have on the market prices of our outstanding
shares.

 

In addition, under Maryland law, the Board has the
authority to increase the number of authorized shares without shareholder
approval.












19

 



 
 

 

Item 1b