ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        


 RISK FACTORS  

        Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and
uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks or
uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could
decline.

<A
NAME="ci74101_risks_related_to_our_business"> 
 
  Risks Related to Our Business        

 We expect to incur future losses, and we may never become profitable.  

        We have incurred significant operating losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $642.2 million,
$459.9 million and $391.3 million during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and expect to incur significant operating losses in 2010. We expect to
continue to incur operating losses at least until we are able to obtain approval for and successfully commercialize telaprevir, because we are continuing to invest significant amounts in the
late-stage development of telaprevir and VX-770, and in clinical development of our earlier-stage drug candidates and research activities. As a result, we believe that it is
likely that our expenses will exceed our revenues at least until we begin receiving substantial product revenues. There can be no assurance that any of our drug candidates will be approved or, if
approved, will be commercially successful. Our net losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets and working capital. We
expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. We cannot provide assurance that we will ever become profitable. 


 We depend heavily on the success of our lead drug candidate, telaprevir, which is still being evaluated in a registration program. If we are unable to commercialize
telaprevir, or experience delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.  

        We are investing a substantial portion of our personnel and financial resources in the development of telaprevir, and we believe that a
significant portion of the value attributed to our company by investors relates to the commercial potential of telaprevir. We expect that we will be making significant additional investments in
telaprevir in order to be prepared for the potential commercial launch of telaprevir in the United States in 2011, including the establishment of a sales force and marketing capabilities and
additional investment in commercial inventory. The clinical development and commercial success of telaprevir will depend on many factors, including the following: 



•successful completion of clinical trials with favorable outcomes relative to current standards of care and future
competitive therapies;   
•receipt and timing of marketing approvals for telaprevir from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities;  
•receipt and timing of marketing approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for products being
developed for the treatment of HCV infection by our competitors, including Merck's boceprevir;   
•additional discussions with the FDA and similar foreign authorities regarding the quality of our manufacturing process for
telaprevir and our clinical trial results, including the results we expect to obtain in the second and third quarters of 2010 from our Phase 3 clinical trials of telaprevir; 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•interactions with regulatory authorities regarding the contents of any NDA submission, including the data from our
clinical trials and nonclinical studies, any plan setting forth risk evaluation and mitigation strategies and our manufacturing processes;   
•maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements for telaprevir with third-party manufacturers that are subject to
extensive regulation by the FDA, and successfully monitoring those manufacturing operations to ensure they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the FDA, that extensively
monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities;   
•our ability to establish telaprevir, if approved, as a significant component of any oral combination therapies that may be
approved as a treatment for HCV infection;   
•the efficacy and other characteristics, including the side-effect profile, of telaprevir relative to existing
and future treatments for HCV infection;   
•the effect of new health care legislation currently being considered in the United States;   
•our ability to increase awareness of the benefits of early treatment for HCV infection if telaprevir is approved, and to
increase the rates of diagnosis of currently undiagnosed patients with HCV infection; and   
•the acceptance of telaprevir by patients, the medical community and with third-party payors. 


        If
the data from our ongoing clinical trials or nonclinical studies regarding the safety or efficacy of telaprevir are not favorable, we may be forced to delay or terminate the clinical
development of telaprevir, which would materially harm our business. Further, even if we gain marketing approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in a timely manner, we
cannot be sure that telaprevir will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market. If the results of clinical trials of telaprevir, the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals
for telaprevir, or the market acceptance of telaprevir, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, do not meet the expectations of investors or public
market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 

 All of our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be
successful.  

        The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability, and the ability of our collaborators, if any, to develop and
commercialize our drug candidates, including telaprevir and VX-770, successfully. Due to the development efforts of our competitors, in order to be successful in a therapeutic area it is
often necessary to develop follow-on compounds and/or new combination therapies. Our drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and
efficacy before they can be approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for sale. To satisfy these standards, we and/or our collaborators must allocate resources among our various
development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. These discovery and development efforts for a new pharmaceutical product, including follow-on
compounds, are resource-intensive and
may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: 



•offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs;   
•be proven safe and effective in clinical trials;   
•meet applicable regulatory standards;   
•be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or   
•if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        In
addition to our ongoing registration programs for telaprevir and VX-770, we have ongoing and planned Phase 2a clinical trials for a number of our earlier-stage drug
candidates, including a planned clinical trial of telaprevir in combination with VX-222 in patients infected with HCV, a planned clinical trial of VX-809 in combination with
VX-770 in patients with the most common CF mutation, a clinical trial of VX-509 in patients with moderate-to-severe RA and a clinical trial of VX-765 in patients
with epilepsy. While we are heavily dependent on the success of our registration programs, the strength of our company's pipeline of drug candidates and potential drug candidates will depend in large
part upon the outcomes of these ongoing and planned Phase 2a clinical trials. Findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials as well
as results of our clinical trials could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or
program, including telaprevir or
VX-770. Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug
candidate. 

        We
and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising
results in earlier-stage clinical trials. Accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials, positive results in preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not
be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage trials or of the likelihood of approval of
a drug candidate for commercial sale. In addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials, including with respect to our HCV program data regarding patients' HCV RNA levels
during treatment, at the end-of-treatment or 12 weeks after completion of treatment. Interim data are subject to change, and there can be no assurances that interim data
will be confirmed upon the analysis of final data. In addition, interim data with respect to patients' HCV RNA levels may not be predictive of the final SVR rates that will be achieved in the clinical
trial. 

 If we are unable to obtain United States and/or foreign regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates.  

        Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical evaluation, manufacturing
and commercialization. Rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in most other countries prior to the
commercial sale of drug candidates. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that
none of the drug candidates we are developing independently, or in collaboration with others, will be approved for marketing. 

        We
have limited experience in conducting and managing the late-stage clinical trials and NDA process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA.
The time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the FDA and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. Our analysis of data obtained from
nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter
unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials
and FDA regulatory review. 

        Any
delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize any drug candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory
approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not currently expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. Any such limitations could limit the size of the market
for the drug. 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        We
are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party
reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign
requirements. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States. Foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the
FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. 

 If clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged or delayed, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates as currently planned, which would require us to
incur additional costs, would delay our receipt of any product revenue and could harm our competitive position.  

        We cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will
cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the clinical
development of our drug candidates: 



•ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials
and the number of clinical trials we must conduct;   
•delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that
meet the eligibility criteria for the trial;   
•a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials;   
•the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical
investigator error;   
•inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our
clinical trials;   
•unfavorable FDA or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or
its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation;   
•unfavorable results from clinical trials of our drug candidates;   
•serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical
trials;   
•favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval of our
competitors' products; or   
•action by the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold on a trial. 


        Our
ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population,
the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing
for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. In addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical
evaluation after treatment ends, and this could possibly impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. Delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result
in increased costs and longer development times. We are currently investing large amounts of money in research and development, the building of our commercial organization and the building of
commercial supplies of telaprevir. Our revenues constitute only a small fraction of our total investment, which is being funded from various sources, including the sale of shares and convertible debt
and payments from collaborators. Any significant delay in our planned timetable for launch of telaprevir, or disappointing sales post-launch would require us to either 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

seek
additional financing, which might not be available, or attempt to reduce costs through terminating existing programs, or the sale of assets, either of which might be difficult or insufficient. 

        We,
our collaborators, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients
participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug
candidate and our business. 

        In
addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether FDA or other applicable regulatory authority regulations, guidance or interpretations
will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. If we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is
affected or the development of any of our other drug candidates. Any delay in the approval of any of our drug candidates, including telaprevir, could also have a material adverse impact on our ability
to effectively commercialize the drug candidate after approval if one or more of our competitors are able to bring competing therapies to market before or in closer proximity to the launch date for
our drug candidates. 

 The results from our and our collaborators' clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors are released periodically, and have
often resulted in significant volatility in the price of our common stock.  

        Any new information regarding our drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates, and in particular any new
information regarding telaprevir and potentially competitive HCV drug candidates, can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. We, our collaborators and our
competitors periodically provide updates regarding
drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. These periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical
trials conducted by us, our collaborators or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding future clinical development of our drug candidates or potentially
competitive drugs or drug candidates. The timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by when we receive data from
our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. In addition, because clinical trials of drug candidates for the
treatment of HCV infection often occur over more than one year, the information that we, our collaborators and our competitors disclose may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve
interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately reflect final results. 

 If our competitors bring superior drugs to market or bring their drugs to market before we do, we may be unable to find a market for our drug candidates.  

        Our drug candidates in development may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the market or new drugs that
may be developed by others. There are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing in development, in particular for the treatment of HCV infection. In order to
compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and ease of manufacturing and gain market acceptance over competing drugs, such as Merck's boceprevir, that may
receive regulatory approval before or after our drug candidates, and over those that currently are marketed. Many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as Merck,
Bristol-Myers Squibb, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, Roche, Amgen, Novartis and Johnson & Johnson, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. In addition,
many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting nonclinical testing and human clinical trials of drug candidates, scaling up manufacturing operations and
obtaining regulatory approvals of drugs and manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for drugs more rapidly than 

35




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



we
do. No assurances can be given that telaprevir will be approved for marketing prior to boceprevir. If we obtain regulatory approval and launch commercial sales of our drug candidates, we also will
compete with respect to manufacturing efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. 


        We
are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for HCV infections including protease inhibitor compounds like telaprevir and boceprevir, polymerase inhibitor
compounds, NS5A inhibitor compounds and advanced interferons. Even if we are able to obtain marketing approval for telaprevir, it is possible that one or more of these competing therapies could be
approved prior to or shortly after we obtain such approval for telaprevir, or may be approved later but with an equal or better safety and efficacy profile, which we believe may negatively impact
telaprevir sales. 

 If we are unable to develop effective independent sales and marketing capabilities or establish third-party relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates,
we will not be able to successfully commercialize our drug candidates, particularly telaprevir, even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval.  

        We currently have limited experience as a company in sales and marketing or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party
reimbursement for drugs. We are developing marketing capabilities and will need to develop an independent sales force in order to market telaprevir in North America and have entered into
collaborations in order to market telaprevir in the rest of the world if it is approved. We will need to expand these capabilities and/or enter into additional arrangements with third parties to sell
and market our other drug candidates, if they are approved for sale by regulatory authorities. 


        In
order to market telaprevir in North America if it is approved, we are building a marketing organization and will need to build a specialized sales force, which requires substantial
efforts and significant management and financial resources. In addition, if VX-770 is approved, we would also need to establish a sales force in North America and Europe for
VX-770. While we intend to stage our commitments to the extent possible in consideration of the development timelines, in order to support an effective launch of telaprevir, we will need
to make significant financial commitments to our marketing organization prior to receiving regulatory approval. We will need to devote significant effort, in particular, to recruiting individuals with
experience in the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. Competition for personnel with these skills is very high and may be particularly difficult for us since telaprevir is still an
investigational drug candidate and we will be competing with companies that are currently marketing successful drugs. As a result, difficulties in successfully developing our own marketing
capabilities or independent sales force for telaprevir in North America may adversely affect an effective launch of telaprevir if it is approved for sale. 

        We
have granted commercialization rights to other pharmaceutical companies with respect to certain of our drug candidates, including telaprevir, in specific geographic locations. To the
extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drugs, any revenues we receive from sales of any approved drugs in those locations will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts
of others, which we do not control and may not be able to effectively influence. 

 We are investing significant resources in our development program for VX-770, based primarily on data from a relatively small clinical trial in which patients
received VX-770 over a short duration. If we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of VX-770, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed.  

        We are increasing the resources that we are investing in the development of VX-770 and began a registration program for
VX-770 in the first half of 2009 focused on CF patients with the G551D mutation. We initiated this registration program based primarily on data from a Phase 2a clinical trial
of VX-770 in 39 patients with CF, in which patients received VX-770 over 14-day and 28-day periods. 

36




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



This
is a relatively small database from which to project the final outcomes of a drug development program. In order to receive approval for VX-770, we will need to show that
VX-770 is safe and effective in a larger number of patients than were involved in the Phase 2a clinical trial, over significantly longer dosing periods. In addition, our
registration program for VX-770 includes pediatric patient populations in which VX-770 has not previously been studied. Since a substantial portion of the CF population is
under age 18, VX-770's potential commercial success will be dependent not only on marketing approval for adult patients, but also on approval for pediatric patients. If we are unable to
show the safety and efficacy of VX-770 in the relevant patient populations, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. 

 If physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our future drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues, if any.  

        Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, our approved drugs may not gain market acceptance among physicians and
patients. We believe that effectively marketing telaprevir, if it is approved, and our other drug candidates, if any of them are approved, will require substantial efforts, both prior to launch and
after approval. Physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: 



•lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs;   
•prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects;   
•lack of cost-effectiveness;   
•lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors;   
•a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies that have significant perceived advantages over our drug
candidates;   
•convenience and ease of administration;   
•other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and   
•ineffective marketing and distribution support. 


        If
our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. 

 Government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means and if they fail to provide coverage and adequate payment
rates for our future drugs, our revenues and prospects for profitability will be harmed.  

        In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from
third-party payors. Third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Governments and other
third-party payors generally seek to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other
pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement
similar governmental control. Additional and broad health care proposals currently are being considered by the United States Congress. While we cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory
proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and potential profitability. 

        In
addition, these third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs
that they will 

37




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



cover
and the amounts that they will pay for these drugs. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies
in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and
financial and other resources. Our future drugs might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price
levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 


        Reimbursement
rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are
already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate
these rates. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes or relaxation of laws
that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, could reduce the net price we receive for our marketed drugs. 


 If our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to delays in submitting NDAs or restrictions on marketing of drugs after
they have been approved.  

        We currently are developing drug candidates for regulatory approval for the first time since our inception, and are in the process of
implementing regulated processes and systems required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. Certain of these processes and systems for conducting clinical trials and
manufacturing material must be compliant with regulatory requirements before we can apply for regulatory approval for our drug candidates. These processes and systems will be subject to continual
review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. If we are unable to achieve compliance in a timely fashion, or if compliance issues are identified at any point in the
development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. In addition, any later
discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or
manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for
marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer
responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to
our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. If our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be
subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, or may even risk withdrawal, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 We depend on our collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize many of our drug candidates.  

        We have granted development and commercialization rights for telaprevir to Janssen (worldwide other than North America and Far East)
and to Mitsubishi Tanabe (Far East). We expect to receive significant financial support under our Janssen collaboration agreement, as well as meaningful technical and manufacturing contributions to
the telaprevir program. The success of some of our key programs, such as for telaprevir, is dependent upon the continued financial and other support that our collaborators have agreed to provide. Each
of our collaborators has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that it will apply to the collaboration. 

38




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        The
risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: 



•Our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our
agreement with Janssen, termination without cause. Any such termination by Janssen could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or delay the development and commercial sale of
telaprevir.   
•Our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient
resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following
mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of some of our drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators
decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those drug candidates.   
•Our collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue,
either alone or in collaboration with third parties.   
•Our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive
with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. 


 Our investment in the clinical development and manufacture of a commercial supply of telaprevir may not result in any benefit to us if telaprevir is not approved for
commercial sale.  

        We are investing significant resources in the clinical development of telaprevir. Telaprevir is the first drug candidate for which we
expect to perform all activities related to late-stage development, drug supply, registration and commercialization in a major market. We are planning for and investing significant
resources now in preparation for submitting an application for marketing approval, continuing to build our commercial supply inventories of drug product, and completing our scale-up of sales and
marketing capacity. Our costs to obtain a commercial supply of telaprevir have included approximately $20 million, $17 million and $75 million in 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively, and we expect these costs to increase as we near the potential launch of telaprevir. Our engagement in these resource-intensive activities puts significant investment at risk
if we do not obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize telaprevir in North America. There is no assurance that our development of telaprevir will lead successfully to regulatory
approval, or that obtaining regulatory approval will lead to commercial success of telaprevir. If telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale or if its development is delayed for any reason, our
full investment in telaprevir may be at risk, we may face significant costs to dispose of unusable inventory, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 

 We depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture materials for clinical trials and expect to continue to rely on them to meet our
commercial supply needs for any drug candidate that is approved for sale. We may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control.  

        We currently rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical
trials, and we expect that we will continue to rely on third parties for the foreseeable future to meet our commercial supply needs for any of our drug candidates that are approved for sale. As a
result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our drug candidates, we may be subject to significant supply
disruptions outside of our control. Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. Third-party 

39




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



contract
manufacturers, including some in Asia, supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the European Union and the United States convert these raw materials into drug substance and
convert the drug substance into final dosage form. Establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous
third-party contractual relationships. Although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. There can
be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain commercial supply chains on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in order to support a timely launch of telaprevir or any of our
other drug candidates. 

        We
require a supply of telaprevir for our clinical trials, and have agreed to exercise our contractual rights from our third-party manufacturers to provide a supply of telaprevir to
Janssen and Mitsubishi Tanabe for their clinical trials. We will require a supply of telaprevir for sale in North America if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. We have completed the
transfer of technical information regarding the manufacture of telaprevir to Janssen so that Janssen will be able to manufacture telaprevir, if approved, for sale in Janssen's territories and as a
secondary supply source of drug substance for us. We believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to manufacture and distribute
telaprevir. We also believe that supply of materials which cannot be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning. However, there is a risk that we may underestimate or overestimate demand,
and the manufacturing capacity for
which we planned and contracted with third-party manufacturers may not be sufficient or may result in more inventory than is necessary. In addition, because of the significant lead times involved in
our supply chain for telaprevir, we may have less flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times. 

        We
require a supply of VX-770 for clinical trials in North America and Europe, and will require a supply of VX-770 for sale in North America and Europe if we
obtain marketing approval. We obtain VX-770 to meet our clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturer network and are focused on completing the technical development work to
produce VX-770 at a commercial scale. We are in the process of expanding our existing relationships with our third-party manufacturers and establishing new relationships with third-party
manufacturers, in order to establish the supply chain for VX-770 that would be required to support the potential commercial launch of VX-770. 


        Even
if we successfully establish arrangements with third-party manufacturers, supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor
or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. 

        Any
supply disruptions could impact the timing of our clinical trials and the commercial launch of any approved drugs. Furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to
permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for commercial launch and sale. These modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party
manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. Upon approval of a drug for sale, if any, we similarly may be at risk of supply chain disruption for our
commercial drug supply. 

        In
the course of its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently
or jointly with us. This would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products manufactured by other suppliers
utilizing the same process. 

40




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 We may need to raise additional capital that may not be available.  

        We expect to incur substantial expenses as we design and develop existing and future compounds, undertake clinical trials, and build
our drug supply, regulatory, development
and commercial capabilities. We also expect to incur substantial administrative and commercialization expenses. As a result, we may raise additional capital in order to maintain adequate working
capital and cash reserves to continue our diversified research, discovery and development efforts and expect we would need additional capital if the development of telaprevir were materially delayed.
We anticipate that we would finance any additional cash needs with some combination of: 



•public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities or other methods of financing;  
•cash received from existing and future collaborative agreements; and   
•future product sales. 


        While
we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months, we may raise additional capital
through public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities. Any such capital transactions may or may not be similar to the transactions that we have completed in the past. Any
debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay
interest and dividends—although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security
holders. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development
programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain
of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. Based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 

 We may not be successful in developing any of the drug candidates we acquired in our March 2009 acquisition of ViroChem and, as a result, we may not realize any benefits
from this acquisition and could be subject to significant impairment charges in future periods.  


        In March 2009, we acquired ViroChem for $100.0 million in cash and 10.7 million shares of our common stock. We acquired
ViroChem primarily in order to secure rights to two HCV polymerase inhibitors, VX-222 and VX-759, as part of our
strategy to pursue drug candidates that could potentially be developed in combination with telaprevir and/or our earlier-stage drug candidates. VX-222 and VX-759 were still in
Phase 1 clinical development at the time of the acquisition and have only been evaluated in nonclinical studies and in a limited number of patients infected with HCV. While we believe the data
from the clinical trials to date, together with studies in animal models and in vitro data, support the development of combination therapies, there are
numerous reasons why we may not be able to successfully develop a combination therapy involving either VX-222 or VX-759, including: 



•data from trials involving drug candidates evaluated separately may not predict possible outcomes, such as unforeseen drug
interactions, from drug candidates dosed in combination, which could negatively impact the efficacy and safety profile of the combination product candidate;   
•positive results in small clinical trials and nonclinical studies may not be predictive of results in clinical trials
involving large numbers of patients; and   
•favorable results of testing or earlier FDA or foreign regulatory approval of competitors' products. 

41




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

There
can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop either VX-222 or VX-759 alone or in combination with telaprevir or our other HCV protease inhibitors, and
if we are not successful in developing VX-222 or VX-759, we may not realize any benefits from our March 2009 acquisition of ViroChem. 

        At
the time of acquisition, we allocated $525.9 million to intangible assets related to the in-process research and development associated with the ViroChem drug
candidates. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded expense of $7.2 million in connection with an impairment of the intangible assets related to VCH-286, a drug candidate for the
treatment of HIV infection that we acquired from ViroChem. At December 31, 2009, our consolidated balance sheet included $518.7 million of intangible assets related to
in-process research and development, approximately 80% of which related to VX-222 and approximately 20% of which related to VX-759. If the value of these drug
candidates, and in particular
VX-222, becomes impaired, we may incur significant impairment charges, including potentially the entire amount of the intangible assets reflected on our consolidated balance sheet associated with the
drug candidate, in the period in which the impairment becomes known. An impairment could result from, among other things, unfavorable safety or efficacy results from clinical trials or nonclinical
studies or competitive factors affecting the potential market for the drug candidate. VX-759, which is considered a backup compound to VX-222, could be impaired by data
pertaining to the potential successful development of VX-222, which could result in a significant impairment charge in the period in which that determination is made. If we incur a
significant impairment charge in a future period related to the intangible assets acquired in the ViroChem transaction, the value of our common stock could decrease. 


 We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the
completion of such trials.  

        We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as
contract research organizations to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. Our
reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or
may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected
deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of
the affected trial. If clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely
affect the conduct or progress of these trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a trial be redone. Accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and
commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. 

 Issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline.  

        As of December 31, 2009, we had 200.0 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. As of December 31,
2009, we also had outstanding options to purchase 19.2 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $31.38 per share. Outstanding vested options are likely to be
exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price. In addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of our
financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market,
or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding
options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. 

42






<A
NAME="page_ck74101_1_43"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

 Outstanding indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests.  

        As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding $32.1 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.75% Convertible Senior
Subordinated Notes due 2013, or 2013 Notes. In February 2010, we announced that we will redeem the 2013 Notes on March 19, 2010 and will be obligated to redeem the 2013 Notes at the redemption
price if the 2013 Notes are not earlier converted by the holders, as expected, into shares of our common stock. We also are obligated to repay an aggregate of $155.0 million no later than
October 31, 2012 as a result of our issuance of our secured notes due 2012, or the 2012 Notes. We have issued significant amounts of convertible debt in the past and may issue additional
convertible debt or incur other types of indebtedness in the future. The level of our indebtedness could affect us by: 



•making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service
requirements or other purposes;   
•constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the
pharmaceutical industry; or   
•requiring the dedication of substantial cash to service the repayment of any outstanding debt, including periodic interest
payments, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. 


 If we acquire or license technologies, resources or drug candidates, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize benefits from the transaction.  

        If appropriate opportunities become available, we might attempt to license or acquire technologies, resources and drugs or drug
candidates, including potentially complimentary HCV therapies. The process of negotiating the license or acquisition might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and, whether or not any
such transaction is ever consummated, might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, even if we complete a license
or other transaction, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction or we may incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. For example, in the
fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded expense of $7.2 million in connection with an impairment of the intangible assets related to VCH-286, a drug candidate for the treatment of HIV
infection that we acquired from ViroChem. Future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent
liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. 


 If we obtain regulatory approvals, our drug candidates will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing United States and applicable
foreign regulations, we could lose those approvals, and our business would be seriously harmed.  

        If we receive regulatory approval of any drug candidates that we are developing, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review,
including the review of clinical results that are reported after our drug candidates become commercially available. Drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained, and
therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. In addition, the manufacturers
and the manufacturing facilities we engage to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems
with the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, including withdrawal of the drug from the market, our
inability to use the facilities to make our drug or a determination that drug inventories are not safe for commercial sale. If 

43




 


<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



we
fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions
and/or criminal prosecutions. 

 Our drug development efforts are data-driven and therefore potentially subject to abrupt changes in expected outcomes.  

        Small molecule drug discovery and development involve, initially, the identification of chemical compounds that may have promise as
treatments for specific diseases. Once identified as drug candidates, compounds are subjected to years of testing in a laboratory setting, in animals and in humans. Our ultimate objective is to
determine whether the drug candidates have physical characteristics, both intrinsically and in animal and human systems, and a toxicological profile, that are compatible with clinical and commercial
success in the treatment of the disease being targeted. Throughout this process, experiments are conducted and data are gathered that could reinforce a decision to move to the next step in the
investigation process for a particular drug candidate, could result in uncertainty over the proper course to pursue or could result in the termination of further drug development efforts with respect
to the compound being evaluated. We monitor the results of our discovery research and our nonclinical studies and clinical trials and regularly evaluate and re-evaluate our portfolio
investments with the objective of balancing risk and potential return in view of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights. This process can result in relatively abrupt changes in
focus and priority as new information comes to light and we gain additional insights into ongoing programs and potential new programs. 

 We may not have the resources to develop and commercialize all the drug candidates for which we have rights and we may not be able to attract collaborators for the
development and commercialization of these drug candidates  

        As part of our ongoing strategy, we expect to seek additional collaborative arrangements. We have a number of research programs and
early-stage and mid-stage clinical development programs. Depending on how these programs progress, we may not have the funding and/or the personnel to continue the development and
commercialization of all of these programs internally. At any time, we may make the determination that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program we need to identify a
collaborator. Potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all the
funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. No assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully
completed on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated, and the
possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. 

 Risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business.  

        We have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships, and we and our collaborators are seeking approval for our drug
candidates, outside the United States. In addition, we expect that if telaprevir is approved for commercial sale, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw
materials and manufacturing, will be located in Asia and the European Union. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. Risks associated
with conducting operations in foreign countries include: 



•differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;   
•unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; 

44




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;  
•compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;  
•foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;   
•foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other
obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country;   
•workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;  
•production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and  
•business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. 


        These
and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. 

 If we fail to expand our human resources, and in particular our commercial organization, and manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer.  


        We expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate
drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources, particularly in the build out of our commercial capabilities. In advance of the
potential approval of telaprevir we will need to build the commercial organization that will be responsible for the commercial launch of telaprevir, if it receives marketing approval, in the United
States. The number of our full-time employees increased by 6% in 2009 and 18% in 2008, and we expect to experience additional growth in 2010. Because our drug discovery and development
activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. In addition, as we attempt to
grow our capabilities with respect to clinical development, regulatory affairs, quality control and sales and marketing, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. We
face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. Moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion
of major pharmaceutical companies into the Boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the Boston
and San Diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. Our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, achieve our research and development
objectives, and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional
anticipated growth. If we are unable to hire qualified personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 

 The loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively impact our business and future growth.  

        Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and
to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. As we expand our capabilities in anticipation of the possible launch of commercial products, a loss of key personnel or a
failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. 

45




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



We
have entered into employment agreements with some individuals and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us.
However, the employment agreements can be terminated by the employee on relatively short notice. The value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time—such as options and
restricted stock—will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers
from other companies. A failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior
management would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. 

 If our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities.  

        We have numerous issued patents and patent applications pending in the United States, as well as foreign counterparts in other
countries. Our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain United States and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our
trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. In particular, we believe that composition-of-matter claims are generally the most
significant patent claims for companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry that focus on small molecule drug candidates that are new chemical compounds. While we currently have patents or
patent applications with composition-of-matter claims for each of our more advanced clinical drug candidates, only a portion of these patents have been granted at this time. We
cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against
competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. 

        Legal
standards relating to the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims in the pharmaceutical field are still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy
regarding the valid breadth of claims in biopharmaceutical patents or the effect of prior art on them. If we are not able to obtain adequate patent protection, our ability to prevent competitors from
making, using and selling similar drugs will be limited. Furthermore, our activities may infringe the claims of patents held by third parties. Defense and prosecution of infringement or other
intellectual property claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of whether or not the outcome is favorable to us.
If the outcome of any such litigation or proceeding were adverse, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, could be required to obtain licenses from third parties or could be
required to cease sales of affected drugs, any of which outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim could adversely affect
our business.  

        Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing,
manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. We currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of
any of our drug candidates. However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly
expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a
material adverse effect on us. If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim
brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately 

46




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



successful
in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. 

 If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected.  


        Our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds.
Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination
or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental,
health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain
workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against
potential liabilities. Due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we have determined that the cost to secure insurance coverage for environmental liability and toxic tort claims
far exceeds the benefits. Accordingly, we do not maintain any insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous
materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or
penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. 

 We have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to Massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current
management or effectuate a business combination involving Vertex.  

        Our corporate charter and by-law provisions, Massachusetts state laws and our stockholder rights plan may discourage
certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of Vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. Our charter provides for staggered terms for the
members of the Board of Directors. Our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of stockholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only
with an 80% stockholder vote. Pursuant to our stockholder rights plan, each share of common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. The rights will not trade separately from the common
stock until, and are exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. We may issue shares
of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be
subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging
in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any stockholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock
without stockholder approval. As a result, stockholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. 

 Our stock price may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control.  

        Market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. From January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009,
our common stock traded between $13.84 and $44.04 per share. The market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology field, has from time to time experienced 

47




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents



significant
price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. The future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such
as: 



•announcements of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drug candidates or those of our
competitors;   
•announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, or capital structuring or financing
activities;   
•technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors;   
•government regulatory action;   
•public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by others;   
•developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters;  
•developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual
property rights;   
•developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or
stocks in general; and   
•general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. 


 Our estimates of our liability under our Kendall Square lease may be inaccurate.  

        We leased a 290,000 square foot facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts in January 2003 for a 15-year term. We
currently are not occupying the entire facility. We have sublease arrangements in place for the remaining rentable square footage of the facility. In determining our obligations under the lease for
the part of the facility that we are not occupying, we have made certain assumptions relating to the time necessary to sublease the space after the expiration of the initial subleases, projected
future sublease rental rates and the anticipated durations of future subleases. Our estimates have changed in the past, and may change in the future, resulting in additional adjustments to the
estimate of liability, and the effect of any such adjustments could be material. 

 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        This Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the description of our Business set forth in Item 1, the
Risk Factors set forth in this Item 1A and our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 contain or incorporate a number
of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including
statements regarding: 



•our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for
telaprevir, VX-770, VX-809, VX-509, VX-222, VX-765 and other drug candidates under development by us and our collaborators, including our
intention to submit an NDA for telaprevir in the United States in the second half of 2010, the potential of submitting an NDA for VX-770 in the second half of 2011 and the potential
commercial launch of telaprevir in the United States in 2011;   
•our expectations regarding the expected date by which SVR data will be available and/or publicly announced for our
ADVANCE, REALIZE and ILLUMINATE trials, and our expectations regarding the number of patients that will be evaluated, the trial design that will be utilized, the anticipated date by which enrollment
will be completed and the expected date 

48




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents




interim
data and/or final data will be available and/or publicly announced for our ongoing clinical trials in the ENDEAVOR registration program for VX-770, including the STRIVE, ENVISION
and DISCOVER trials, and for the planned and ongoing clinical trials of VX-809, VX-222, VX-509, VX-765 and other drug candidates under development by
us;  



•expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, our costs and expenses and other
gains and losses, including those related to the intangible assets associated with the ViroChem acquisition and to the liabilities we recorded in connection with the financial transactions that we
entered into in September 2009;   
•our belief that if we are able to successfully commercialize telaprevir in accordance with current development timelines,
we will begin receiving cash flows from the sale of telaprevir in 2011;   
•the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials, and the ability to use that data for the design
and initiation of further clinical trials and to support regulatory filings, including potentially applications for marketing approval for telaprevir and VX-770;  
•our plan to begin clinical evaluation of novel combination regimens of telaprevir with VX-222 in the first
quarter of 2010, and the possibility that we will begin evaluation of combination regimens of VX-770 and VX-809 in patients with CF in the second half of 2010;  
•our expectations regarding the future market demand and medical need for telaprevir and our other drug candidates;  
•our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug
candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment of those drug candidates;   
•our ability to successfully market telaprevir and VX-770 or any of our other drug candidates if we are able to
obtain regulatory approval;   
•the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to invest significant
resources in telaprevir and our other drug candidates;   
•the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;   
•potential business development activities, including with respect to our JAK3 program;   
•our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and
significant unmet medical needs;   
•our expectation that holders of our 2013 Notes will convert the 2013 Notes into shares of our common stock;  
•our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts; and  
•our liquidity and our expectations regarding our needs for and ability to raise additional capital. 


        Any
or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make
or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no
forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "Risk Factors"
above in this Item 1A. These are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors and uncertainties besides those
listed there could also adversely affect us. 

49




 

<A
HREF="#bg74101a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Without
limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are
a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control,
including the factors and uncertainties set forth under "Risk Factors" above in this Item 1A. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the
date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we
specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.  

<A
NAME="ck74101_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B