ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        


 RISK FACTORS  

        Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and
uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks or
uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.  

 Risks Related to Our Business  

 We depend heavily on the success in the United States of our lead drug candidate, telaprevir, which has not yet been approved by the FDA. If we experience material delays in
obtaining or are unable to obtain marketing approval for telaprevir our business will be materially harmed.  

        We believe that a significant portion of the value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of
telaprevir, which has not yet been approved by the FDA. The FDA has substantial discretion in deciding whether or not telaprevir should be granted approval based on the benefits and risks of
telaprevir-based therapies in the treatment of genotype 1 HCV infection. In November 2010, we submitted our NDA for telaprevir to the FDA. In January 2011, we were granted priority review
designation for the telaprevir NDA from the FDA. Although the FDA's goal is to complete its review of NDA submissions granted priority review designation in the six-month period following
the initial submission of the NDA, or by May 23, 2011 in the case of the telaprevir, the FDA is not under any legal obligation to complete its review within this timeframe. The granting of
priority review designation for our NDA does not ensure that our NDA for telaprevir will be approved. 


        Obtaining
approval to market telaprevir in a timely manner will depend on many factors, including the following: 



•whether or not the FDA determines that the evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, other
clinical trials and nonclinical studies of telaprevir demonstrates that telaprevir is safe and effective as a treatment for genotype 1 HCV infection;   
•whether or not the FDA is satisfied that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls for telaprevir are adequate,
that the labeling is satisfactory and that plans for post-marketing studies, safety monitoring and risk evaluation and mitigation are sufficient; and   
•the timing and nature of the FDA's comments and questions regarding the NDA for telaprevir, the scheduling and
recommendations of any advisory committee meeting to consider telaprevir, the time required to respond to the FDA's comments and questions and to obtain the final labeling for telaprevir and any other
delays that may be associated with the NDA review process. 


        If
we experience material delays in obtaining marketing approval for telaprevir in the United States, we will not receive product revenues during the delay and may be at a competitive
disadvantage if Merck's potentially competitive HCV protease inhibitor boceprevir is approved significantly before telaprevir. Any such delay may materially harm our product revenues and cash flows.
If we do not obtain approval to market telaprevir in the United States, our business will be materially harmed. 

 In order to execute our business plan and achieve profitability, we need to effectively commercialize telaprevir.  

        We can not be sure that telaprevir will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market even if we and Janssen gain marketing
approval for telaprevir in a timely manner. In addition to the other challenges related to a company launching its first commercial drug, we may face competition from
Merck & Co., Inc., which is developing boceprevir, a potentially competitive HCV protease inhibitor. In January 2011, Merck announced that it had received priority review
designation from the 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



FDA
for its NDA for boceprevir. As a result, we expect that boceprevir will be reviewed by the FDA on a very similar timeline to telaprevir and may be approved prior to telaprevir. 


        We
expect that the initial commercial success of telaprevir will depend on many factors, including the following: 



•the efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use, side-effect profile and cost of co-therapies of
telaprevir-based treatment regimens relative to competitive treatment regimens, including boceprevir-based treatment regimens if boceprevir is approved;   
•the relative timing of marketing approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for telaprevir and
boceprevir;   
•the effectiveness of our commercial strategy for the launch and marketing of telaprevir, including our pricing strategy
and the effectiveness of our efforts to obtain adequate third-party reimbursements;   
•the number of patients with genotype 1 HCV infection, including treatment-naïve patients and
patients who did not achieve an SVR with prior treatment, who seek treatment;   
•maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for telaprevir with third-party
manufacturers to ensure they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the FDA, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities;  
•our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of telaprevir;   
•our ability to increase awareness of the benefits of early treatment of HCV infection and to increase the rates of
diagnosis and subsequent treatment of currently undiagnosed patients with genotype 1 HCV infection;   
•the acceptance of telaprevir by patients, the medical community and third-party payors; and   
•the effect of new health care legislation currently being implemented in the United States. 


        While
we believe that telaprevir will have a commercially competitive profile, we cannot accurately predict the amount of revenue that will be generated if telaprevir receives regulatory
approval. If we do not effectively commercialize telaprevir, we will not be able to execute our business plan and may not be able to achieve profitability. If our revenues, market share and/or other
indicators of market acceptance of telaprevir do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 

 Even if we or our collaborators gain regulatory approval for any of our drug candidates, if our recently established sales and marketing capabilities or our third-party
relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates are not effective, our drug candidates may not be successfully commercialized.  

        We have no experience as a company in marketing drugs or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for
drugs. In 2010, we significantly expanded our commercial organization in the United States in order to prepare to market telaprevir and are establishing a commercial organization in Canada. We have
entered into collaborations that provide our collaborators the right to market telaprevir outside of North America. We will need to expand our capabilities and/or enter into additional arrangements
with third parties to sell and market our other drug candidates if they are approved for sale. To the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drugs, any revenues we receive from
sales of any approved drugs in locations where our collaborators have rights will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of these collaborators, which we do not control and may not be
able to effectively influence. If our recently established sales and marketing 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



capabilities
or our third-party relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates are not effective, our business could be materially harmed. 

 We are investing significant resources in our development program for VX-770, based primarily on data from a relatively small clinical trial in which patients
received VX-770 over a short duration. If we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of VX-770, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed.  


        We have increased the resources that we are investing in the development of VX-770 and are conducting a registration
program for VX-770 focused on patients with CF who have the G551D mutation. We initiated this registration program based primarily on data from a Phase 2a clinical trial of
VX-770 in 39 patients with CF, in which patients received VX-770 over 14-day and 28-day periods. This is a relatively small number of patients from
which to project the final outcomes of a drug development program. In order to receive approval for VX-770, we will need to
show that VX-770 is safe and effective in a larger number of patients than were involved in the Phase 2a clinical trial, over significantly longer dosing periods. In addition, our
registration program for VX-770 includes pediatric patient populations in which VX-770 has not previously been studied. Since a substantial portion of the CF population is
under age 18, VX-770's potential commercial success will be dependent not only on marketing approval for adult patients, but also on approval for pediatric patients. If we are unable to
show the safety and efficacy of VX-770 in the relevant patient populations, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. 

 We expect to incur future losses, and we may never become profitable.  

        We have incurred significant operating losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $754.6 million,
$642.2 million and $459.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We expect to continue to incur operating losses at least until we are able
to obtain approval in the United States for telaprevir and begin generating product revenues, because we are continuing to invest significant amounts in telaprevir and VX-770, in clinical
development of our earlier-stage drug candidates and in research activities. As a result, we believe it is likely that our expenses will exceed our revenues at least until we begin receiving
substantial product revenues. There can be no assurance that any of our drug candidates will be approved or, if approved, will be commercially successful. There also can be no assurance that we will
begin generating earnings as a cashflow positive company during 2012. Our net losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets
and working capital. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. We can not provide assurance that
we will ever become profitable. 

 If any of our drug candidates receive regulatory approval, the approved drug will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with
continuing United States and applicable foreign regulations, any approved drug could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business would be seriously harmed.  

        If we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for any of our drug candidates in development including telaprevir and VX-770,
we and our collaborators will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results reported after approval. Drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has
been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical
studies. In addition, the manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities we engage to make any of our approved drugs also will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA and applicable
foreign regulatory authorities. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, a manufacturer or manufacturing facility may result in restrictions on the drug, a 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



manufacturer
or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market, inability to use the facility to make our drug or a determination that drug inventories are not safe for
commercial sale. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory
approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. 

 Our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be
successful.  

        The success of our business depends primarily upon successful development and commercialization of our drug candidates. Our drug
candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for sale.
To satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. These discovery and development
efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including follow-on compounds and/or new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug
candidate. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: 



•offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs;   
•be proven safe and effective in clinical trials;   
•meet applicable regulatory standards;   
•be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or   
•if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. 


        In
addition to our registration program for VX-770, we have ongoing Phase 2a clinical trials for a number of our earlier-stage drug candidates, including a clinical
trial of telaprevir/VX-222-based treatment regimens in patients with genotype 1 HCV infection, a clinical trial of VX-809 in combination with
VX-770 in patients with the most common CF mutation, a clinical trial of VX-509 in patients with moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis and a clinical
trial of VX-765 in patients with epilepsy. While we are heavily dependent on obtaining approval for telaprevir and the success of our registration program for VX-770, the
strength of our company's pipeline of drug candidates, including drug candidates that could potentially be complementary to telaprevir and/or VX-770, will depend in large part upon the
outcomes of these ongoing Phase 2a clinical trials. Findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials as well as results of our
clinical trials could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program.
Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. 

        We
and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in
earlier-stage clinical trials. Accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our
drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. In addition, from time to time we
report interim data from our clinical trials, including, with respect to our HCV drug candidates, data regarding patients' HCV RNA levels during treatment, at the completion of treatment or
12 weeks after completion of treatment. Interim data are subject to change, and there can be no assurances that interim data will be confirmed upon the analysis of final data. 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates.  

        Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical evaluation, manufacturing
and commercialization. Rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in most other countries prior to the
commercial sale of drug candidates. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that
none of the drug candidates we are developing will be approved for marketing. 


        We
have limited experience in conducting and managing the late-stage clinical trials and NDA process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA.
The time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the FDA and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. Our analysis of data obtained from
nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter
unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials
and FDA regulatory review. 

        Any
delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory
approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. Any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the
drug. 

        We
also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party
reimbursement. The foreign
regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. Approval by
the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the FDA. Foreign jurisdictions may have
different approval procedures than those required by the FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. 

 We depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture materials for clinical trials and expect to continue to rely on them to meet our
commercial supply needs for any drug candidate that is approved for sale, including telaprevir. We may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of
our control.  

        We rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials, and
we expect that we will continue to rely on third parties for the foreseeable future to meet our commercial supply needs for any of our drug candidates that are approved for sale, including telaprevir.
As a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our drug candidates, we could be subject to significant supply
disruptions outside of our control. Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. Third-party
contract manufacturers, including some in China, supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the European Union and the United States convert these raw materials into drug substance
and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. Establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous
third-party contractual relationships. Although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. There can
be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain commercial supply chains on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in order to support the launch of telaprevir or any of our other
drug candidates. 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        We
will require a supply of telaprevir for sale in North America if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. We currently are exercising our contractual rights from our
third-party manufacturers to provide a supply to Janssen and Mitsubishi Tanabe of telaprevir and/or materials required to manufacture telaprevir. We have completed the transfer of technical
information regarding the manufacture of telaprevir to Janssen so that Janssen will be able to manufacture telaprevir for sale in Janssen's territories, if telaprevir is approved in any of these
territories, and as a secondary supply source of drug substance for us. We believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to
manufacture and distribute telaprevir. We also believe that supply of materials that can not be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning. However, there is a risk that we may
underestimate or overestimate demand, and the manufacturing capacity for which we planned and contracted with third-party manufacturers may not be sufficient or
may result in more inventory than is necessary. In addition, because of the significant lead times involved in our supply chain for telaprevir, we may have less flexibility to adjust our supply in
response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times. 

        We
require a supply of VX-770 for clinical trials in North America and Europe, and we will require a supply of VX-770 for sale in North America and international
markets if we obtain marketing approval for this drug candidate. We obtain VX-770 to meet our clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturing network and are in the process of
validating the manufacturing processes that will be required to produce VX-770, if approved, at a commercial scale. We are in the process of expanding our existing relationships with our
third-party manufacturers and establishing new relationships with third-party manufacturers, in order to establish the supply chain for VX-770 that would be required to support a
commercial launch of VX-770. 

        Even
if we successfully establish arrangements with third-party manufacturers, supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor
or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. 

        Any
supply disruptions could disrupt the timing of our clinical trials and the commercial launch of any approved drugs. Furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods
to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for commercial launch and sale. These modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party
manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. If any of our drug candidates are approved for sale, we similarly may be at risk of supply chain disruption
for our commercial drug supply. In addition, holders of exclusivity for orphan drugs, which we expect to hold for VX-770 if it is approved, are expected to assure the availability of
sufficient quantities of their orphan drugs to meet the needs of patients. Failure to do so could result in the withdrawal of marketing exclusivity for the orphan drug. 

        In
the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either
independently or jointly with us. This would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products manufactured by other
suppliers utilizing the same process. 

 If clinical trials for a drug candidate are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected drug candidate could be extended, our costs to develop the drug
candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected.  

        We can not predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will
cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, 

35




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



or
delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: 



•ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials
and the number of clinical trials we must conduct;   
•delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that
meet the eligibility criteria for the trial;   
•a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials;   
•the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical
investigator error;   
•inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our
clinical trials;   
•unfavorable FDA or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or
its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation;   
•unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials of our drug candidates;   
•serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical
trials;   
•favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval of our
competitors' drug candidates; or   
•action by the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold on a trial. 


        Our
ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population,
the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing
for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. In addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical
evaluation after treatment ends, and this could possibly impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. Delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result
in increased costs and longer development times. 

        We,
our collaborators, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients
participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug
candidate and our business. 

        In
addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether FDA or other applicable regulatory authority regulations, guidance or interpretations
will be changed, or what
the impact of such changes, if any, may be. If we experience any such problems, we may not continue development of the drug candidate that is affected. 

36






<A
NAME="page_ck44001_1_37"> 



































  
Table of Contents 

 Government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. If they fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates
for our future drugs, our revenues and prospects for profitability will be harmed.  

        In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from
third-party payors. Third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Governments and other
third-party payors generally seek to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other
pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement
similar governmental control. In the United States, the recently enacted PPACA will significantly affect the pharmaceutical industry. The PPACA will require discounts under the Medicare drug benefit
program and increases the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by Medicaid. In addition, the PPACA imposes an annual fee, which will increase annually, on sales by branded
pharmaceutical manufacturers starting in 2011. The financial impact of these discounts, increased rebates and fees and the other provisions of the PPACA on our business is unclear and there can be no
assurance that our business will not be materially adversely affected by the PPACA. 

        In
addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that
they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. We might need to conduct post-marketing
studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and
financial and other resources. Our future drugs might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price
levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

        Reimbursement
rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are
already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate
these rates. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs. While we are implementing policies in an effort to comply with mandated
reimbursement rates, the federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have
overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. Any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and the commercial success of any of our drug candidates approved for sale. 

        Any
legislation, or similar regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, also could reduce the net price we receive for our marketed
drugs. 

        We
have no experience as a company with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. If our capabilities and policies in this are not effective, any
future drugs may not be commercially successful and our business could be materially harmed. 

 Healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent our drug candidates' commercial success.  

        The United States federal government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. Any
additional government-adopted reform measures could adversely affect the pricing of healthcare products, including any of our drug candidates approved for sale, in the United States or internationally
and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. The continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, 

37




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



managed
care organizations and other payors for healthcare products to contain or reduce healthcare costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices we believe are fair for any drugs we may
develop and commercialize. 

        New
laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for
drugs, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment
may change in the future and become more challenging due to several reasons, including policies advanced by the U.S. government, new healthcare legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government
health administration authorities. Specifically, in both the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change
the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell any of our drug candidates that are approved for sale. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced
reimbursement rates for our drug candidates, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. For example, in March 2010, the PPACA, a legislative overhaul of the
U.S. healthcare system, was enacted into law, which may have far reaching consequences for biopharmaceutical companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made
to the current system for paying for healthcare in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a
large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursement. If reimbursement for our approved drug candidates, if any, is
substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. 


        Further
federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms could limit the prices that can be charged for the drug candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial
opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the PPACA, by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future
legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. 

 We expect that results from our and our collaborators' clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be
released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock.  

        Any new information regarding our drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates, and in particular any new
information regarding telaprevir and potentially competitive HCV drug candidates, can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. We, our collaborators and our
competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. These periodic updates often
include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us, our collaborators or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings
and submissions as well as future clinical development of our drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates. The timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug
development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by when we receive data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical
data and other information during medical conferences. In addition, because clinical trials of drug candidates for the treatment of HCV infection often occur over more than one year, the information
that we, our collaborators and our competitors disclose about these trials may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not
accurately reflect final results. 

38




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 If our competitors bring superior drugs to market or bring their drugs to market before we do, we may be unable to find a market for our drug candidates.  

        Any drug we develop may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the market or new drugs that may be
developed by others. There are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. In order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved
safety, efficacy and ease of manufacturing and gain market acceptance over competing drugs that may receive regulatory approval before or after our drug candidates, and over those that currently are
marketed. Many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as Merck, Bristol-Myers Squibb, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, Roche, Amgen, Novartis and Johnson & Johnson, possess
substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting nonclinical
testing and human clinical trials of drug candidates, scaling up manufacturing operations and obtaining regulatory approvals of drugs and manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, our competitors may
succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for drugs more rapidly than we do. If we obtain regulatory approval and launch commercial sales of our drug candidates, we also will compete with respect to
manufacturing efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. 

        In
particular, a significant number of companies are focused on developing treatments for genotype 1 HCV infection. In addition to the initial competition that we may face from
Merck's boceprevir, we are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for HCV infection including HCV protease inhibitors, HCV polymerase inhibitors, HCV NS5A inhibitors and
advanced interferons. Although drug development is a lengthy process and involves a high degree of risk, at some point during the next several years one or more of these earlier-stage drug candidates
may be approved by the FDA. As a result, the longer-term commercial prospects for telaprevir will depend on, among other factors: 



•the efficacy, safety and other characteristics of telaprevir relative to future treatments for HCV infection;  
•our ability to establish telaprevir as a significant component of any oral combination or shorter duration therapies that
may be approved as a treatment for HCV infection; and   
•the timing of marketing approvals for drugs being developed by our competitors, including in particular any other protease
inhibitors, including Merck's boceprevir, and any oral combination or shorter duration therapies. 


As
a result, even if we are initially successful in commercializing telaprevir, it is possible that one or more competing therapies could be approved with a better safety and efficacy profile, which
we believe could negatively impact telaprevir sales. 

 If physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our future drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues, if any.  


        Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, our approved drugs may not gain market acceptance among physicians and
patients. We believe that effectively marketing telaprevir, if it is approved, and our other drug candidates, if any of them are approved, will require substantial efforts, both prior to launch and
after approval. Physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: 



•lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs;   
•prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects;   
•lack of cost-effectiveness; 

39




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors;   
•a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies that have significant perceived advantages over our drug
candidates;   
•convenience and ease of administration;   
•other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and   
•ineffective marketing and distribution support. 


        If
our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. 

 If our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to delays in submitting NDAs or restrictions on marketing of drugs after
they have been approved.  

        We are developing drug candidates for regulatory approval for the first time since our inception, and have been implementing regulated
processes and systems required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. Certain of these processes and systems for conducting clinical trials and manufacturing material were
required to be compliant with regulatory requirements before we applied for regulatory approval for telaprevir. These processes and systems will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection
by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. If compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our
drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. In addition, any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing
processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or
criminal penalties or a refusal by the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which
could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and
maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. If our collaborators or third-party
manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, or may even risk withdrawal,
which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 We depend on our collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize some of our drug candidates.  

        We have granted development and commercialization rights for telaprevir to Janssen (worldwide other than North America and Far East)
and to Mitsubishi Tanabe (Far East). We expect to receive meaningful regulatory, technical, manufacturing and commercial contributions to the telaprevir program from Janssen and will be entitled to
royalties from any sales of telaprevir, if approved, in Janssen's territories. The success of our telaprevir program is dependent upon the continued support that Janssen has agreed to provide, and
Janssen has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that it will apply to the collaboration. 

        The
risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: 



•Our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our
agreement with Janssen, termination without cause. Any such termination by Janssen could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or delay the development and commercial sale of
telaprevir in Janssen's territories. 

40




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•Our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient
resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following
mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of some of our drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease
or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those drug candidates.   
•Any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may
pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties.   
•Collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with
the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. 


        Janssen
is seeking approval from the EMA to market telaprevir in the European Union. The regulatory process in the European Union is similar to the process in the United States, but
typically takes longer to complete. If Janssen experiences material delays in obtaining marketing approval for telaprevir in its territories, we will not receive royalty revenues during the delay. If
Janssen is unable to obtain approvals to market telaprevir in its territory, we will not receive royalty payments from telaprevir sales in Janssen's territories, which could materially harm our cash
flows. 

 Our investment in the clinical development and manufacture of a commercial supply of telaprevir may not result in any benefit to us if telaprevir is not approved for
commercial sale.  

        Telaprevir is the first drug candidate that we expect to commercialize in a major market. We are planning for and investing significant
resources in order to seek marketing approval for telaprevir, to build our commercial supply inventories of drug product, and to complete our scale-up of sales and marketing capacity. Our
costs to obtain a commercial supply of telaprevir have included approximately $63 million, $20 million and $17 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our engagement in
these resource-intensive activities puts significant investment at risk if we do not obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize telaprevir in North America. There is no assurance that
our development of telaprevir will lead successfully to regulatory approval, or that obtaining regulatory approval will lead to commercial success of telaprevir. If telaprevir is not approved for
commercial sale or if its development is delayed for any reason, our full investment in telaprevir may be at risk, we may face significant costs to dispose of unusable inventory, and our business and
financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 

 We may need to raise additional capital that may not be available.  

        We expect to incur substantial expenses as we design and develop existing and future compounds, undertake clinical trials, seek
regulatory approvals and build our drug supply, regulatory, development and commercial capabilities. We also expect to incur substantial administrative and commercialization expenses. As a result, we
may raise additional capital beyond our current resources. We anticipate that we would finance any additional cash needs with some combination of: 



•public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities, asset-backed borrowings or other methods of
financing;   
•cash received from existing and future collaborative agreements; and   
•future product sales. 


        We
believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. We may, however, raise
additional capital through public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities. Any such capital 

41




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

transactions
may or may not be similar to the transactions that we have completed in the past. Any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could
result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends—although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable
future. Any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to
curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds
through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. Based on many factors, including general economic
conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 

 We may not be successful in developing either of the HCV polymerase inhibitors we acquired in our acquisition of ViroChem and, as a result, we may not realize any benefits
from this acquisition and could be subject to significant impairment charges in future periods.  

        In March 2009, we acquired ViroChem Pharma Inc., or ViroChem, for $100.0 million in cash and 10.7 million shares
of our common stock. We acquired ViroChem primarily in order to secure rights to two HCV polymerase inhibitors, VX-222 and VX-759, as part of our strategy to pursue drug
candidates that could potentially be developed in combination with telaprevir and/or our earlier- stage drug candidates. VX-222 and VX-759 were still in Phase 1 clinical
development at the time of the acquisition and have only been evaluated in nonclinical studies and in a limited number of patients infected with HCV. While we believe the data from the clinical trials
and nonclinical studies to date support the development of combination therapies, there are numerous reasons why we may not be able to successfully develop a combination therapy involving either
VX-222 or VX-759, including: 



•data from trials involving drug candidates evaluated separately may not predict possible outcomes, such as unforeseen drug
interactions, from drug candidates dosed in combination, which could negatively impact the efficacy and safety profile of the combination product candidate;   
•positive results in small clinical trials and nonclinical studies may not be predictive of results in clinical trials
involving large numbers of patients; and   
•favorable results of testing or earlier FDA or foreign regulatory approval of competitors' products. 


There
can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop either VX-222 or VX-759 alone or in combination with telaprevir or our other HCV protease inhibitors, and
if we are not successful in developing VX-222 or VX-759, we may not realize any benefits from our acquisition of ViroChem. 


        At
the time of acquisition, we allocated $525.9 million to intangible assets related to the in-process research and development associated with the ViroChem drug
candidates. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded expense of $7.2 million in connection with an impairment of the intangible assets related to VCH-286, a drug candidate for the
treatment of HIV infection that we acquired from ViroChem. At December 31, 2010, our consolidated balance sheet included $518.7 million of intangible assets related to
in-process research and development, approximately 80% of which related to VX-222 and approximately 20% of which related to VX-759. If the value of these drug
candidates, and in particular VX-222, becomes impaired, we may incur significant impairment charges, including potentially the entire amount of the intangible assets reflected on our
consolidated balance sheet associated with the drug candidate, in the period in which the impairment becomes known. An impairment could result from, among other things, unfavorable safety or efficacy
results from clinical trials or nonclinical studies or competitive factors affecting the potential market for the drug candidate. VX-759, which is considered a backup compound to
VX-222, could be impaired by data pertaining to the potential successful development of VX-222, which could result in a significant impairment charge 

42




 


<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



in
the period in which that determination is made. If we incur a significant impairment charge in a future period related to the intangible assets acquired in the ViroChem transaction, the value of
our common stock could decrease. 

 We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the
completion of such trials.  

        We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as
contract research organizations to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. Our
reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or
may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected
deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of
the affected trial. If clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely
affect the conduct or progress of these trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a trial be redone. Accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and
commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. 

 Issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline.  

        As of December 31, 2010, we had 203.5 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. As of December 31,
2010, we also had outstanding options to purchase 21.3 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $30.50 per share and 8.2 million shares of common stock
issuable upon conversion of our outstanding convertible senior subordinated notes due 2015, or 2015 Notes, at a conversion price of approximately $48.83 per share. Outstanding vested options are
likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price. In addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part
of our financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open
market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any
outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. 

 Outstanding indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests.  

        We are obligated to repay an aggregate of $155.0 million for our secured notes due 2012, or the 2012 Notes, no later than
October 31, 2012, and an aggregate of $400.0 million for our 2015 Notes no later than October 1, 2015. We also are obligated to make
semi-annual interest payments on the outstanding principal amount of the 2015 Notes. We may issue additional convertible debt or incur other types of indebtedness in the future. The level
of our indebtedness could affect us by: 



•making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service
requirements or other purposes;   
•constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the
pharmaceutical industry; or   
•requiring the dedication of substantial cash to service the repayment of any outstanding debt, including periodic interest
payments, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. 

43




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents






 If we acquire or license technologies, resources or drug candidates, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize benefits from the transaction.  


        If appropriate opportunities become available, we might attempt to license or acquire technologies, resources and drugs or drug
candidates, including potentially complimentary HCV therapies. Even if we complete a license or other transaction, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction or we may incur
impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. Future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the
creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. 


 Our drug development efforts are data-driven and therefore potentially subject to abrupt changes in expected outcomes.  

        Small molecule drug discovery and development involve, initially, the identification of chemical compounds that may have promise as
treatments for specific diseases. Once identified as drug candidates, compounds are subjected to years of testing in a laboratory setting, in animals and in humans. Our ultimate objective is to
determine whether the drug candidates have physical characteristics, both intrinsically and in animal and human systems, and a toxicological profile, that are compatible with clinical and commercial
success in the treatment of the disease being targeted. Throughout this process, experiments are conducted and data are gathered that could reinforce a decision to move to the next step in the
investigation process for a particular drug candidate, could result in uncertainty over the proper course to pursue or could result in the termination of further drug development efforts with respect
to the compound being evaluated. We monitor the results of our discovery research and our nonclinical studies and clinical trials and regularly evaluate and re-evaluate our portfolio
investments with the objective of balancing risk and potential return in view of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights. This process can result in relatively abrupt changes in
focus and priority as new information comes to light and we gain additional insights into ongoing programs and potential new programs. 


 We may not have the resources to develop and commercialize all the drug candidates for which we have rights, and we may not be able to attract collaborators for the
development and commercialization of these drug candidates.  

        As part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements. We have a number of research programs and
early-stage and mid-stage clinical development programs. Depending on how these programs progress, we may not have the funding and/or the personnel to continue the development and
commercialization of all of these programs internally. We will need to expand our internal capabilities and/or enter into new arrangements with third parties to sell and market any of our drug
candidates, other than telaprevir, if the are approval for sale. At any time, we may make the determination that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully
commercialize a future approved drug we need to identify a collaborator. Potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug
development program led by us, or agree to provide all the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. No assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek
additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. If we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development
programs could be delayed or terminated, and any future drug may not be commercially successful and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. 

44






<A
NAME="page_cm44001_1_45"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

 Risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business.  

        We have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships, and we and our collaborators are seeking approval for our drug
candidates, outside the United States. In addition, we expect that if telaprevir is approved for commercial sale, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw
materials and manufacturing, will be located in China, Japan and the European Union. We are planning to expand our operations in Canada in order to market telaprevir, if approved, in that country, and
may seek to expand our commercial operations in Europe in order to market VX-770 internationally, if approved. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to
operating in foreign countries. Risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: 



•differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;   
•unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;   
•economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;  
•compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;  
•foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;   
•foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other
obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country;   
•workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;  
•production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and  
•business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. 


        These
and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. 

 If we fail to expand our human resources, and manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer.  


        We expect we may require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources. Recently we have built out
the commercial organization that will be responsible for the commercial launch of telaprevir in the United States, if it receives marketing approval. The number of our employees increased by 18% in
2010 and 6% in 2009, and we expect to experience additional growth in 2011. Because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly
qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. In addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. We face intense
competition for our personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. Moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major
pharmaceutical companies into the Boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the Boston and San
Diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. Our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, and achieve our research and development
objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. If we are unable to hire qualified
personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 

45




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 The loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively impact our business and future growth.  

        Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and
to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. As we expand our capabilities in anticipation of the possible launch of commercial products, a loss of key personnel or a
failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. We have entered into employment agreements with some individuals and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees
that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. However, the employment agreements can be terminated by the employee on relatively short notice. The value to employees of
stock-related benefits that vest over time—such as options and restricted stock—will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we can not control, and may
at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. A failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient
number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. 


 If our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities.  

        We have numerous issued patents and patent applications pending in the United States, as well as foreign counterparts in other
countries. Our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain United States and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our
trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. In particular, we believe that composition-of-matter claims are generally the most
significant patent claims for companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry that focus on small molecule drug candidates that are new chemical compounds. While we have patents or patent
applications with composition-of-matter claims for each of our more advanced clinical drug candidates, only a portion of these patents have been granted at this time. We can
not be certain that any patents will issue from our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against
competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. 

        Legal
standards relating to the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims in the pharmaceutical field are still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy
regarding the valid breadth of claims in biopharmaceutical patents or the effect of prior art on them. If we are not able to obtain adequate patent protection, our ability to prevent competitors from
making, using and selling similar drugs will be limited. Furthermore, our activities may infringe the claims of patents held by third parties. Defense and prosecution of infringement or other
intellectual property claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of whether or not the outcome is favorable to us.
If the outcome of any such litigation or proceeding were adverse, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, could be required to obtain licenses from third parties or could be
required to cease sales of affected drugs, any of which outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim could adversely affect
our business.  

        Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing,
manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. We have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our
drug candidates. However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming 

46




 


<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



increasingly
expensive. As a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that
could have a material adverse effect on us. If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting
from a claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial
resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. 

 If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected.  

        Our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds.
Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination
or injury from these materials can not be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We also are subject to numerous environmental,
health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain
workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against
potential liabilities. Due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we have determined that the cost to secure insurance coverage for environmental liability and toxic tort claims
far exceeds the benefits. Accordingly, we do not maintain any insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous
materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or
penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. 

 We have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to Massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current
management or effectuate a business combination involving Vertex.  

        Our corporate charter and by-law provisions, Massachusetts state laws and our shareholder rights plan may discourage
certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of Vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. Our charter provides for staggered terms for the
members of the Board of Directors. Our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only
with an 80% shareholder vote. Pursuant to our shareholder rights plan, each share of common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. The rights will not trade separately from the common
stock until, and are exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. We may issue shares
of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be
subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging
in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock
without shareholder approval. As a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. 

47




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents


 Our stock price may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control.  

        Market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. From January 1, 2009 to December 31, 2010,
our common stock traded between $25.94 and $44.24 per share. The market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology field, has from time to time experienced significant price and
volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. The future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such
as: 



•announcements of FDA actions with respect to regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors or of
results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drug candidates or those of our competitors;   
•announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, including, if we obtain approval for
telaprevir, product revenues during the initial period after telaprevir's commercial launch, or capital structuring or financing activities;   
•technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors;   
•government regulatory action;   
•public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by others;   
•developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters;  
•developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual
property rights;   
•developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or
stocks in general; and   
•general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. 


 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        This Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the description of our Business set forth in Item 1, the
Risk Factors set forth in this Item 1A and our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 contain or incorporate a number
of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including
statements regarding: 



•our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for
telaprevir, VX-770, VX-222, VX-809, VX-509, VX-765, including our expectations regarding regulatory authorities' timelines for review of our
NDA submission for telaprevir in the United States, our New Drug Submission for telaprevir in Canada, and Janssen's MAA for telaprevir in the European Union, and the possibility that we could submit
an NDA and an MAA for VX-770 in the second half of 2011;   
•our belief that if we are successful in obtaining approval for telaprevir by the May 23, 2011 target date for the
FDA to complete its review, we would be able to begin marketing telaprevir in the United States in mid-2011;   
•our statements regarding the possibility that could begin generating earnings as a cashflow positive company in 2012;  
•our ability to successfully market telaprevir and VX-770 or any of our other drug candidates if we are able to
obtain regulatory approval; 

48




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drug candidates, including telaprevir,
VX-770, VX-222, VX-509 and VX-765 and combinations of telaprevir with VX-222 and VX-770 with VX-809, and the timing
of our receipt of data from our VX-770 registration program and of data from our other clinical trials;   
•expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other
gains and losses, including those related to potential product revenues and royalty revenues from sales of telaprevir, to potential milestone payments from Janssen, to the intangible assets associated
with the ViroChem acquisition and to the liabilities we recorded in connection with the September 2009 financial transactions;   
•the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to support
regulatory filings, including potential applications for marketing approval for VX-770;   
•our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug
candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment;   
•the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to continue investing in
our research and development programs and to develop and commercialize selected drug candidates that emerge from those programs, alone or with third-party collaborators;   
•the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;   
•potential business development activities;   
•our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and
significant unmet medical needs;   
•statements regarding the letter of intent that we entered into in January 2011 with respect to the potential lease of a
facility to be built in Boston, Massachusetts;   
•our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts; and  
•our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. 


        Any
or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make
or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no
forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "Risk Factors"
above in this Item 1A. These are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors and uncertainties besides those
listed there could also adversely affect us. 

        Without
limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are
a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control,
including the factors and uncertainties set forth under "Risk Factors" above in this Item 1A. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the
date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we
specifically disclaim 

49




 

<A
HREF="#bg44001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



any
obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.  

<A
NAME="cm44001_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B