ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

Risk Factors  


        Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described
below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by  

30




 


 reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly
materially. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline.

WE EXPECT TO INCUR FUTURE LOSSES, AND WE MAY NEVER BECOME PROFITABLE.  

        We have incurred significant operating losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $391.3 million, $206.9 million and
$203.4 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and expect to incur a significant operating loss in 2008. We believe that operating losses will continue beyond 2008, because we are
planning to make significant investments in research and development and in building commercial supply of telaprevir to prepare for the potential launch of telaprevir, and because we will incur
significant selling, general and administrative expenses in the course of researching, developing and commercializing our drug candidates, particularly telaprevir. We are investing significant
research and development resources across a relatively broad array of therapeutic areas, due in part to the high risks associated with the biotechnology and pharmaceutical business and the relatively
high potential for failure of any specific effort. This diversification strategy requires more significant financial resources
than would be required if we pursued a more limited approach or focused exclusively on telaprevir. In particular, in 2008 we expect to invest significant resources in order to advance the development
of VX-770, VX-809, VX-500, VX-813 and VX-509, and to start clinical trials of one or more additional compounds that are currently emerging from our research activities. Our net losses have had and
will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets and working capital. We expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to
year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. We cannot predict when we will become profitable, if at all. 

WE NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL THAT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE.  

        We expect to incur substantial research and development and related supporting expenses as we design and develop existing and future compounds, undertake clinical
trials of drug candidates resulting from such compounds, and build our drug supply, regulatory, development and commercial capabilities. We also expect to incur substantial administrative and
commercialization expenses in the future. In particular, we expect the continuing development and commercialization of telaprevir to require additional capital beyond our current resources. We are
making significant capital investments in building our drug product supply chain and creating pre-launch inventory and may need to make additional significant capital investments for one
or more of our other drug candidates. We anticipate that we will finance these substantial cash needs with: 



•public
offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities or other methods of financing;
•cash
received from our existing collaborative agreements;
•cash
received from new collaborative agreements or from the sale of existing assets, such as royalty streams from drugs and drug candidates being developed and
commercialized by third parties;
•existing
cash reserves, together with interest earned on those reserves; or
•future
product sales to the extent that we market drugs directly. 



        While
we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with amounts we expect to receive from our collaborators under existing contractual
agreements, would be sufficient to fund our operations through 2008, we will need to raise additional capital in 2008 through public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity
securities, agreements with third-parties with respect to certain of our assets or through other methods of financing in order to continue our operations through 2009. Any such capital
transactions may or may not be similar to transactions in which we have engaged in the past. Any equity financings could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. Any debt
financing may be on terms that, among other things, restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends—although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. If adequate
funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail 

31




 

significantly
or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through
arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable
terms, if at all. 


WE DEPEND HEAVILY ON THE SUCCESS OF OUR LEAD DRUG CANDIDATE, TELAPREVIR, WHICH IS STILL UNDER DEVELOPMENT. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE TELAPREVIR, OR EXPERIENCE DELAYS IN
DOING SO, WE COULD BE REQUIRED TO SEEK ADDITIONAL FINANCING AND OUR BUSINESS WILL BE MATERIALLY HARMED.  

        We are investing a significant portion of our time, personnel and financial resources in the development of telaprevir, and we expect to commence a Phase 3
clinical trial of telaprevir in March 2008. The clinical development and commercial success of telaprevir will depend on several factors, including the following: 



•successful
completion and favorable outcomes of clinical trials;
•ongoing
discussions with the FDA and comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope and design of our clinical trials, the quality of our manufacturing process for
telaprevir and our clinical trial results;
•receipt
and timing of marketing approvals for telaprevir from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities;
•receipt
and timing of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities for products being developed for the treatment of HCV by our competitors;
•our
ability to conduct clinical trials with respect to telaprevir in a timely manner to support a potential application for marketing approval;
•establishing
and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements for telaprevir with third-party manufacturers that are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA;
•launching
commercial sales of telaprevir by us and our collaborators;
•the
efficacy and other characteristics of telaprevir relative to existing and future treatments for HCV; and
•our
ability to increase awareness of the benefits of early treatment for HCV if telaprevir is approved;
•acceptance
of telaprevir, if approved, in the medical community and with third-party payors. 


        If
the data from our ongoing clinical trials or non-clinical studies regarding the safety or efficacy of telaprevir are not favorable, we may be forced to delay or terminate
the clinical development of telaprevir, which would materially harm our business. Further, even if we gain marketing approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in a timely
manner, we cannot be sure that telaprevir will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market. Even if we obtain marketing approval and successfully commercialized telaprevir, we are
investing significant amounts of cash in the development and commercialization process, and any significant delay in realizing a return on the investment would require us to engage in additional
financing activities to recoup that investment, which may not be available on satisfactory terms, if at all. If the results of clinical trials of telaprevir, the anticipated or actual timing of
marketing approvals for telaprevir, or the market acceptance of telaprevir, if approved, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would
likely decline. 

32




 

MANY OF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES ARE STILL IN THE EARLY STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT, AND ALL OF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES REMAIN SUBJECT TO CLINICAL TESTING AND REGULATORY APPROVAL. IF WE ARE
UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP AND TEST OUR DRUG CANDIDATES, WE WILL NOT BE SUCCESSFUL.  

        The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability, and our collaborators' ability, to develop and commercialize our drug candidates, including
telaprevir, successfully. Due to the development efforts of our competitors, in order to develop a successful franchise in a therapeutic area it is often necessary to develop follow-on
compounds and/or develop new combination therapies. Our drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by
the FDA or other regulatory authorities for sale. To satisfy these standards, we and/or our collaborators must allocate our resources among our various development programs and must engage in
expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. These discovery and development efforts for a new pharmaceutical product, including follow-on compounds, are lengthly and resource-intensive, and
may take 10 to 15 years or more. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: 



•offer
therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs;
•be
proven safe and effective in clinical trials;
•meet
applicable regulatory standards;
•be
capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or
•if
approved for commercial sale, be successfully commercialized. 



        Positive
results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from earlier clinical trials
of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. Findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials could result in abrupt
changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a drug candidate. Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level
of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. 


        We
and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising
results in early-stage development. Accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the
results we may obtain in later stage trials, and may not be predictive of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. In addition, from time to time, we report interim data
from our clinical trials, including the PROVE 1 and PROVE 2 clinical trials of telaprevir. Interim data is subject to change as final data are confirmed, and there can be no assurances that interim
data will be confirmed upon the analysis of final data. 

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN UNITED STATES AND/OR FOREIGN REGULATORY APPROVAL, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR DRUG CANDIDATES.  

        Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization.
Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in most other countries prior to the commercial sale of our drug
candidates. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that none of the drug candidates we are
developing independently, or in collaboration with others, will be approved for marketing. 

        We
have limited experience in conducting and managing the late-stage clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. The time
required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the FDA and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. Our analysis of data obtained from preclinical
and clinical activities is subject to 

33




 


confirmation
and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government
regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. 

        Any
delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize any drug candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory
approval to market a drug may be subject to unexpected limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the drug. 

        We
are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party
reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign
requirements. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States. Foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the
FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. 

IF CLINICAL TRIALS FOR OUR DRUG CANDIDATES ARE PROLONGED OR DELAYED, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR DRUG CANDIDATES ON A TIMELY BASIS, WHICH WOULD REQUIRE US TO INCUR
ADDITIONAL COSTS, WOULD DELAY OUR RECEIPT OF ANY PRODUCT REVENUE AND COULD HARM OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION.  

        We cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory
authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug
candidates: 



•ongoing
discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct;
•delays
in receiving or the inability to obtain required approvals from IRBs at one or more of the institutions at which a clinical trial is conducted or other reviewing
entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials;
•delays
in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials;
•a
lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials;
•the
need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or unforeseen complications in testing;
•inadequate
supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials;
•unfavorable
FDA inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any
clinical or preclinical investigation;
•serious
and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or
•the
placement by the FDA of a clinical hold on a trial. 


        Our
ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population,
the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials competing for patients
in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. In addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment
ends, and this could possibly impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. Delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and
longer development times. While all or a portion of these additional 

34




 


costs
may be covered by payments under our collaborative agreements, we bear all of the costs for our development candidates for which we have no financial support from a collaborator. 


        We,
our collaborators, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients
participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. In November 2007, Merck suspended enrollment in clinical trials of MK-0457 (VX-680),
pending a full analysis of all efficacy and safety data of MK-0457 (VX-680). Any such suspension could materially adversely impact the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. 

        In
addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such
changes, if any, may be. If we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is affected or the development of any of our
other drug candidates. 

IF OUR COMPETITORS BRING SUPERIOR DRUGS TO MARKET OR BRING THEIR DRUGS TO MARKET BEFORE WE DO, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO FIND A MARKET FOR OUR DRUG CANDIDATES.  

        Our drug candidates in development may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the market or new drugs that may be developed by
others. No assurances can be given that telaprevir will be approved for marketing prior to competing therapies, or at all. There are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that
we are pursuing in development in particular for the treatment of HCV infection. In order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and ease of
manufacturing and gain market acceptance over competing drugs that may receive regulatory approval before or after our drug candidates, and over those that currently are marketed. Many of our
competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as GlaxoSmithKline, Wyeth, Pfizer, Roche, Amgen, Novartis, Johnson & Johnson and Schering-Plough possess substantially greater
financial, technical and human resources than we possess. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting preclinical and nonclinical testing and
human clinical trials of drug candidates, scaling up manufacturing operations and obtaining regulatory approvals of drugs and manufacturing facilities. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in
obtaining regulatory approval for drugs more rapidly than we do. If we obtain regulatory approval and launch commercial sales of our drug candidates, we also will compete with respect to manufacturing
efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. 

        We
believe that the first company that is able to successfully develop and obtain marketing approval for a new treatment for chronic HCV infection with significant advantages over the
current standard of care may have a significant competitive advantage over later-approved therapies for HCV infection. We are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for HCV
infection including protease inhibitor compounds like telaprevir, polymerase inhibitor compounds and advanced interferons. Even if we are able to obtain marketing approval for telaprevir, it is
possible that one or more of these therapies could be approved prior to or shortly after we obtain such approval for telaprevir, which we believe could negatively impact telaprevir sales. 

IF OUR PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS ARE NOT COMPLIANT WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS, WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO DELAYS IN FILING NDAs OR RESTRICTIONS ON MARKETING OF DRUGS AFTER THEY HAVE
BEEN APPROVED.  

        We currently are developing drug candidates for regulatory approval for the first time since our inception, and are in the process of implementing regulated
processes and systems required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. Certain of these processes and systems for conducting clinical trials and manufacturing material must
be compliant with regulatory requirements before we can apply for regulatory approval for our drug candidates. These processes and systems will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection
by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. If we 

35




 


are
unable to achieve compliance in a timely fashion, or if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory
approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. In addition, any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or
manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of
civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing
and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. If our collaborators or third-party
manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be withdrawn from the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 

IF WE OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVALS, OUR DRUG CANDIDATES WILL BE SUBJECT TO ONGOING REGULATORY REVIEW. IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH CONTINUING UNITED STATES AND APPLICABLE FOREIGN
REGULATIONS, WE COULD LOSE THOSE APPROVALS, AND OUR BUSINESS WOULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED.  

        If we receive regulatory approval of any drug candidates that we are developing, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of
clinical results that are reported after our drug candidates become commercially available, approved drugs. Since drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained, side effects
and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. In addition, the manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities we
engage to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, manufacturers or
manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on the drug, manufacturers or facilities, including withdrawal of the drug from the market or our inability to use the facilities to make our drug.
If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating
restrictions and criminal prosecutions. 

OUR DRUG DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS ARE DATA-DRIVEN AND THEREFORE POTENTIALLY SUBJECT TO ABRUPT CHANGES IN EXPECTED OUTCOMES.  

        Small molecule drug discovery and development involve, initially, the identification of chemical compounds that may have promise as treatments for specific
diseases. Once identified as drug candidates, compounds are subjected to years of testing in a laboratory setting, in animals and in humans. Our ultimate objective is to determine whether the drug
candidates have physical characteristics, both intrinsically and in animal and human systems, and a toxicological profile, that are compatible with clinical and commercial success in treatment of the
disease being targeted. Throughout this process, experiments are conducted and data are gathered that could reinforce a decision to move to the next step in the investigation process for a particular
drug candidate, could result in uncertainty over the proper course to pursue, or could result in the termination of further drug development efforts with respect to the compound being evaluated. We
monitor the results of our discovery research and our nonclinical studies and clinical trials and regularly evaluate and re-evaluate our portfolio investments with the objective of
balancing risk and potential return in view of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights. This process can result in relatively abrupt changes in focus and priority as new information
comes to light and we gain additional insights into ongoing programs and potential new programs. 

36






<A
NAME="page_di46201_1_37"> 






 



WE DEPEND ON OUR COLLABORATORS TO WORK WITH US TO DEVELOP, MANUFACTURE AND COMMERCIALIZE MANY OF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES.  

        We have granted development and commercialization rights to telaprevir to Janssen (worldwide other than North America and Far East) and to Mitsubishi Tanabe (Far
East). We expect to receive significant financial support under our Janssen collaboration agreement, as well as meaningful technical and manufacturing contributions to the telaprevir program. The
success of some of our key in-house programs, such as for telaprevir, is dependent upon the continued financial and other support that our collaborators have agreed to provide. 


        For
some drug candidates on which we are not currently focusing our development efforts, we have granted worldwide rights to a collaborator, as in our collaborations with Merck and
Avalon. 

        The
success of our collaborations depends on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Each of our collaborators has significant discretion in determining the efforts and
resources that it will apply to the collaboration. Our existing collaborations may not be scientifically or commercially successful, and we may fail in our attempts to establish further collaborations
to develop our drug candidates on acceptable terms. 

        The
risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: 



•Our
collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our agreements with Janssen and Merck, termination without
cause. Any such termination could have an adverse material effect on our financial condition and/or delay the development and commercial sale of our drug candidates, including telaprevir.
•Our
collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have
re-evaluated their
development and commercialization priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of some of our drug candidates to reach their
potential could be limited if our collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those drug candidates.
•Our
collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties.
•Our
collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject
of the collaboration with us. 


IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN COLLABORATORS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR DRUGS AND DRUG CANDIDATES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FUND OUR DEVELOPMENT AND
COMMERCIALIZATION ACTIVITIES.  

        Our collaborators have agreed to fund portions of our pharmaceutical development programs and/or to conduct the development and commercialization of specified
drug candidates and, if they are approved, drugs. In exchange, we have given them technology, sales and marketing rights relating to those drugs and drug candidates. Some of our corporate
collaborators have rights to control the planning and execution of drug development and clinical programs including for our aurora kinase inhibitor drug candidates, including MK-0457 (VX-680) and
VX-689, and AVN-944 (VX-944). Our collaborators may exercise their control rights in ways that may negatively affect the timing and success of those programs. Our
collaborations are subject to termination rights by the collaborators. If any of our collaborators were to terminate its relationship with us, or fail to meet its contractual obligations, that action
could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop, manufacture and market any drug candidates being developed under the collaboration. We expect to seek additional collaborative
arrangements, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, to develop and 

37




 


commercialize
our drug candidates in the future. We plan to seek a collaborator for our oral MAP kinase inhibitor VX-702 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory diseases. No
assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful. Even if we are able to establish acceptable collaborative arrangements in the future, these collaborations may not be successful. 

OUR INVESTMENT IN THE CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURE OF A COMMERCIAL SUPPLY OF TELAPREVIR MAY NOT RESULT IN ANY BENEFIT TO US IF TELAPREVIR IS NOT APPROVED FOR COMMERCIAL
SALE.  

        We are investing significant resources in the clinical development of telaprevir. In 2006 and 2007, we increased our investment in telaprevir to support our
Phase 2b clinical development program and in 2008 we will be investing in our global registration program, including our Phase 3 clinical trial. Telaprevir is the first drug candidate
for which we expect to perform all activities related to late stage development, drug supply, registration and commercialization in a major market. We are planning for and investing significant
resources now in preparation for application for marketing approval, commercial supply and sales and marketing. We also expect to incur significant costs in 2008 to manufacture registration batches
and invest in telaprevir commercial supply. Our engagement in these resource-intensive activities could make it more difficult for us to maintain our portfolio focus, and puts significant investment
at risk if we do not obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize telaprevir in North America. There is no assurance that our development of telaprevir will lead successfully to
regulatory approval, or that obtaining regulatory approval will lead to commercial success. If telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale or if its development is delayed for any reason, our full
investment in telaprevir may be at risk, we may face significant costs to dispose of unusable inventory, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 

WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY MANUFACTURERS, INCLUDING SOLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS, TO MANUFACTURE CLINICAL TRIAL MATERIALS FOR CLINICAL TRIALS AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO RELY ON THEM TO
MEET OUR COMMERCIAL SUPPLY NEEDS FOR ANY DRUG CANDIDATE THAT IS APPROVED FOR SALE. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ESTABLISH OR MAINTAIN THESE RELATIONSHIPS AND COULD EXPERIENCE DISRUPTIONS OUTSIDE OF OUR
CONTROL.  

        We currently are relying on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials, and we expect
that we will continue to do so to meet our commercial supply needs for these drugs, including telaprevir, if they are approved for sale. As a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers
and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our drug candidates and drugs, we may be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. 

        We
will be responsible for supplying telaprevir for sale in North America if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. Establishing the commercial supply chain for telaprevir is
a multi-step international endeavor involving the purchase of several raw materials, the application of certain manufacturing processes requiring significant lead times, the conversion of
active pharmaceutical ingredient to tablet form and the packaging of tablets for distribution. We expect to source raw materials, drug substance and drug product, including finished packaging, from
third parties located in China, the European Union, Japan and the United States, and we currently are establishing and expanding those third-party relationships. Establishing and providing quality
assurance for this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment, experienced personnel and the creation or expansion of numerous third-party contractual relationships. While we
believe that there are multiple third parties that are capable of providing the materials and services that we need in order to manufacture and distribute telaprevir, if it is approved for sale, some
of these services are in high demand and capacity is constrained. Because of the significant lead times involved in the manufacture and supply of telaprevir, we may have less flexibility to adjust our
supply in response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish 

38




 


and
maintain this commercial supply chain on commercially reasonable terms in order to support a timely launch of telaprevir or at all. 

        We
plan to identify and enter into commercial relationships with multiple third-party manufacturers in order to reduce the risk of supply chain disruption by limiting our reliance on any
one manufacturer. In addition, we are in the process of transferring technical information regarding the manufacture of telaprevir to Janssen so that Janssen will be able to manufacture telaprevir, if
approved, for sale in Janssen's territories and as a secondary source for us. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to establish second sources for each stage of manufacturing of
telaprevir, or any other drug or drug candidate, or that any second source will be able to produce sufficient quantities in the required timeframe to avoid a supply chain disruption if there is a
problem with one of our suppliers. 

        Even
if we successfully establish arrangements with third-party manufacturers, supply disruptions may result from a number of factors including shortages in product raw materials, labor
or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. 

        Any
supply disruptions could impact the timing of our clinical trials and the commercial launch of any approved pharmaceutical drugs. Furthermore, we may be required to modify our
production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for commercial launch and sale. These modifications may require us to reevaluate our resources and the resources of our
third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. Upon approval of a pharmaceutical drug for sale, if any, we similarly may be at risk of supply
chain disruption for our commercial drug supply. In the course of its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our drug candidates that the
manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. This would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products
manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. 

WE RELY ON THIRD PARTIES TO CONDUCT OUR CLINICAL TRIALS, AND THOSE THIRD PARTIES MAY NOT PERFORM SATISFACTORILY, INCLUDING FAILING TO MEET ESTABLISHED DEADLINES FOR THE
COMPLETION OF SUCH TRIALS.  

        We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations,
medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our
control over these activities. Accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or
our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a
number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. Accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and
commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. 

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP INDEPENDENT SALES AND MARKETING CAPABILITIES OR ESTABLISH THIRD-PARTY RELATIONSHIPS FOR THE COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES, WE WILL NOT BE
ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMMERCIALIZE OUR DRUG CANDIDATES EVEN IF WE ARE ABLE TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL.  

        We currently have limited experience as a company in sales and marketing or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs.
GlaxoSmithKline currently markets Lexiva/Telzir. We will need to either develop marketing capabilities and an independent sales force or enter into arrangements with third parties to sell and market
any of our drug candidates if they are approved for sale by regulatory authorities. 

39




 

        In
order to market telaprevir in North America if it is approved, we intend to build a marketing organization and a direct sales force, which will require substantial efforts and
significant management and financial resources. During 2008, we intend to commit significant personnel and financial resources to this effort, staging our commitments to the extent possible in
consideration of the ongoing telaprevir development timeline. We will need to devote significant effort, in particular, to recruiting individuals with experience in the sales and marketing of
pharmaceutical products. Competition for personnel with these skills is intense and may be particularly difficult for us since telaprevir is still an investigational drug candidate and we will be
competing with companies that are currently marketing successful drugs. As a result, we may not be able to successfully develop our own marketing capabilities or independent sales force for telaprevir
in North America in order to support an effective launch of telaprevir if it is approved for sale. 

        We
have granted commercialization rights to other pharmaceutical companies with respect to certain of our drug candidates in specific geographic locations, including telaprevir (Janssen
worldwide except for North America and the Far East, and Mitsubishi Tanabe in the Far East), Aurora kinase inhibitors (Merck worldwide) and AVN-944 (VX-944) (Avalon worldwide).
To the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drugs, any revenues we receive from any approved drugs will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of others. We do not
know whether we will be able to enter into additional third-party sales and marketing arrangements with respect to any of our other drug candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, or whether we will
be able to leverage the sales and marketing capabilities we intend to build for telaprevir in order to market and sell any other drug candidate if it is approved for sale. 

WE DO NOT KNOW WHETHER LEXIVA/TELZIR WILL CONTINUE TO BE COMPETITIVE IN THE MARKET FOR HIV PROTEASE INHIBITORS.  


        We currently receive royalties from net sales of Lexiva/Telzir under our collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline. Lexiva/Telzir's share of the worldwide protease
inhibitor market may decrease due to competitive forces and market dynamics. Other HIV protease inhibitors including Bristol-Myers Squibbs' Reyataz® and Abbott Laboratories'
Kaletra®, and a number of other products are on the market for the treatment of HIV infection and AIDS. Other drugs are still in development by our competitors, including Bristol-Myers
Squibb, Boehringer Ingelheim Merck, and Johnson & Johnson, which may have better efficacy, fewer side effects, easier administration and/or lower costs than Lexiva/Telzir. Moreover, the growth
in the worldwide market for HIV protease inhibitors has, to a certain extent, occurred as a result of early and aggressive treatment of HIV infection with a protease inhibitor-based regimen. Changes
in treatment strategy, in which treatment is initiated later in the course of infection, or in which treatment is more often initiated with a regimen that does not include a protease inhibitor, may
result in reduced use of HIV protease inhibitors. As a result, the total market for HIV protease inhibitors may decline, decreasing the sales potential of Lexiva/Telzir. Further, GlaxoSmithKline
directs the marketing and sales efforts and the positioning of Lexiva/Telzir in the overall market, and we have little control over the direction or success of those efforts. GlaxoSmithKline has the
right to terminate its agreement with us without cause upon twelve months' notice, and would have no obligation to pay further royalties to us upon any such termination. 

RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.  


        We have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships, and we and our collaborators are seeking approval for our drug candidates, outside the
United States. In addition, we expect that if telaprevir is approved for commercial sale, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing,
will be located in China, Japan and European Union. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. Risks associated with conducting
operations in foreign countries include: 



•differing
regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; 

40




 




•unexpected
changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;
•economic
weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;
•compliance
with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;
•foreign
taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;
•foreign
currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating a
subsidiary in another country;
•workforce
uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;
•production
shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and
•business
interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. 



        These
and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. 

IF WE ARE UNABLE TO REALIZE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS OF OUR DRUG DISCOVERY CAPABILITIES AND OTHER TECHNOLOGIES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE IN THE MARKETPLACE.  


        The pharmaceutical research field is characterized by rapid technological progress and intense competition. As a result, we may not realize the expected benefits
from our integrated drug discovery capabilities and technologies. For example, a large pharmaceutical company, with significantly more resources than we have, could pursue a systematic approach to the
discovery of drugs based on gene families, using proprietary drug targets, compound libraries, novel chemical approaches, structural protein analysis and information technologies. Such a company might
identify broadly applicable compound classes faster and more effectively than we do. Further, we believe that interest in the application of structure-based drug design, parallel drug design and
related approaches has accelerated as the strategies have become more widely understood. Businesses, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations
are conducting research to develop technologies that may compete with those we use. It is possible that our competitors could acquire or develop technologies that would render our technology obsolete
or noncompetitive. For example, a competitor could develop information technologies that accelerate the atomic-level analysis of potential compounds that bind to the active site of a drug target, and
predict the absorption, toxicity, and relative ease-of-synthesis of candidate compounds. If we were unable to access the same technologies at an acceptable price, our business
could be adversely affected. 

IF WE FAIL TO EXPAND OUR HUMAN RESOURCES AND MANAGE OUR GROWTH EFFECTIVELY, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER.  


        We expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our commercial organization and our drug discovery
efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources. For example, the number of our full-time employees
increased by 20% in 2007, and we expect to experience significant growth in 2008. Our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, achieve our research and development objectives, and satisfy our
commitments under our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. If we
are unable to manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 

41




 

THE LOSS OF THE SERVICES OF KEY EMPLOYEES OR THE FAILURE TO HIRE QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES WOULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND FUTURE GROWTH.  

        Because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have
the skills necessary to conduct these activities. In addition, as we attempt to grow our capabilities with respect to clinical development, regulatory affairs, quality control and sales and marketing,
we will need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. Our future success will depend in large part on the continued services of our key scientific and management personnel. We
have entered into employment agreements with some individuals and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us.
However, the employment agreements can be terminated by the employee on relatively short notice. The value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time—such as options and
restricted stock—will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers
from other companies. 

        We
face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. Moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies
and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the Boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of
living in the Boston and San Diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. A failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate
into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals and sales personnel would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. 

IF OUR PATENTS DO NOT PROTECT OUR DRUGS, OR OUR DRUGS INFRINGE THIRD-PARTY PATENTS, WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION AND SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITIES.  

        We have numerous patent applications pending in the United States, as well as foreign counterparts in other countries. Our success will depend, in significant
part, on our ability to obtain and maintain United States and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the
proprietary rights of third parties. We do not know whether any patents will issue from any of our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us
with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims in the
pharmaceutical field are still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy regarding the valid breadth of claims in biopharmaceutical patents or the effect of prior art on them. If we are not
able to obtain adequate patent protection, our ability to prevent competitors from making, using and selling similar drugs will be limited. Furthermore, our activities may infringe the claims of
patents held by third parties. Defense and prosecution of infringement or other intellectual property claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and
time-consuming, regardless of whether or not the outcome is favorable to us. If the outcome of any such litigation or proceeding were adverse, we could be subject to significant
liabilities to third parties, could be required to obtain licenses from third parties or could be required to cease sales of affected drugs, any of which outcomes could have a material adverse effect
on our business. 

IF PHYSICIANS, PATIENTS AND THIRD-PARTY PAYORS DO NOT ACCEPT OUR FUTURE DRUGS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO GENERATE SIGNIFICANT REVENUE, IF ANY.  

        Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and health care payors. Physicians may
elect not to recommend our drugs for a variety of reasons including: 



•the
timing of the market introduction of competitive drugs; 

42




 




•lower
demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs;
•lack
of cost-effectiveness;
•lack
of availability of reimbursement from third-party payors;
•convenience
and ease of administration;
•prevalence
and severity of adverse side effects;
•other
potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and
•ineffective
marketing and distribution support. 


        If
our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenue. 

IF THE GOVERNMENT AND OTHER THIRD-PARTY PAYORS FAIL TO PROVIDE COVERAGE AND ADEQUATE PAYMENT RATES FOR OUR FUTURE DRUGS, OUR REVENUE AND PROSPECTS FOR PROFITABILITY WILL BE
HARMED.  

        In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. Such
third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are increasingly attempting to
contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for these drugs. As a result,
they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any
future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our future drugs might not ultimately be
considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in
product development. 

        Reimbursement
rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are
already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate
these rates. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs. In addition, legislation has been introduced in Congress that, if
enacted, would permit more widespread importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States, which may include importation from countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in
the United States. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, could reduce the net price we receive for our marketed
drugs. 

OUR BUSINESS HAS A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN APPROPRIATE LEVELS OF INSURANCE, A PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIM COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT
OUR BUSINESS.  

        Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human
therapeutic products. We currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our drug candidates. However, our
insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable
to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. If a
claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from 

43




 


a
claim brought successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial
resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. 

IF WE DO NOT COMPLY WITH LAWS REGULATING THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH AND HUMAN SAFETY, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.  

        Our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. Although we believe that our
safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these
materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace
safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain workers' compensation
insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities.
Due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we have determined that the cost to secure insurance coverage for environmental liability and toxic tort claims far exceeds the
benefits. Accordingly, we do not maintain any insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials. Additional
federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate,
any of these laws or regulations. 

WE HAVE ADOPTED ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AND ARE SUBJECT TO MASSACHUSETTS CORPORATE LAWS THAT MAY FRUSTRATE ANY ATTEMPT TO REMOVE OR REPLACE OUR CURRENT MANAGEMENT.  

        Our corporate charter and by-law provisions, Massachusetts state laws, and stockholder rights plan may discourage certain types of transactions
involving an actual or potential change of control of Vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. Our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the Board of Directors.
Our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of stockholders, and certain provisions of the by-laws may be amended only with an 80% stockholder vote.
Pursuant to our stockholder rights plan, each share of common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. The rights will not trade separately from the common stock until, and are
exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. We may issue shares of any class or series
of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be
adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business
combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any stockholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without stockholder
approval. As a result, stockholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. 

OUR STOCK PRICE MAY FLUCTUATE BASED ON FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL.  

        Market prices for securities of companies such as Vertex are highly volatile. From January 1, 2007 to February 8, 2008, our common stock traded
between $17.59 and $41.42 per share. The market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology field, has from time to time experienced 

44




 


significant
price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. The future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: 



•announcements
of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drug candidates or those of our competitors;
•announcements
of financial results and other operating performance measures, or capital structuring or financing activities;
•technological
innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors;
•government
regulatory action;
•public
concern as to the safety of drugs developed by others;
•developments
in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters;
•developments
in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual property rights; and
•developments
relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general. 


OUR ESTIMATES OF OUR LIABILITY UNDER OUR KENDALL SQUARE LEASE MAY BE INACCURATE.  

        We leased a 290,000 square foot facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts in January 2003 for a 15-year term. We currently are occupying
approximately 120,000 square feet of the facility. We have sublease arrangements in place for the remaining rentable square footage of the facility. In determining our obligations under the lease for
the portion of the facility that we are not occupying, we have made certain assumptions relating to the time necessary to sublease the space after the expiration of the initial subleases, projected
future sublease rental rates and the anticipated durations of future subleases. Our estimates have changed in the past, and may change in the future, resulting in additional adjustments to the
estimate of liability, and the effect of any such adjustments could be material. 

GOVERNMENT INVESTIGATIONS OR LITIGATION AGAINST OUR COLLABORATORS COULD ADVERSLY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.  


        The federal government, certain state governments and private payors are investigating and have begun to file actions against numerous pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies alleging that the reporting of prices for pharmaceutical products has resulted in a false and overstated Average Wholesale Price, or AWP, which in turn is alleged to have
improperly inflated the reimbursement paid by Medicare beneficiaries, insurers, state Medicaid programs, medical plans and others to health care providers who prescribed and administered those
products. Some payors are also alleging that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are not reporting their "best price" to the states under the Medicaid program. In addition, recent government
litigation against pharmaceutical companies has focused on allegations of off-label promotion in connection with the filing of false claims for government reimbursement. In any AWP cases
or other cases brought by the government where our collaborators or licensees are named as defendants with respect to any products licensed from us, the outcome of the case could have a material
adverse effect on our financial results. 

SALES OF ADDITIONAL SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD CAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.  

        Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common
stock. In addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding option would be dilutive, 

45




 


and
may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 132.9 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We
also had outstanding options to purchase approximately 15.4 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $28.70 per share. Outstanding options may be exercised if
the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price. We may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of our financing activities and any such
issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. 

SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        This Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the description of our Business set forth in Item 1, the Risk Factors set forth in
this Item 1A and our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements
regarding: 



•our
expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings for telaprevir and other drug candidates under development by us and our
collaborators;
•our
expectations regarding the number of patients that will be evaluated, the trial design that will be utilized, the anticipated date by which enrollment will commence
and/or be completed and the expected date by which SVR data and/or interim data will be available for our Phase 3 clinical trial of telaprevir, the planned clinical trial to evaluate
48-week telaprevir-based treatment regimens in approximately 400 patients, the PROVE 1, PROVE 2 and PROVE 3 clinical trials, the Phase 2b clinical trials of telaprevir being conducted by
Tibotec, the Phase 2a and planned Phase 2b clinical trial of VX-770, the Phase 1a and planned Phase 1b clinical trial of VX-809, the Phase 1a clinical trial of
VX-500, the planned clinical trial of VX-813, and the clinical trials being conducted by our collaborators of drug candidates for the treatment of cancer;
•the
data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials, and the ability to use that data for the design and initiation of further clinical trials and to
support regulatory filings, including potentially an NDA for telaprevir;
•our
expectations regarding the potential of our ongoing and planned clinical trials of telaprevir to meet the anticipated registration requirements with respect to the
number and design of the clinical trials and the number of patients that will be part of the safety database of patients that have received 12 weeks of telaprevir;
•the
design of our global clinical program for telaprevir and our ability to potentially register telaprevir across a range of genotypes and patient populations;
•our
expectations regarding the future market demand and medical need for telaprevir and our other drug candidates;
•our
ability to retain greater development control of, and commercial rights to, drug candidates by funding a greater portion of our research programs;
•our
beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or
potential use as a treatment of those drug candidates;
•our
ability to capitalize on the advances in our telaprevir clinical program by building our drug development, supply chain management and commercialization organizations in
order to prepare for the potential commercial launch of telaprevir and to support the development of our other drug candidates; 

46




 




•our
business strategy, including: our plan to invest in our development of telaprevir in order to maintain the time-to-market advantage we believe we
have in relation to drug candidates being developed by our competitors; our ability to establish a leadership position with respect to treatment of HCV infection; and our ability to expand the value
of our portfolio of drug candidates;
•the
focus of our drug development efforts;
•the
establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;
•our
ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address series diseases and significant unmet medical needs;
•our
ability to increase our headcount and scale up our drug development and commercialization capabilities;
•our
estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts;
•the
potential for the acquisition of new and complementary technologies, resources and drugs or drug candidates; and
•our
liquidity. 


        Any
or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known
or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be
guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual
Report. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. 

        Without
limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are
a number of factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors
set forth under "Risk Factors" in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of
this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we
specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. 


  
 
ITEM 1B