ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        


 RISK FACTORS  

        Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and
uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks or
uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could
decline.

 WE EXPECT TO INCUR FUTURE LOSSES, AND WE MAY NEVER BECOME PROFITABLE.  

        We have incurred significant operating losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $459.9 million,
$391.3 million and $206.9 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and expect to incur a significant operating loss in 2009. We expect to continue to incur operating losses
until we are able to obtain approval for and successfully commercialize telaprevir, because we are continuing to incur significant operating expenses as we continue the late-stage
development of our advanced drug candidates, including telaprevir and VX-770, and continue to invest in research activities. As a result, we believe that it is likely that our expenses
will exceed our revenues at least until we begin receiving substantial product revenues. There can be no assurance that any of our drug candidates will be approved or, if approved, will be
commercially successful. Our net losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets and working capital. We expect that losses
will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. We cannot predict when we will become profitable, if ever. 

 WE DEPEND HEAVILY ON THE SUCCESS OF OUR LEAD DRUG CANDIDATE, TELAPREVIR, WHICH IS STILL UNDER DEVELOPMENT. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE TELAPREVIR, OR EXPERIENCE DELAYS
IN DOING SO, OUR BUSINESS WILL BE MATERIALLY HARMED.  

        We are investing a substantial portion of our personnel and financial resources in the development of telaprevir, and we believe that a
significant portion of the value of our company relates to the commercial potential of telaprevir. The clinical development and commercial success of telaprevir will depend on several factors,
including the following: 



•successful completion of clinical trials with favorable outcomes relative to current standards of care and future
competitive therapies;   
•receipt and timing of marketing approvals for telaprevir from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities;  
•receipt and timing of marketing approvals from the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities for products being
developed for the treatment of HCV by our competitors, including Schering-Plough's boceprevir;   
•additional discussions with the FDA and similar foreign authorities regarding the scope and design of our clinical trials,
the quality of our manufacturing process for telaprevir and our clinical trial results;   
•establishing and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements for telaprevir with third-party manufacturers that are
subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, and successfully monitoring those manufacturing operations to ensure they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the FDA, that
extensively monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities;   
•our ability to establish telaprevir if approved, as a significant component of any oral combination therapies that may be
approved as a treatment for HCV; 

27




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents





•launching commercial sales of telaprevir by us and our collaborators;   
•the efficacy and other characteristics, including the side effect profile, of telaprevir relative to existing and future
treatments for HCV;   
•our ability to increase awareness of the benefits of early treatment for HCV if telaprevir is approved, and to increase
the rates of diagnosis of currently undiagnosed patients with HCV infection; and   
•acceptance of telaprevir by patients, and in the medical community and with third-party payors. 


        If
the data from our ongoing clinical trials or non-clinical studies regarding the safety or efficacy of telaprevir are not favorable, we may be forced to delay or terminate
the clinical development of telaprevir, which would materially harm our business. Further, even if we gain marketing approvals from the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in a timely
manner, we cannot be sure that telaprevir will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market. If the results of clinical trials of telaprevir, the anticipated or actual timing of marketing
approvals for telaprevir, or the market acceptance of telaprevir, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, do not meet the expectations of investors or
public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 

 WE NEED TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL THAT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE.  

        We expect to incur substantial expenses as we design and develop existing and future compounds, undertake clinical trials of drug
candidates resulting from such compounds, and build our drug supply, regulatory, development and commercial capabilities. We also expect to incur substantial administrative and commercialization
expenses in the future. In particular, we expect the continuing development and commercialization of telaprevir to require additional capital beyond our current resources. We anticipate that we will
finance these substantial cash needs with some combination of: 



•public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities or other methods of financing;  
•cash received from our existing collaborative agreements;   
•cash received from future collaborative agreements;   
•existing cash reserves, together with interest earned on those reserves; and   
•future product sales. 


        While
we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities would be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months, we may raise additional capital
in 2009 and thereafter through public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities. Any such capital transactions may or may not be similar to transactions that we have completed
in the past. Any equity financings could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. Any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, restrict our ability to pay
interest and dividends—although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to
curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds
through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. Based on many factors, including general economic
conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 

28






<A
NAME="page_ci72001_1_29"> 



































  
Table of Contents 

 ALL OF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES REMAIN SUBJECT TO CLINICAL TESTING AND REGULATORY APPROVAL. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY DEVELOP AND TEST OUR DRUG CANDIDATES, WE WILL NOT BE
SUCCESSFUL.  

        The success of our business depends primarily upon our ability, and our collaborators' ability, to develop and commercialize our drug
candidates, including telaprevir, successfully. Due to the development efforts of our competitors, in order to be successful in a therapeutic area it is often necessary to develop
follow-on compounds and/or develop new combination therapies. Our drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before
they can be approved by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for sale. To satisfy these standards, we and/or our collaborators must allocate our resources among our various development programs and
must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. These discovery and development efforts for a new pharmaceutical product, including follow-on compounds, are
resource-intensive, and may take 10 to 15 years or more. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: 



•offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs;   
•be proven safe and effective in clinical trials;   
•meet applicable regulatory standards;   
•be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or   
•if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. 


        Positive
results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from earlier clinical trials
of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. Findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials could result in abrupt
changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. Furthermore, results from our clinical trials
may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. 

        We
and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising
results in earlier-stage clinical trials. Accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive
of the results we may obtain in later stage trials, and may not be predictive of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. In addition, from time to time, we report interim
data from our clinical trials, including with respect to telaprevir data regarding patients' HCV RNA levels during treatment, at the end-of-treatment or 12 weeks after completing treatment.
Interim data are subject to change, and there can be no assurances that interim data will be confirmed upon the analysis of final data. In addition, interim data with respect to a patient's HCV RNA
levels may not be predictive of the final SVR rates that will be achieved in the clinical trial. 

 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN UNITED STATES AND/OR FOREIGN REGULATORY APPROVAL, WE WILL BE UNABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR DRUG CANDIDATES.  


        Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical trials, manufacturing and
commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in most other countries prior to the commercial
sale of our drug candidates. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that none of the drug
candidates we are developing independently, or in collaboration with others, will be approved for marketing. 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        We
have limited experience in conducting and managing the late-stage clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the FDA. The time
required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the FDA and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. Our analysis of data obtained from preclinical
and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. We may also encounter unanticipated delays or
increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. 

        Any
delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize any drug candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory
approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not currently expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. Any such limitations could limit the size of the market
for the drug. 

        We
are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party
reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign
requirements. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States. Foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the
FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. 

 WE ARE INVESTING SIGNIFICANT RESOURCES IN OUR DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM FOR VX-770, BASED PRIMARILY ON DATA FROM A RELATIVELY SMALL CLINICAL TRIAL IN WHICH PATIENTS
RECEIVED VX-770 OVER A SHORT DURATION. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO SHOW THE SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF VX-770, OR EXPERIENCE DELAYS IN DOING SO, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY HARMED.  


        We are increasing the resources that we are investing in the development of VX-770 and expect to begin a registration
program for VX-770 focused on CF patients with the G551D mutation in the first half of 2009. We are initiating this registration program based primarily on data from a Phase 2a
clinical trial of VX-770 in 39 patients with CF, in which patients received VX-770 over 14-day and 28-day periods. In order to receive approval for
VX-770, we will need to show that it is safe and effective in a larger number of patients than were involved in the Phase 2a clinical trial over significantly longer dosing periods.
In addition, our registration program for VX-770 will include two pediatric patient populations in which VX-770 has not previously been studied. Since a substantial portion of
the CF population is under age 18, VX-770 potential commercial success will be dependent on not only being able to obtain approval for adult patients, but also for pediatric patients. If
we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of VX-770, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. 

 OUR OUTSTANDING INDEBTEDNESS MAY MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL FINANCING OR REDUCE OUR FLEXIBILITY TO ACT IN OUR BEST INTERESTS.  

        As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding $287.5 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.75% convertible senior
subordinated notes due 2013, or 2013 Notes. The level of our indebtedness could affect us by: 



•exposing us to fixed rates of interest, which may be in excess of prevailing market rates;   
•making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service
requirements or other purposes;   
•constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the
pharmaceutical industry; or 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents





•requiring the dedication of substantial cash to service the semi-annual interest payments on our outstanding
debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. 


 ISSUANCES OF ADDITIONAL SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD CAUSE THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK TO DECLINE.  


        Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely
affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding option would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for
a share of our common stock to decline. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately 151.2 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We also had outstanding options to
purchase approximately 16.5 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $29.16 per share and 12.4 million shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of
our outstanding 2013 Notes at a conversion price of approximately $23.14 of aggregate principal amount per share. Outstanding vested options could be exercised if the market price of our common stock
exceeds the applicable exercise price. In addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of our financing activities or business development activities
and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. 

 THE RESULTS FROM OUR CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES AND THE CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES OF OUR COMPETITORS ARE RELEASED PERIODICALLY, AND HAVE OFTEN RESULTED IN
SIGNIFICANT VOLATILITY IN THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK.  

        We, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs typically through press
releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. These periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us, our collaborators or our
competitors and/or information about our or our competitor's expectations regarding future clinical development of our drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates. The timing
of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by when we receive data from our clinical trials and by the general preference
among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. In addition, because clinical trials of drug candidates
for the treatment of HCV often occur over two years, the information that we, our collaborators and our competitors disclose is often based on interim data and subject to significant interpretation by
investors. Any new information regarding drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates, and in particular any new information regarding telaprevir and potentially competitive HCV
drug candidates, can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. 

 IF CLINICAL TRIALS FOR OUR DRUG CANDIDATES ARE PROLONGED OR DELAYED, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR DRUG CANDIDATES ON A TIMELY BASIS, WHICH WOULD REQUIRE US TO INCUR
ADDITIONAL COSTS, WOULD DELAY OUR RECEIPT OF ANY PRODUCT REVENUE AND COULD HARM OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION.  

        We cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will
cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the clinical
development of our drug candidates: 



•ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials
and the number of clinical trials we must conduct;   
•delays in receiving or the inability to obtain required approvals from IRBs at one or more of the institutions at which a
clinical trial is conducted or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents





•delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that
meet the eligibility criteria for the trial;   
•a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials;   
•the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or unforeseen complications in testing;  
•inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our
clinical trials;   
•unfavorable FDA inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or its relevant manufacturing
records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation;   
•serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or  
•the placement by the FDA of a clinical hold on a trial. 


        Our
ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population,
the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials competing for patients
in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. In addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after
treatment ends, and this could possibly impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. Delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased
costs and longer development times. While all or a portion of these additional costs may be covered by payments under our collaborative agreements, we bear all of the costs for our development
candidates for which we have no financial support from a collaborator. 

        We,
our collaborators, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients
participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug
candidate and our business. 

        In
addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such
changes, if any, may be. If we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is affected or the development of any of our
other drug candidates. Any delay in the approval of any of our drug candidates, including telaprevir, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to effectively commercialize the drug
candidate after approval if one or more of our competitors are able to bring competing therapies to market before or in closer proximity to our drug candidates. 


 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO DEVELOP EFFECTIVE INDEPENDENT SALES AND MARKETING CAPABILITIES OR ESTABLISH THIRD-PARTY RELATIONSHIPS FOR THE COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES,
WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMMERCIALIZE OUR DRUG CANDIDATES, AND IN PARTICULAR TELAPREVIR, EVEN IF WE ARE ABLE TO OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVAL.  

        We currently have limited experience as a company in sales and marketing or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party
reimbursement for drugs. We will need to either develop marketing capabilities and an independent sales force or enter into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our drug candidates, if
they are approved for sale by regulatory authorities. 

        In
order to market telaprevir in North America if it is approved, we intend to build a marketing organization and a specialized sales force, which will require substantial efforts and
significant 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



management
and financial resources. In addition, if VX-770 is approved, we would also need to establish a small sales force in North America and Europe for VX-770. While we
intend to stage our commitments to the extent possible in consideration of the development timelines, in order to support an effective launch of telaprevir, we will need to make significant financial
commitments to our marketing organization prior to receiving regulatory approval. We will need to devote significant effort, in particular, to recruiting individuals with experience in the sales and
marketing of pharmaceutical products. Competition for personnel with these skills is very high and may be particularly difficult for us since telaprevir is still an investigational drug candidate and
we will be competing with companies that are currently marketing successful drugs. As a result, we may not be able to successfully develop our own marketing capabilities or independent sales force for
telaprevir in North America in order to support an effective launch of telaprevir if it is approved for sale. 


        We
have granted commercialization rights to other pharmaceutical companies with respect to certain of our drug candidates in specific geographic locations, including telaprevir, Aurora
kinase inhibitors and AVN-944 (VX-944). To the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drugs, any revenues we receive from any approved drugs will depend
primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of others. We do not know whether we will be able to enter into additional third-party sales and marketing arrangements with respect to any of our other
drug candidates on
acceptable terms, if at all, or whether we will be able to leverage the sales and marketing capabilities we intend to build for telaprevir in order to market and sell any other drug candidate if it is
approved for sale. 

 IF OUR COMPETITORS BRING SUPERIOR DRUGS TO MARKET OR BRING THEIR DRUGS TO MARKET BEFORE WE DO, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO FIND A MARKET FOR OUR DRUG CANDIDATES.  

        Our drug candidates in development may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the market or new drugs that
may be developed by others. No assurances can be given that telaprevir will be approved for marketing prior to competing therapies, including Schering-Plough's boceprevir, or at all. There are many
other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing in development in particular for the treatment of HCV infection. In order to compete successfully in these areas, we must
demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and ease of manufacturing and gain market acceptance over competing drugs that may receive regulatory approval before or after our drug candidates, and over those
that currently are marketed. Many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as Schering-Plough, GlaxoSmithKline, Wyeth, Pfizer, Roche, Amgen, Novartis and Johnson &
Johnson possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. In addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting
preclinical and nonclinical testing and human clinical trials of drug candidates, scaling up manufacturing operations and obtaining regulatory approvals of drugs and manufacturing facilities.
Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for drugs more rapidly than we do. If we obtain regulatory approval and launch commercial sales of our drug candidates, we
also will compete with respect to manufacturing efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. 

        We
are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for HCV infection including protease inhibitor compounds like telaprevir, such as Schering-Plough's boceprevir,
polymerase inhibitor compounds and advanced interferons. Even if we are able to obtain marketing approval for telaprevir, it is possible that one or more of these therapies could be approved prior to
or shortly after we obtain such approval for telaprevir, which we believe may negatively impact telaprevir sales. 

 IF PHYSICIANS, PATIENTS AND THIRD-PARTY PAYORS DO NOT ACCEPT OUR FUTURE DRUGS, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO GENERATE SIGNIFICANT REVENUE, IF ANY.  


        Even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and health care
payors. We believe that effectively marketing telaprevir will 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



require
substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. Physicians may elect not to recommend our drugs for a variety of reasons including: 



•the anticipated market introduction of competitive drugs;   
•lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs;   
•lack of cost-effectiveness;   
•lack of availability of reimbursement from third-party payors;   
•convenience and ease of administration;   
•prevalence and severity of adverse side effects;   
•other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and   
•ineffective marketing and distribution support. 


        If
our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenue. 

 IF THE GOVERNMENT AND OTHER THIRD-PARTY PAYORS FAIL TO PROVIDE COVERAGE AND ADEQUATE PAYMENT RATES FOR OUR FUTURE DRUGS, OUR REVENUE AND PROSPECTS FOR PROFITABILITY WILL BE
HARMED.  

        In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from
third-party payors. Such third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. These third-party payors are
increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay
for these drugs. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the
cost-effectiveness of any future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. Such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. Our
future drugs might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an
appropriate return on investment in product development. 

        Reimbursement
rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are
already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate
these rates. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs. In addition, legislation has been introduced in Congress that, if
enacted, would permit more widespread importation of drugs from foreign countries into the United States, which may include importation from countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in
the United States. Such legislation, or similar regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, could reduce the net price we receive for our marketed
drugs. 

 IF OUR PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS ARE NOT COMPLIANT WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS, WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO DELAYS IN FILING NDAs OR RESTRICTIONS ON MARKETING OF DRUGS AFTER THEY
HAVE BEEN APPROVED.  

        We currently are developing drug candidates for regulatory approval for the first time since our inception, and are in the process of
implementing regulated processes and systems required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. Certain of these processes and systems for conducting clinical trials and
manufacturing material must be compliant with regulatory requirements before we can apply for regulatory approval for our drug candidates. These processes and systems will 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



be
subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. If we are unable to achieve compliance in a timely fashion, or if compliance issues are identified at any
point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. In addition,
any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on
such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending
applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are a party to agreements
that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing
requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. If our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain
approval may be withdrawn from the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 IF WE OBTAIN REGULATORY APPROVALS, OUR DRUG CANDIDATES WILL BE SUBJECT TO ONGOING REGULATORY REVIEW. IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH CONTINUING UNITED STATES AND APPLICABLE
FOREIGN REGULATIONS, WE COULD LOSE THOSE APPROVALS, AND OUR BUSINESS WOULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED.  

        If we receive regulatory approval of any drug candidates that we are developing, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review,
including the review of clinical results that are reported after our drug candidates become commercially available, approved drugs. Drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been
obtained, therefore side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. In addition, the manufacturers and
the manufacturing facilities we engage to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems
with the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, including withdrawal of the drug from the market or our
inability to use the facilities to make our drug. If we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we
may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. 

 OUR DRUG DEVELOPMENT EFFORTS ARE DATA-DRIVEN AND THEREFORE POTENTIALLY SUBJECT TO ABRUPT CHANGES IN EXPECTED OUTCOMES.  

        Small molecule drug discovery and development involve, initially, the identification of chemical compounds that may have promise as
treatments for specific diseases. Once identified as drug candidates, compounds are subjected to years of testing in a laboratory setting, in animals and in humans. Our ultimate objective is to
determine whether the drug candidates have physical characteristics, both intrinsically and in animal and human systems, and a toxicological profile, that are compatible with clinical and commercial
success in treatment of the disease being targeted. Throughout this process, experiments are conducted and data are gathered that could reinforce a decision to move to the next step in the
investigation process for a particular drug candidate, could result in uncertainty over the proper course to pursue, or could result in the termination of further drug development efforts with respect
to the compound being evaluated. We monitor the results of our discovery research and our nonclinical studies and clinical trials and regularly evaluate and re-evaluate our portfolio
investments with the objective of balancing risk and potential return in view of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights. This process can result in relatively abrupt changes in
focus and priority as new information comes to light and we gain additional insights into ongoing programs and potential new programs. 

35






<A
NAME="page_ck72001_1_36"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

 WE DEPEND ON OUR COLLABORATORS TO WORK WITH US TO DEVELOP, MANUFACTURE AND COMMERCIALIZE MANY OF OUR DRUG CANDIDATES.  

        We have granted development and commercialization rights to telaprevir to Janssen (worldwide other than North America and Far East) and
to Mitsubishi Tanabe (Far East). We expect to receive significant financial support under our Janssen collaboration agreement, as well as meaningful technical and manufacturing contributions to the
telaprevir program. The success of some of our key in-house programs, such as for telaprevir, is dependent upon the continued financial and other support that our collaborators have agreed
to provide. 

        For
some drug candidates on which we are not currently focusing our development efforts, we have granted worldwide rights to a collaborator, as in our collaborations with Merck and
Avalon. 

        The
success of our collaborations depends on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. Each of our collaborators has significant discretion in determining the efforts and
resources that it will apply to the collaboration. Our existing collaborations may not be scientifically or commercially successful, and we may fail in our attempts to establish further collaborations
to develop our drug candidates on acceptable terms. 

        The
risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: 



•Our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our
agreements with Janssen and Merck, termination without cause. Any such termination could have an adverse material effect on our financial condition and/or delay the development and commercial sale of
our drug candidates, including telaprevir.   
•Our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient
resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following
mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of some of our drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators
decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those drug candidates.   
•Our collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue,
either alone or in collaboration with third parties.   
•Our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive
with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of the collaboration with us. 


 IF WE ACQUIRE OR LICENSE TECHNOLOGIES, RESOURCES OR DRUG CANDIDATES, WE WILL INCUR A VARIETY OF COSTS AND MAY NEVER REALIZE BENEFITS FROM THE TRANSACTION.  


        If appropriate opportunities become available, we might attempt to license or acquire technologies, resources and drugs or drug
candidates, including potentially complimentary HCV therapies. The process of negotiating the license or acquisition might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and whether or not any such
transaction is ever consummated, might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, even if we complete a license or
other transaction, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. Future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the
incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial
condition. 

36




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN COLLABORATORS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR DRUGS AND DRUG CANDIDATES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO FULLY FUND OUR
DEVELOPMENT AND COMMERCIALIZATION ACTIVITIES.  

        Our collaborators have agreed to fund portions of our pharmaceutical development programs and/or to conduct the development and
commercialization of specified drug candidates and, if they are approved, drugs. In exchange, we have given them technology, sales and marketing rights relating to those drugs and drug candidates.
Some of our corporate collaborators have rights to control the planning and execution of drug development and clinical programs including for our Aurora kinase inhibitor drug candidates and
AVN-944 (VX-944). Our collaborators may exercise their control rights in ways that may negatively affect the timing and success of those programs. Our collaborations are
subject to termination rights by the collaborators. If any of our collaborators were to terminate its relationship with us, or fail to meet its contractual obligations, that action could have a
material adverse effect on our ability to develop, manufacture and market any drug candidates being developed under the collaboration and could adversely affect our revenues and net loss. As part of
our ongoing strategy, we expect to seek additional collaborative arrangements, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, to develop and commercialize our drug candidates in the
future. We plan to seek a collaborator for our JAK3 inhibitors, including VX-509. No assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful. Even if we are able to establish
acceptable collaborative arrangements in the future, these collaborations may not be successful. 

 OUR INVESTMENT IN THE CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURE OF A COMMERCIAL SUPPLY OF TELAPREVIR MAY NOT RESULT IN ANY BENEFIT TO US IF TELAPREVIR IS NOT APPROVED FOR
COMMERCIAL SALE.  

        We are investing significant resources in the clinical development of telaprevir. Telaprevir is the first drug candidate for which we
expect to perform all activities related to late-stage development, drug supply, registration and commercialization in a major market. We are planning for and investing significant
resources now in preparation for application for marketing approval, commercial supply and sales and marketing. We also are incurring significant costs to obtain telaprevir commercial supply,
including $17.4 million in 2008 and $75.4 million in 2007. Our engagement in these resource-intensive activities puts significant investment at risk if we do not obtain regulatory
approval and successfully commercialize telaprevir in North America. There is no assurance that our development of telaprevir will lead successfully to regulatory approval, or that obtaining
regulatory approval will lead to commercial success. If telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale or if its development is delayed for any reason, our full investment in telaprevir may be at
risk, we may face significant costs to dispose of unusable inventory, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 

 WE DEPEND ON THIRD-PARTY MANUFACTURERS, INCLUDING SOLE SOURCE SUPPLIERS, TO MANUFACTURE CLINICAL TRIAL MATERIALS FOR CLINICAL TRIALS AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO RELY ON THEM
TO MEET OUR COMMERCIAL SUPPLY NEEDS FOR ANY DRUG CANDIDATE THAT IS APPROVED FOR SALE. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ESTABLISH OR MAINTAIN THESE RELATIONSHIPS AND COULD EXPERIENCE SUPPLY DISRUPTIONS OUTSIDE OF
OUR CONTROL.  

        We currently rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical
trials, and we expect that we will continue to do so to meet our commercial supply needs for these drugs, including telaprevir, if they are approved for sale. As a result of our reliance on these
third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our drug candidates and drugs, we may be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our
control. Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor in which we rely on third-party contract
manufacturers in Asia, for the supply of raw materials, and in the European Union and the United States for the application of specific manufacturing processes for the conversion of raw 

37




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



materials
into drug substance and drug substance into final dosage form. Establishing and managing this global supply chain requires significant financial commitments, experienced personnel and the
creation or expansion of numerous third-party contractual relationships. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain commercial supply chains on commercially reasonable
terms, or at all, in order to support a timely launch of telaprevir or any of our other drug candidates 

        We
currently require for our own use, and are responsible to Janssen and Mitsubishi Tanabe for, a supply of telaprevir for clinical trials in North America and the European Union,
respectively. We will require a supply of telaprevir for sale in North America if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. We are in the process of transferring technical information
regarding the manufacture of telaprevir to Janssen so that Janssen will be able to manufacture telaprevir, if approved, for sale in Janssen's territories and as a secondary supply source of drug
substance for us. While we believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to manufacture and distribute telaprevir, and supply of
materials which cannot be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning, there is a risk that we may underestimate or overestimate demand, and the manufacturing capacity, for which we planned
and contracted with third-party manufacturers, may not be sufficient or may result in more inventory than is necessary. In addition, because of the significant lead times involved in our supply chain
for telaprevir, we may have less flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times. 

        We
currently require a supply of VX-770 for clinical trials in North America and Europe, and will require a supply of VX-770 for sale in North America and Europe,
if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. We are manufacturing VX-770 through our third-party manufacturer network to meet our clinical supply needs and are focused on
completing the technical development work and commercial formulation of VX-770. Over the next several years, we will need to expand our relationships with the third-party manufacturers
that comprise our supply chain for telaprevir or establish new relationships with third-party manufacturers in order to establish a supply chain for VX-770 and support the potential
commercial launch and subsequent commercial supply of VX-770. 

        Even
if we successfully establish arrangements with third-party manufacturers, supply disruptions may result from a number of factors including shortages in product raw materials, labor
or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. 

        Any
supply disruptions could impact the timing of our clinical trials and the commercial launch of any approved pharmaceutical drugs. Furthermore, we may be required to modify our
production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for commercial launch and sale. These modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our
third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. Upon approval of a pharmaceutical drug for sale, if any, we similarly may be at risk of supply
chain disruption for our commercial drug supply. In the course of its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our drug candidates that the
manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. This would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products
manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. 

 WE RELY ON THIRD PARTIES TO CONDUCT OUR CLINICAL TRIALS, AND THOSE THIRD PARTIES MAY NOT PERFORM SATISFACTORILY, INCLUDING FAILING TO MEET ESTABLISHED DEADLINES FOR THE
COMPLETION OF SUCH TRIALS.  

        We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as
contract research organizations, to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. Our
reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, 

38




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



or
may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected
deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of
the affected trial. If clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely
affect the conduct or progess of these trials. Accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. 

 RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS RELATIONSHIPS COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS.  

        We have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships, and we and our collaborators are seeking approval for our drug
candidates, outside the United States. In addition, we expect that if telaprevir is approved for commercial sale, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw
materials and manufacturing, will be located in Asia and the European Union. Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. Risks associated
with conducting operations in foreign countries include: 



•differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries;   
•unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;   
•economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;  
•compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;  
•foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes;   
•foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other
obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country;   
•workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;  
•production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and  
•business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. 


        These
and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. 

 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO REALIZE THE EXPECTED BENEFITS OF OUR DRUG DISCOVERY CAPABILITIES AND OTHER TECHNOLOGIES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE IN THE MARKETPLACE.  

        The pharmaceutical research field is characterized by rapid technological progress and intense competition. As a result, we may not
realize the expected benefits from our integrated drug discovery capabilities and technologies. For example, a large pharmaceutical company, with significantly more resources than we have, could
pursue a systematic approach to the discovery of drugs based on gene families, using proprietary drug targets, compound libraries, novel chemical approaches, structural protein analysis and
information technologies. Such a company might identify broadly applicable compound classes faster and more effectively than we do. Further, we believe that interest in the application of
structure-based drug design, parallel drug design and related approaches has accelerated as the strategies have become more widely understood. Businesses, academic institutions, governmental 

39




 


<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



agencies
and other public and private research organizations are conducting research to develop technologies that may compete with those we use. It is possible that our competitors could acquire or
develop technologies that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. For example, a competitor could develop information technologies that accelerate the atomic-level analysis of
potential compounds that bind to the active site of a drug target, and predict the absorption, toxicity, and relative ease-of-synthesis of candidate compounds. If we were
unable to access the same technologies at an acceptable price, or at all, our business could be adversely affected. 

 IF WE FAIL TO EXPAND OUR HUMAN RESOURCES AND MANAGE OUR GROWTH EFFECTIVELY, OUR BUSINESS MAY SUFFER.  


        We expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our commercial organization
and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources. For example, the number of our
full-time employees increased by 16% in 2008, and we expect to experience additional growth in 2009. Because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature,
we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. In addition, as we attempt to grow our capabilities with respect to
clinical development, regulatory affairs, quality control and sales and marketing, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. We face intense competition for our
personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. Moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies
into the Boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the Boston and San Diego areas makes it
difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. Our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, achieve our research and development objectives, and satisfy our
commitments under our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. If we
are
unable to manage to hire qualified personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 

 THE LOSS OF THE SERVICES OF KEY EMPLOYEES OR THE FAILURE TO EFFECTIVELY INTEGRATE KEY EMPLOYEES COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND FUTURE GROWTH.  

        Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and
to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. As we expand our capabilities in anticipation of the possible launch of commercial products, a loss of key personnel or a
failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. We have entered into employment agreements with some individuals and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees
that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. However, the employment agreements can be terminated by the employee on relatively short notice. The value to employees of
stock-related benefits that vest over time—such as options and restricted stock—will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control, and may
at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. A failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient
number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. 

 IF OUR PATENTS DO NOT PROTECT OUR DRUGS, OR OUR DRUGS INFRINGE THIRD-PARTY PATENTS, WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO LITIGATION AND SUBSTANTIAL LIABILITIES.  


        We have numerous patent applications pending in the United States, as well as foreign counterparts in other countries. Our success will
depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain 

40




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



and
maintain United States and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third
parties. We do not know whether any patents will issue from any of our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant
protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. Legal standards relating to the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims in the pharmaceutical field are
still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy regarding the valid breadth of claims in biopharmaceutical patents or the effect of prior art on them. If we are not able to obtain adequate
patent protection, our ability to prevent competitors from making, using and selling similar drugs will be limited. Furthermore, our activities may infringe the claims of patents held by third
parties. Defense and prosecution of infringement or other intellectual property claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time-consuming,
regardless of whether or not the
outcome is favorable to us. If the outcome of any such litigation or proceeding were adverse, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, could be required to obtain licenses from
third parties or could be required to cease sales of affected drugs, any of which outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

 OUR BUSINESS HAS A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN APPROPRIATE LEVELS OF INSURANCE, A PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIM COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT
OUR BUSINESS.  

        Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and sales
and marketing of human therapeutic products. We currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our drug
candidates. However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. As a
result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material
adverse effect on us. If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought
successfully against us. Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such
defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. 

 IF WE DO NOT COMPLY WITH LAWS REGULATING THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH AND HUMAN SAFETY, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.  

        Our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds.
Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination
or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental,
health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain
workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against
potential liabilities. Due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we have determined that the cost to secure insurance coverage for environmental liability and toxic tort claims
far exceeds the benefits. Accordingly, we do not maintain any insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous
materials. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or
penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. 

41




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



 WE HAVE ADOPTED ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS AND ARE SUBJECT TO MASSACHUSETTS CORPORATE LAWS THAT MAY FRUSTRATE ANY ATTEMPT TO REMOVE OR REPLACE OUR CURRENT
MANAGEMENT.  

        Our corporate charter and by-law provisions, Massachusetts state laws, and our stockholder rights plan may discourage
certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of Vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. Our charter provides for staggered terms for the
members of the Board of Directors. Our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of stockholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only
with an 80% stockholder vote. Pursuant to our stockholder rights plan, each share of common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. The rights will not trade separately from the common
stock until, and are exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. We may issue shares
of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common stock will be
subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging
in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any stockholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock
without stockholder approval. As a result, stockholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. 


 OUR STOCK PRICE MAY FLUCTUATE BASED ON FACTORS BEYOND OUR CONTROL.  

        Market prices for securities of companies such as Vertex are highly volatile. From January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2008,
our common stock traded between $13.84 and $41.42 per share. The market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology field, has from time to time experienced significant price and
volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. The future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such
as: 



•announcements of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drug candidates or those of our
competitors;   
•announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, or capital structuring or financing
activities;   
•technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors;   
•government regulatory action;   
•public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by others;   
•developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters;  
•developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual
property rights;   
•developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or
stocks in general; and   
•general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. 


 OUR ESTIMATES OF OUR LIABILITY UNDER OUR KENDALL SQUARE LEASE MAY BE INACCURATE.  

        We leased a 290,000 square foot facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts in January 2003 for a 15-year term. We
currently are not occupying the entire facility. We have sublease arrangements in place for the remaining rentable square footage of the facility. In determining our 

42




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents



obligations
under the lease for the part of the facility that we are not occupying, we have made certain assumptions relating to the time necessary to sublease the space after the expiration of the
initial subleases, projected future sublease rental rates and the anticipated durations of future subleases. Our estimates have changed in the past, and may change in the future, resulting in
additional adjustments to the estimate of liability, and the effect of any such adjustments could be material. 

 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        This Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the description of our Business set forth in Item 1, the
Risk Factors set forth in this Item 1A and our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 contain or incorporate a number
of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including
statements regarding: 



•our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings for telaprevir,
VX-770 and other drug candidates under development by us and our collaborators;   
•our expectations regarding the number of patients that will be evaluated, the trial design that will be utilized, the
anticipated date by which enrollment will be completed and the expected date by which SVR data, interim data and/or final data will be available and/or publicly announced for our ADVANCE, REALIZE and
ILLUMINATE trials, the other ongoing or planned clinical trials of telaprevir, the registration program for VX-770, the Phase 1 clinical trials and Phase 2a clinical trials
of VX-809, the Phase 1 clinical trial of VX-813, and the clinical trials being conducted by our collaborators of drug candidates for the treatment of cancer;  
•expectations regarding trends with respect to our costs and expenses;   
•the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials, and the ability to use that data for the design
and initiation of further clinical trials and to support regulatory filings, including potentially applications for marketing approval for telaprevir and VX-770;  
•our ability to potentially register telaprevir for marketing across a range of genotypes and patient populations;  
•our intention to work with regulatory authorities in North America and Europe to design a registration program for
VX-770, which, if approved, could begin the first half of 2009;   
•our expectations regarding the future market demand and medical need for telaprevir and our other drug candidates;  
•our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug
candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment of those drug candidates;   
•our ability to successfully market telaprevir and VX-770 if we are able to obtain regulatory approval;  
•the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to invest significant
resources in telaprevir and our other drug candidates;   
•the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;   
•potential business development activities, including with respect to our JAK3 program and drug candidates that could be
complimentary to our HCV protease inhibitors;   
•our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and
significant unmet medical needs; 

43




 

<A
HREF="#bg72001a_main_toc">Table of Contents





•our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts; and  
•our liquidity and our expectations regarding our needs for and ability to raise additional capital. 


        Any
or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make
or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking
statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "Risk Factors" above in this
Item 1A. These are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there
could also adversely affect us. 

        Without
limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are
a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control,
including the factors and uncertainties set forth under "Risk Factors" above in this Item 1A. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the
date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we
specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.  

<A
NAME="ck72001_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B