ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

 RISK FACTORS  

        Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and
uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks or
uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could
decline.

<A
NAME="ci46701_risks_related_to_commercialization_of_our_products"> 
 
  Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Products        

 We depend heavily on our revenues from sales of INCIVEK (telaprevir) in the United States, and our future revenues from INCIVEK are uncertain.  


        We obtained approval to sell INCIVEK (telaprevir) in the United States in May 2011. Prior to the launch of INCIVEK we had not sold or
marketed a therapeutic product. As a result, a majority of our total revenues in 2011 were attributable to sales of INCIVEK in the United States. INCIVEK competes with VICTRELIS (boceprevir), a
protease inhibitor that also was approved in 2011 and is being marketed by Merck & Co., Inc. We expect that, starting in late 2013, one or more additional competitive products
currently in late-stage development for the treatment of HCV infection may become available. Our future revenues from sales of INCIVEK depend on numerous factors,
including:



•The number of patients with genotype 1 HCV infection, including treatment-naïve patients and
patients who did not achieve a sustained viral response with prior treatment, who seek treatment. Although the number of patients with genotype 1 HCV infection is significant, it is estimated
that less than half of those patients are aware that they are infected, and many of the patients that are aware of their infection have not historically sought treatment. 
•Competition from VICTRELIS-based treatment regimens, which compete with INCIVEK-based treatment regimens on the basis of,
among other things, efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use, side-effect profile and cost of co-therapies. 
•Competitive pressures from development-stage drug candidates, including potential all-oral, interferon-free
combination therapies, which may influence some physicians and patients with HCV infection to defer treatment until these drug candidates or other treatment options become available.  
•Competition from any additional products for the treatment of HCV infection that are approved by the FDA in the future.  
•The safety profile of INCIVEK, including whether previously unknown side-effects or increased incidence or
severity of side-effects as compared to those seen during development are identified with the increased use of INCIVEK after approval. 
•The effectiveness of our commercial strategy for marketing INCIVEK and our execution of that strategy, including our
pricing strategy and the effectiveness of our efforts to obtain adequate third-party reimbursements. 
•The capacity of physicians and health care providers to provide treatment to patients with HCV infection.  
•Our ability to maintain and successfully monitor commercial manufacturing arrangements for INCIVEK with third-party
manufacturers to ensure they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the FDA, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. 

32




 


<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        While
INCIVEK has established a competitive commercial profile, we cannot accurately predict the amount of revenues INCIVEK will generate in future periods. If our revenues, market share
and/or other indicators of market acceptance of INCIVEK do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, if
one or more of the factors above negatively affects INCIVEK sales, our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. 

 Janssen began marketing INCIVO (telaprevir) at the end of the third quarter of 2011, and we cannot predict the royalty revenues we will receive based on INCIVO sales by
Janssen in its territories.  

        Janssen obtained approval to market INCIVO (telaprevir) from the European Commission in September 2011, and we earned
$16.5 million in royalty revenues on net sales of INCIVO by Janssen in the fourth quarter of 2011. In addition to the factors that contribute to the uncertainty of sales of INCIVEK (telaprevir)
by us in the United States discussed above, which apply equally to Janssen's sales in its territory, sales in Janssen's territory are dependent upon Janssen's sales and marketing efforts, which we do
not control and may not be able to effectively influence, and the actions and decisions of foreign regulatory authorities. While we expect our royalty revenues on net sales of INCIVO to increase in
future periods as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011, we cannot predict the royalty revenues that we will recognize in future periods from sales of INCIVO by Janssen or the timing of such
revenues. 

 We cannot accurately predict future revenues from KALYDECO (ivacaftor), which will be dependent on, among other factors, our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement and
whether or not we are able obtain additional regulatory approvals for KALYDECO.  

        We have obtained approval to market KALYDECO (ivacaftor) in the United States for the treatment of patients with CF six years of age
and older with the G551D mutation in the CFTR gene, but have not yet obtained approval for KALYDECO in any other population or jurisdiction. We believe
that the total number of patients with CF who have this mutation in the United States is approximately 1,200. KALYDECO was approved for marketing in January 2012, and we do not yet know how many
patients with CF will receive treatment with KALYDECO or the adequacy of the extent of coverage, pricing and level of reimbursement from governmental agencies and third-party payors that will be
available for KALYDECO. 

        Over
the next several years our revenues from KALYDECO also will depend on our ability to obtain regulatory approval in Europe, Canada and Australia. We are seeking approval from the
European Commission to market KALYDECO for the treatment of patients with CF six years of age and older with the G551D mutation in the CFTR gene and
with certain other mutations in the CFTR gene that result in gating defects. There can be no assurance that ivacaftor will be approved by the European
Commission or that the European Commission will not limit any such approval to patients with CF who have the G551D mutation in the CFTR gene. 

        We
are planning to conduct several additional clinical trials to evaluate KALYDECO as a monotherapy in additional patient populations, including patients younger than six years of age
with gating mutations and patients with other mutations in the CFTR gene, which may result in additional revenues if successful. These clinical trials
are subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties as the clinical trials for our drug candidates. Even if these clinical trials are successful, we do not expect that we would obtain approval for
the use of KALYDECO in additional populations until 2013 or later. 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 If our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline.  


        INCIVEK, KALYDECO and any drugs we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the
market or new drugs that may be developed by others. There are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. In order to compete successfully in these areas, we
must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, and ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs that may receive regulatory approval before or
after our products and drug candidates, and over those that currently are marketed. Many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as Merck, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Gilead,
Johnson & Johnson, Novartis, Pfizer, Abbott, Sanofi and Roche, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. 


        In
addition to the initial competition from Merck's VICTRELIS, we are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for HCV infection including HCV protease
inhibitors, HCV nucleotide analogues, non-nucleoside HCV polymerase inhibitors, HCV NS5A inhibitors and advanced interferons. Although drug development is a lengthy process and involves a
high degree of risk, we expect that over the next several years one or more of these competitive HCV drug candidates may be approved for marketing in the United States and elsewhere in the world. As a
result, the longer-term commercial prospects for INCIVEK and VX-222, ALS-2200 and ALS-2158, if approved, will depend on, among other
factors:



•the efficacy, safety, tolerability and other characteristics of INCIVEK and VX-222, ALS-2200 and
ALS-2158, if approved, relative to existing and future treatments for HCV infection; 
•our ability to establish INCIVEK and/or VX-222, ALS-2200 and/or ALS-2158, if approved,
as a significant component of any approved all-oral therapy or shorter-duration therapy for the treatment of HCV infection; and 
•the clinical data obtained and timing of marketing approvals for drug candidates being developed by our competitors,
including any all-oral therapy or shorter-duration therapy for the treatment of HCV infection. 


        It
is possible that one or more competing therapies for the treatment of HCV infection could be developed with a better efficacy, safety and/or tolerability profile than our
telaprevir-based treatment regimens, which would negatively affect INCIVEK and INCIVO sales and could negatively affect our business and financial condition. 

 If we discover safety issues with our products that were not known at the time of approval or if we fail to comply with continuing United States and applicable foreign
regulations, commercialization efforts for our products could be negatively affected, approved products could lose their approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially
harmed.  

        Our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. Drugs are more
widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as
prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial
sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. The reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public
speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. 

        If
we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory
approvals for specific drugs, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. In addition, the 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

manufacturers
we engage to make our products and the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made are subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA and foreign regulatory
authorities. If problems are identified during the review or inspection of these manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, it could result in our inability to use the facility to make our product or
a determination that inventories are not safe for commercial sale. 

 If physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues in future periods.  

        Our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. Effectively marketing INCIVEK and KALYDECO, and any
of our other drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. Physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request
or take them, for a variety of reasons including:



•lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to other drugs;  
•prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; 
•lack of cost-effectiveness; 
•lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; 
•a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our
applicable drug; 
•convenience and ease of administration; 
•other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and 
•ineffective marketing and/or distribution support. 


        If
our drugs fail to achieve and maintain market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. 

 Government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. If they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement
rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed.  

        In both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of products depends in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party
payors. Third-party payors include government health programs such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. Governments and other third-party
payors seek to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is
subject to governmental control. In the United States, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control.
The recently enacted ACA will require discounts under the Medicare drug benefit program and increases the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by Medicaid. In addition, the ACA
imposes an annual fee, which will increase annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. The financial impact of these discounts, increased rebates and fees and the other provisions of
the ACA on our business is unclear, and there can be no assurance that our business will not be materially harmed by future implementation of the ACA. 


        In
addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that
they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. As a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. We might need to conduct post-marketing studies
in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our drugs or any other future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. 

35




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

Such
studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management's time and financial and other resources. Our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective.
Adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 

        Reimbursement
rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that
already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in Medicare or Medicaid data used to
calculate these rates. Net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts. While we have implemented
policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the United States federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and
biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. Any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and the commercial success of
our products. 

        Any
legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. 


 If we market any of our products in a manner that violates federal or state health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label
promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties.  

        We are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act and the anti-kickback provisions
of the federal Social Security Act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar state and federal laws and regulations. While we have a corporate compliance program
designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full
compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed. 

        The
federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or
to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care
program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and
formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with
physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities
from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny or
penalty if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. 

        Federal
false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing
to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing
free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by
federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, known as "off-label" uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for
non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated "best price" information to the Medicaid Rebate Program. 

36




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Although
physicians are permitted to, based on their medical judgment, prescribe products for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, manufacturers are prohibited
from promoting their products for such off-label uses. We market INCIVEK for adults with genotype 1 HCV infection and KALYDECO for patients six years of age or older with CF who
have the G551D mutation in the CFTR gene, and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of INCIVEK and
KALYDECO in these patient populations. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify
our training or promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal
penalties. It also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of
claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Even if it is
later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources
from other matters. 

        Also
applicable to some of our practices is HIPAA and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care
benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of
individually identifiable health information. 

        The
majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under
Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. In addition, certain states have laws governing the privacy of certain health information, which may differ
from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA, complicating compliance efforts. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion
of a pharmaceutical manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs and criminal fines. Even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into
these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. 

        In
recent years, several states and localities, including California, the District of Columbia, Maine, Minnesota, Nevada, New Mexico, Vermont and West Virginia, have enacted legislation
requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials,
HCP payments and other activities. Similar legislation is being considered in other states. Additionally, as part of the ACA, the federal government has enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine
provisions. The Physician Payment Sunshine provisions will require pharmaceutical manufacturers to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. On December 14,
2011, CMS published a proposed rule and postponed the statute's January 1, 2012 start date for pharmaceutical manufacturers to collect data to be used in fulfilling their reporting
requirements. When the final rules are issued, many of these requirements will be new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements will be significant. If we are
found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. 

        The
ACA also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the
intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or
specific intent to violate it. 

37




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        If
our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including
civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. The risk of our being found in violation of these
laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. Any
action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation
of our business. 

        The
sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. We
have in place policies to govern how we may retain health care professionals as consultants that reflect the current climate on this issue and are providing training on these policies. Any action
against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our
business. 

 Future health care reform measures could hinder or prevent commercial success of our drugs and drug candidates.  

        The United States federal government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing health care reform. Any
government-adopted reform measures could adversely affect the pricing of health care products, including our approved products and/or any future drug candidates approved for sale. The continuing
efforts of governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors for health care products to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices
we believe are fair for our products or any drugs we may develop and commercialize. 

        New
laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to health care availability, methods of delivery or payment for
drugs, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment
may change in the future and become more challenging for any of several reasons, including policies advanced by the U.S. government, new health care legislation or fiscal challenges faced by
government health administration authorities. Specifically, in the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to
change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our current or
future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. As discussed above, the recently enacted ACA may have far reaching consequences for biopharmaceutical
companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for health care in the United States, including changes made in order to
extend medical benefits to those who currently lack health insurance coverage. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the
methodology for reimbursement. If reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our
business could be materially and adversely affected. 

        Further
federal and state proposals and health care reforms in and outside of the United States could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may further limit our
commercial opportunity. Our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the ACA, by the Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or
future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. 

38




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

<A
NAME="ci46701_risks_related_to_development,___ris03887"> 
 
  Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Regulation of our Products and  Drug Candidates        


 Our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. If we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be
successful.  

        In addition to the successful commercialization of INCIVEK and KALYDECO, our business depends upon the successful development and
commercialization of additional drug candidates. Our drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the
FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for sale. To satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy
testing of our drug candidates. Discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or
longer for each drug candidate. Despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not:



•offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs;  
•be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; 
•meet applicable regulatory standards; 
•be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or  
•if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. 


        We
have ongoing or planned Phase 2 clinical trials for a number of our drug candidates. The strength of our company's pipeline of drug candidates, including drug candidates that
could potentially be complementary to INCIVEK (telaprevir) and/or KALYDECO (ivacaftor), will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these Phase 2 clinical trials. Findings, including
toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials as well as results of our clinical trials could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including
the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. Furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical
significance required by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. 

        We
and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in
earlier-stage clinical trials. Accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our
drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. In addition, from time to
time we and our competitors report interim data from our clinical trials, including, with respect to our HCV drug candidates, data regarding patients' HCV RNA levels during treatment or at the
completion of treatment. Interim data from a clinical trial, and in particular interim on-treatment data, may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. 

 If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates.  

        Our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical evaluation, manufacturing
and commercialization. Rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the United States and in most other countries prior to the
commercial sale of drug candidates. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. It is possible that
none of the drug candidates we are developing will be approved for marketing. 

39






<A
NAME="page_ck46701_1_40"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

        The time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the FDA and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years.
Our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval.
We also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug
development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. 

        Any
failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. Any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could
materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the
indicated uses for which we may market the drug. Any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. 

        We
also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party
reimbursement. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign
requirements. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the FDA. In
addition, the FDA may not favorably consider data from clinical trials conducted in foreign jurisdictions. Foreign jurisdictions have
different approval procedures than those required by the FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. 

 If clinical trials for a drug candidate are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected drug candidate could be extended, our costs to develop the drug
candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected.  

        We cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will
cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. Any of the following could delay the clinical
development of our drug candidates:



•ongoing discussions with the FDA or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials
and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; 
•delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that
meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; 
•a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials;  
•the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical
investigator error; 
•inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our
clinical trials; 
•unfavorable FDA or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or
its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; 
•unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials of our drug candidates;  
•serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical
trials; 

40




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or FDA or foreign regulatory authority approval of our
competitors' drug candidates; or 
•action by the FDA or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold on a trial. 


        Our
ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the
nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for
patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. In addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical
evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. Delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in
increased costs and longer development times. 

        We,
our collaborators, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or
patients participating in
such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our
business. 

 We may not successfully develop VX-222 and/or either of the HCV nucleotide analogues we license from Alios and, as a result, we could be subject to significant
impairment charges in future periods.  

        In March 2009, we acquired ViroChem Pharma Inc., or ViroChem, for $100.0 million in cash and 10.7 million shares
of our common stock. We acquired ViroChem primarily in order to secure rights to two non-nucleoside HCV polymerase inhibitors, VX-222 and VX-759, as part of our strategy to
pursue drug candidates that could potentially be developed in combination with INCIVEK and/or our earlier-stage drug candidates. At the time of acquisition, we allocated $525.9 million to
intangible assets related to the in-process research and development associated with the ViroChem drug candidates. In the third quarter of 2011, we determined that the fair value of
VX-759 was zero dollars, which resulted in a $105.8 million impairment charge in the third quarter of 2011. In 2011, we licensed two HCV nucleotide analogues, ALS-2200 and ALS-2158,
from Alios and recorded $250.6 million as an intangible asset on our consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2011, our consolidated balance sheet included intangible assets of
$412.9 million related to VX-222 and $250.6 million related to ALS-2200 and ALS-2158. 


        While
we believe the data from the clinical trials and nonclinical studies to date support the continued development of VX-222, ALS-2200 and ALS-2158 for the treatment of HCV infection,
there are numerous reasons why we may not be able to successfully develop a combination therapy for the treatment of HCV infection that includes VX-222, ALS-2200, ALS-2158 or a combination
of any of them, including:



•data from clinical trials involving compounds evaluated separately may not predict possible outcomes, such as unforeseen
drug interactions, from compounds dosed in combination, which could negatively affect the efficacy and safety profile of the combination therapy; 
•positive results in small clinical trials and nonclinical studies may not be predictive of results in clinical trials
involving large numbers of patients; and 
•favorable results of testing or earlier FDA or foreign regulatory approval of competitors' products with a better product
profile. 


        There
can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop VX-222, ALS-2200 or ALS-2158 alone or in combination, and if we do not
successfully develop these drug candidates we will incur additional impairment charges in future periods related to VX-222 or the HCV nucleotide 

41




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

analogues
licensed from Alios. If we incur a significant impairment charge, the value of our common stock could decrease. 

 If our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our drugs or could be delayed in submitting
regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates.  

        We have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drugs and drug
candidates. These processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. If compliance issues are identified at any point in the
development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. Any later discovery of
previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or
manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the FDA and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for
marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer
responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to
our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. If our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be
subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

<A
NAME="ck46701_risks_related_to_collaborators__ris03001"> 
 
  Risks Related to Collaborators, Manufacturing and Reliance on Third Parties        

 We depend on our collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize our products and some of our drug candidates.  

        We have granted development and commercialization rights for telaprevir to Janssen (worldwide other than North America and Far East)
and to Mitsubishi Tanabe (Far East). We are entitled to royalties from any sales of INCIVO (telaprevir) in Janssen's territories. The success of the commercialization of INCIVO in Janssen's
territories is dependent upon Janssen's sales and marketing efforts, which we do not control and may not be able to effectively influence. If Janssen does not effectively commercialize INCIVO, our
anticipated cash flows from royalties on net sales of INCIVO would be materially harmed. We also in-license ALS-2200 and ALS-2158 from Alios and any loss of this license could materially harm our
efforts to develop an all-oral, interferon-free treatment regimen for HCV infection. 

        The
risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following:



•Our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient
resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following
mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if
collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. 
•Any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may
pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. 

42




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•Collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with
the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. For example, Janssen is evaluating a potentially competitive HCV protease inhibitor in Phase 3 clinical
trials, which could increase the likelihood that Janssen would terminate our collaboration or apply fewer resources to the commercialization of INCIVO. 
•Our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our
agreement with Janssen, termination without cause. Any such termination by Janssen could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or disrupt the commercial sale of INCIVO in
Janssen's territories. 


We depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. We may not be able to
maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control.

        We
rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute INCIVEK (telaprevir) and KALYDECO (ivacaftor) for commercial sale and post-approval
clinical trials, and our drug candidates for clinical trials. As a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our
products and drug candidates, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for
distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. Third-party contract manufacturers, including some in China, supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the European
Union and the United States convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. Establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a
significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. Although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies
in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. 

        We
require a supply of INCIVEK for sale in North America. We believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to
manufacture and distribute INCIVEK. It is also possible that supply of materials that can not be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning. If we underestimate demand, our manufacturing
capacity through
third-party manufacturers may not be sufficient. Also, while we believe we can effectively forecast demand for INCIVEK, we have limited flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in
demand, due to the significant lead times required to manufacture INCIVEK. 


        We
require a supply of KALYDECO in the United States, and we will require a supply of ivacaftor for sale in international markets if we obtain marketing approvals outside of the United
States. We are in the process of establishing secondary sources for our KALYDECO supply needs. Holders of market exclusivity for orphan drugs such as KALYDECO are expected to assure the availability
of sufficient quantities of their orphan drugs to meet the needs of patients. 

        Supply
disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or
customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. Any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials.
Furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for sale and our drug candidates for clinical trials. These modifications may
require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. 

        In
the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns,
either independently or jointly with us. This would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to 

43




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

obtain
a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. 

 We may not be able to attract collaborators for the development and commercialization of our drug candidates.  

        As part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements. We have a number of research programs and
early-stage and mid-stage clinical development programs. At any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a
drug we need to identify a collaborator. Potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or
agree to provide all the funding and directly lead
the development and commercialization of a program. No assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or
at all. If we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on
our investment in the program could be impaired. 

 We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the
completion of such trials or regulatory requirements.  

        We rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions
and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these
activities. Accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design.
If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. Although we believe that there are a number of other
third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. If clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual
expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these trials or in specific circumstances might result in
a requirement that a trial be redone. Accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. 

<A
NAME="ck46701_risks_related_to_intellectual_property"> 
 
  Risks Related to Intellectual Property        

 If our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities.  

        We have numerous issued patents and patent applications pending in the United States, as well as counterparts in other countries. Our
success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain United States and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets
and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. In particular, we believe that composition-of-matter claims are the most significant patent claims
for companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry that focus on small molecule drug candidates that are new chemical compounds. While we have patents or patent applications with
composition-of-matter claims for each of our products and clinical drug candidates, only a portion of these patents have been granted. We cannot be certain that any patents
will issue from our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be
valuable commercially. 

        Due
to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents,
our ability to 

44




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

maintain,
obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. U.S. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time
after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. Similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries. Consequently, we cannot be
certain that we or our licensors were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. If a third party also has filed a U.S. patent
application relating to our products or drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine priority of invention and could lose our patent
position. Furthermore, we may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or drug candidates. 


        Our
patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued
patents. Also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. Our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from
utilizing our technologies. For instance, the issued patents relating to our products or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that
have similar clinical properties. Consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. 


        The
laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and many companies have encountered significant difficulties
in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property
rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. 

        Because
of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a drug candidate, it is possible that, before any of our drug candidates can be commercialized,
any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of our drug
candidates, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. To the extent our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the
extent we have no other patent protection on such drug candidates, those drug candidates would not be protected by patents, and we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity, such as
regulatory exclusivity provided by the FDCA. 

<A
NAME="ck46701_risks_related_to_our_operations"> 
 
  Risks Related To Our Operations        

 Our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, product liability claims could adversely affect
our business.  

        Our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing,
manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. We have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk.
However, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. If a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as
well as pay uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition.
Furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse
publicity is likely to result. 

45




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business.  

        We have expanded our operations in Canada in order to market INCIVEK (telaprevir) and ivacaftor, if approved, in that country, and in
Europe in order to market ivacaftor internationally, if approved. A significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in China,
Japan and the European Union.
Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. Risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries
include:



•differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries;  
•unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements;  
•economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets;  
•compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad;  
•foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; 
•foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other
obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; 
•workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States;  
•production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and  
•business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. 


        These
and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. 

        In
addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under United States law. For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits United States companies and their
representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. In many countries, the health care
professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We also are subject to import/export control laws.
Failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of
an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative
perception of our company in foreign countries. 

 If we acquire or license technologies, resources or drug candidates, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize benefits from the transaction.  

        If appropriate opportunities become available, we might license or acquire technologies, resources, drugs or drug candidates. We might
never realize the anticipated benefits of such a transaction or we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. In particular, due to the risks inherent in
drug development, we may not successfully develop or obtain marketing approval for the drug candidates we acquire. For example, we incurred a $105.8 million impairment charge in the third
quarter of 2011 in connection with VX-759, which we obtained through our 2009 acquisition of ViroChem. Future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of 

46




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

equity
securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets,
which could harm our financial condition. 


 If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer.  

        The number of our employees increased by approximately 18% in each of 2011 and 2010, and we expect to experience additional growth in
2012. Because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct
these activities. In addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. We are planning to move from Cambridge, Massachusetts to Boston,
Massachusetts, and this move must be managed successfully to avoid disruption to our business. While we do not expect the move to result in significant turnover, we cannot be sure that we will be able
to retain all our key scientific, commercial and management employees. We face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. Moreover, the
growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the Boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in
technical fields, and the high cost of living in the Boston and San Diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. Our ability to commercialize our
products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate anticipated growth. If
we are unable to hire qualified personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 

 The loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively affect our business and future growth.  

        Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and
to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. A loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. We have entered into employment
agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. However, the employment
agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. The value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time—such as options and restricted
stock—is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. A failure to retain,
as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our
business and our ability to grow our business. 

 If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected.  


        Our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds.
Although we believe that our safety
procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these
materials can not be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace
safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. Although we maintain workers' compensation
insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities.
We maintain insurance to cover 

47




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

pollution
conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous
materials we generate. Additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial
fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. 

<A
NAME="ck46701_risks_related_to_holding_our_c__ris03111"> 
 
  Risks Related to Holding Our Common Stock and Potential Financing Activities        

 Our stock price may fluctuate.  

        Market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. From January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2011,
our common stock traded between $26.50 and $58.87 per share. The market for our stock, like that of other companies in the pharmaceuticals industry, has from time to time experienced significant price
and volume fluctuations. The future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as:



•the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues, royalty revenues and
operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; 
•prescription data and other information disclosed by third-parties regarding our business or products;  
•announcements of FDA actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug
candidates or those of our competitors or of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors;  
•technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors;  
•government regulatory action; 
•public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors;  
•developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters;  
•developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual
property rights; 
•developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or
stocks in general; 
•business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and 
•general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. 


 Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation.  

        Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the
future. Factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations in the past include variable amounts of product revenues and collaboration revenues, impairment charges and changes in the fair value of
derivative instruments. We cannot accurately predict our future revenues from our products and our revenues from our products could vary on a quarterly basis. Our revenues from our products, and in
particular INCIVEK (telaprevir), may be affected by, among other factors, seasonality and the timing of orders from our significant distributors. Our quarterly results also could be significantly
affected by any future impairment charges we take with respect to intangible assets and changes in the fair value of contingent milestone and royalty payments pursuant to our collaboration agreement
with Alios. Most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a
result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. 

48






<A
NAME="page_cm46701_1_49"> 



































 




Table of Contents 

        These examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these "Risk Factors," could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial
results. Our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. 

 We expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may
result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock.  

        Any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates, and
in particular any new information regarding INCIVEK and competitive HCV products or potentially competitive HCV drug candidates, can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future
prospects. We, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical
conferences. These periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations
regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. The timing of
the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general
preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose
clinical data during medical conferences. In addition, the information that we and our competitors disclose about these trials may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve
interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. 

 We may need to raise additional capital that may not be available.  

        Although we do not have any plans to do so in the near term, we may in the future need to raise additional capital. Any potential
public offering or private placement may or may not be similar to the transactions that we have completed in the past. Any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion
features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends—although we do not intend to pay dividends
for the foreseeable future. Any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may
be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to
obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. Based on many factors, including
general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 

 Outstanding indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests.  

        We are obligated to repay an aggregate of $400.0 million for our convertible senior subordinated notes due 2015, or 2015 Notes,
no later than October 1, 2015. We also are obligated to make semi-annual interest payments on the outstanding principal amount of the 2015 Notes. We may issue additional convertible
debt or incur other types of indebtedness in the future. The level of our indebtedness could affect us by:



•making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service
requirements or other purposes; 
•shortening the duration of available revolving credit because lenders may seek to avoid conflicting maturity dates; 

49




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the
pharmaceutical industry; or 
•potentially requiring the dedication of substantial amounts to service the repayment of outstanding debt, including
periodic interest payments, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. 


 Issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline.  

        As of December 31, 2011, we had 209.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. As of December 31,
2011, we also had outstanding options to purchase 20.9 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $34.23 per share and 8.2 million shares of common stock
issuable upon conversion of our 2015 Notes, at a conversion price of approximately $48.83 per share. Outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock
exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options and restricted stock to employees. In addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted
securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. Sales of substantial amounts of
our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common
stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. 


 We have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to Massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current
management or effectuate a business combination involving Vertex.  

        Our corporate charter and by-law provisions and Massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions
involving an actual or potential change of control of Vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. Our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the Board of Directors.
Our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. We
may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our Board of Directors may determine. The rights of the holders of common
stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Massachusetts state law prohibits us
from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our
voting stock without shareholder approval. As a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. 

50




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

        This Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in particular, the description of our Business set forth in Item 1, the
Risk Factors set forth in this Item 1A and our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in Item 7 contain or incorporate a number
of forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including
statements regarding:



•expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other
gains and losses, including those related to product revenues from sales of INCIVEK and KALYDECO and royalty revenues from net sales of INCIVO and to the intangible assets associated with the ViroChem
acquisition and the Alios collaboration; 
•our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for
VX-222, ALS-2200, ALS-2158, VX-809, VX-661, VX-509, VX-765, VX-787 and our other drug candidates;  
•our ability to successfully market INCIVEK and/or KALYDECO or any of our other drug candidates if we obtain regulatory
approval; 
•our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including
INCIVEK, KALYDECO, VX-222, ALS-2200, ALS-2158, VX-809, VX-661, VX-509, VX-765 and VX-787, and the
expected timing of our receipt of data from our and our collaborators' ongoing and planned clinical trials; 
•the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to support
regulatory filings; 
•our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug
candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; 
•the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to continue investing in
our research and development programs and to develop and commercialize selected drug candidates that emerge from those programs, alone or with third-party collaborators;  
•the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships;  
•potential business development activities; 
•our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and
significant unmet medical needs; 
•our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in Kendall Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts; and  
•our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. 


        Any
or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking
statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from expected results. We also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "Risk Factors" above in this
Item 1A. These are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. Other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there
could also adversely affect us. 

51




 

<A
HREF="#bg46701a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Without
limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are
a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control,
including the factors and uncertainties set forth under "Risk Factors" above in this Item 1A. In addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the
date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. While we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we
specifically disclaim any obligation to
do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements.  

<A
NAME="cm46701_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B