 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Assuming that all of the Marketed Assets are re-leased or repositioned on or prior to September 30, 2014 and assuming the applicable facility revenue parameters are met, we currently expect that approximately $206.8 million of aggregate base rent will be due under the five Kindred Master Leases during the year ending December 31, 2014.  See “Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Senior Living Operations As of December 31, 2013, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 237 of our seniors housing communities, for which we pay annual management fees pursuant to long-term management agreements.  Most of our management agreements with Atria have initial terms expiring December 31, 2027, with successive automatic ten-year renewal periods.  The management fees we pay to Atria under the Atria management 8agreements are equal to 5% of revenues generated by the applicable properties, plus an incentive management fee of up to an additional 1% of revenues based on the achievement of specified performance targets.  Most of our management agreements with Sunrise have terms ranging from 25 to 30 years (which commenced as early as 2004 and as recently as 2012).  The management fees we pay to Sunrise under the Sunrise management agreements range from 5% to 7% of revenues generated by the applicable properties.  For the year ended December 31, 2013, the management fees (including incentive fees) we paid pursuant to our Sunrise management agreements were equal to 6.4% of revenues generated by the applicable properties.  See “Note 3—Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.As managers, Atria and Sunrise do not lease our properties, and, therefore, we are not directly exposed to their credit risk in the same manner or to the same extent as our triple-net tenants.  However, we rely on our managers’ personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our senior living operations efficiently and effectively.  We also rely on our managers to set appropriate resident fees and to otherwise operate our seniors housing communities in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations.  Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, including various rights to terminate and exercise remedies under those agreements as provided therein, Atria’s or Sunrise’s failure, inability or unwillingness to satisfy its respective obligations under those agreements, to efficiently and effectively manage our properties or to provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  In addition, significant changes in Atria’s or Sunrise’s senior management or equity ownership or any adverse developments in their businesses and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—The properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Adverse developments in Atria’s or Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” and “—We have rights to terminate our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise in whole or with respect to specific properties under certain circumstances, and we may be unable to replace Atria or Sunrise if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed” included in  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and “Note 10—Borrowing Arrangements” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Our tenants, operators and managers also compete on a local and regional basis with other healthcare operating companies that provide comparable services.  Seniors housing community, skilled nursing facility and hospital operators compete to attract and retain residents and patients to our properties based on scope and quality of care, reputation and financial condition, price, location and physical appearance of the properties, services offered, qualified personnel, physician referrals and family preferences.  In the case of MOBs, we and our third-party managers compete to attract and retain tenants based on many of the same factors, in addition to quality of the affiliated health system, physician preferences and proximity to hospital campuses.  The ability of our tenants, operators and managers to compete successfully could be affected by private, federal and state reimbursement programs and other laws and regulations.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by healthcare regulation and enforcement” and “—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Insurance We maintain or require in our lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations.  We believe that the amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and the policies required to be maintained by our tenants, operators and managers are customary for similarly situated companies in our industry.  Although we regularly monitor our tenants’, operators’ and managers’ compliance with their respective insurance requirements, we cannot assure you that they will maintain the required insurance coverages, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by our tenants, operators and managers to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  We also cannot assure you that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements, that such insurance coverage will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the policies maintained will fully cover all losses related to our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event, nor can we assure you of the future financial viability of the insurers.We maintain the property insurance for all of our senior living operations, as well as the general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations managed by Atria.  However, Sunrise maintains the general and professional liability insurance for our seniors housing communities and related operations that it manages in accordance with the terms of our management agreements.  Under our management agreements with Sunrise, we may elect, on an annual basis, whether we or Sunrise will bear responsibility for maintaining the required insurance coverage for the applicable properties, but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains the insurance.Through our MOB operations, we provide engineering, construction and architectural services in connection with new development projects, and any design, construction or systems failures related to the properties we develop could result in substantial injury or damage to our clients or third parties.  Any such injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed projects.  Although we maintain liability insurance to protect us against these claims, if any claim results in a loss, we cannot assure you that our policy limits would be adequate to cover the loss in full.  If we sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to pay the difference and we could lose our investment in, or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.For various reasons, including to reduce and manage costs, many healthcare companies utilize different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or captive programs that may provide less coverage than a traditional insurance policy.  As a result, companies that self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  The implementation of a trust or captive by any of our tenants, operators or managers could adversely affect such person’s ability to satisfy its obligations under, or otherwise comply with the terms of, its respective lease, management and other agreements with us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  Likewise, if we decide to implement a captive or self-insurance program, any large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses that we incur could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Additional InformationWe maintain a website at www.ventasreit.com.  The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference only.We make available, free of charge, through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.  In addition, our Guidelines on Governance, our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the charters for each of our Audit and Compliance, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Executive Compensation Committees are available on our website, and we will mail copies of the foregoing documents to stockholders, free of charge, upon request to our Corporate Secretary at Ventas, Inc., 353 North Clark Street, Suite 3300, Chicago, Illinois 60654.10GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONHealthcare RegulationOverviewFor the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 16% of our total revenues and 30% of our total NOI (in each case excluding amounts in discontinued operations) were attributable to skilled nursing and other facilities and hospitals in which our tenants receive reimbursement for their services under governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid. We are neither a participant in, nor a direct recipient of, any reimbursement under these programs with respect to those facilities. Although the properties within our portfolio may be subject to varying levels of governmental scrutiny, we expect that the healthcare industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost control, healthcare management and provision of services, among others.  We also expect that efforts by third-party payors, such as the federal Medicare program, state Medicaid programs and private insurance carriers (including health maintenance organizations and other health plans), to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls upon operators (through changes in reimbursement rates and methodologies, discounted fee structures, the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk or otherwise) will intensify and continue.  A significant expansion of applicable federal, state or local laws and regulations, existing or future healthcare reform measures, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, changes in enforcement priorities, or significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed or reductions in reimbursement rates could have a material adverse effect on certain of our operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.Licensure, Certification and CONsIn general, the operators of our skilled nursing facilities must be licensed on an annual or biannual basis and certified annually through various regulatory agencies that determine compliance with federal, state and local laws to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Legal requirements pertaining to such licensure and certification relate to the quality of nursing care provided by the operator, qualifications of the operator’s administrative personnel and nursing staff, adequacy of the physical plant and equipment and continuing compliance with laws and regulations governing the operation of skilled nursing facilities.  The failure to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory approval or to correct serious deficiencies identified in a compliance survey could prevent an operator from continuing operations at a property, and a loss of licensure or certification could adversely affect a skilled nursing facility operator’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.The operators of our hospitals must meet the applicable conditions of participation established by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) and comply with state and local laws and regulations in order to receive Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement.  Such conditions relate to the type of hospital and its equipment, personnel and standard of medical care, and hospital operators must undergo periodic on-site licensure surveys, which generally are limited if the hospital is accredited by The Joint Commission (formerly the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) or other recognized accreditation organizations.  A loss of licensure or certification could adversely affect a hospital operator’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations, including making rental payments under and otherwise complying with the terms of our leases.In addition, many of our skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are subject to state CON laws that require governmental approval prior to the development or expansion of healthcare facilities and services.  The approval process in these states generally requires a facility to demonstrate the need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services.  CONs, where applicable, are also sometimes necessary for changes in ownership or control of licensed facilities, addition of beds, investment in major capital equipment, introduction of new services or termination of services previously approved through the CON process.  CON laws and regulations may restrict an operator’s ability to expand our properties and grow its business in certain circumstances, which could have an adverse effect on the operator’s revenues and, in turn, its ability to make rental payments under and otherwise comply with the terms of our leases.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Part I,  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Medicare Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing FacilitiesThe BBA also mandated the creation of a prospective payment system for skilled nursing facilities (“SNF PPS”) offering Part A covered services.  Under SNF PPS, payment amounts are based upon classifications determined through assessments of individual Medicare patients in the skilled nursing facility, rather than on the facility’s reasonable costs.  SNF PPS payments, which are made on a per diem basis for each resident, are generally intended to cover all inpatient services for Medicare patients, including routine nursing care, most capital-related costs associated with the inpatient stay and ancillary services, such as respiratory therapy, occupational and physical therapy, speech therapy and certain covered drugs.In response to widespread healthcare industry concern about the reductions in payments under the BBA, the federal government enacted the Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999 (“BBRA”).  The BBRA increased the per diem reimbursement rates for certain high acuity patients by 20% from April 1, 2000 until CMS refined the resource utilization groups (“RUGs”) used to determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities in the 2006 fiscal year.  The BBRA also imposed a two-year moratorium on the annual cap mandated by the BBA on physical, occupational and speech therapy services provided to a patient by outpatient rehabilitation therapy providers, including Part B covered therapy services in nursing facilities.  Although extended multiple times by Congress, relief from the BBA therapy caps expired on December 31, 2009.14Under its final rule updating LTC-DRGs for the 2007 fiscal year, CMS reduced reimbursement of uncollectible Medicare coinsurance amounts for all beneficiaries (other than beneficiaries of both Medicare and Medicaid) from 100% to 70% for skilled nursing facility cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 2005 and set forth various options for classifying and weighting patients transferred to a skilled nursing facility after a hospital stay less than the mean length of stay associated with that particular diagnosis-related group.Under its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2010 fiscal year, CMS recalibrated the case-mix indexes for RUGs used to determine the daily payment for beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities and implemented the RUG-IV classification model for skilled nursing facilities for the 2011 fiscal year.  However, the Affordable Care Act delayed the implementation of RUG-IV for one year, and CMS subsequently modified the implementation schedule in its notice updating SNF PPS for the 2011 fiscal year.In its final rule updating the Medicare physician fee schedule for the 2012 calendar year, CMS set a $1,880 cap on physical therapy and speech-language pathology services and a separate $1,880 cap on occupational therapy services, including therapy provided in skilled nursing facilities, both without an exceptions process.  However, in January 2013, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (Pub. L. No. 112-96) was enacted to lift the caps on therapy services and require a manual review process for those exceptions for which the beneficiary therapy services exceed $3,700 in a year.  The Pathway for SGR Reform Act maintains the status quo for outpatient therapy services by extending the exceptions process for outpatient therapy caps through March 31, 2014.On August 6, 2013, CMS published its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2014 fiscal year (October 1, 2013 through September 30, 2014).  Under the final rule, the SNF PPS standard federal payment rate will increase by 1.3% in fiscal year 2014, reflecting a 2.3% increase in the market basket index, less a 0.5% forecast error adjustment and a 0.5% productivity adjustment mandated by the Affordable Care Act.  CMS estimates that net payments to skilled nursing facilities will increase by approximately $470 million in fiscal year 2014.We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s rules and other federal legislation on the operators of our skilled nursing facilities, but we cannot assure you that current rules or future updates to SNF PPS, therapy services or Medicare reimbursement for skilled nursing facilities will not materially adversely affect our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us” included in  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Under the terms of our lease, management and other agreements, we generally have a right to indemnification by the tenants, operators and managers of our properties for any contamination caused by them.  However, we cannot assure you that our tenants, operators and managers will have the financial capability or willingness to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness to do so may require us to satisfy the underlying environmental claims.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Arising from Our Business—Our leases with Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred generate a meaningful portion of our revenues and operating income; Any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living or Kindred to satisfy its obligations under our agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.In general, we have also agreed to indemnify our tenants and operators against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or relating to, the leased properties at any time before the applicable lease commencement date.  With respect to our senior living operating portfolio, we have agreed to indemnify our managers against any environmental claims (including penalties and clean-up costs) resulting from any condition on those properties, unless the manager caused or contributed to that condition.We did not make any material capital expenditures in connection with environmental, health, and safety laws, ordinances and regulations in 2013 and do not expect that we will be required to make any such material capital expenditures during 2014.CERTAIN U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONSThe following discussion summarizes certain U.S. federal income tax considerations that may be relevant to you as a holder of our common stock.  It is not tax advice, nor does it purport to address all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that may be important to particular stockholders in light of their personal circumstances or to certain types of stockholders, such as insurance companies, tax-exempt organizations (except to the extent discussed below under “—Treatment of Tax-Exempt Stockholders”), financial institutions, pass-through entities (or investors in such entities) or broker-dealers, and non-U.S. individuals and entities (except to the extent discussed below under “—Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. Stockholders”), that may be subject to special rules.The statements in this section are based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), U.S. Treasury Regulations, Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) rulings, and judicial decisions now in effect, all of which are subject to change or different interpretation, possibly with retroactive effect.  The laws governing the U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and their stockholders are highly technical and complex, and this discussion is qualified in its entirety by the authorities listed above.  We cannot assure you that new laws, interpretations of law or court decisions will not cause any statement herein to be inaccurate.16Federal Income Taxation of VentasWe elected REIT status beginning with the year ended December 31, 1999.  We believe that we have satisfied the requirements to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes for all tax years starting in 1999, and we intend to continue to do so.  By qualifying for taxation as a REIT, we generally are not subject to federal income tax on net income that we currently distribute to stockholders, which substantially eliminates the “double taxation” (i.e., taxation at both the corporate and stockholder levels) that results from investment in a corporation.Notwithstanding such qualification, we are subject to federal income tax on any undistributed taxable income, including undistributed net capital gains, at regular corporate rates.  In addition, we are subject to a 4% excise tax if we do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements.  See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements.”  Under certain circumstances, we may be subject to the “alternative minimum tax” on our undistributed items of tax preference.  If we have net income from the sale or other disposition of “foreclosure property” (as described below) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or certain other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, we are subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on that income.  See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Asset Tests.”  In addition, if we have net income from “prohibited transactions” (which are, in general, certain sales or other dispositions of property (other than foreclosure property) held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business), that income is subject to a 100% tax.We also may be subject to “Built-in Gains Tax” on any appreciated asset that we own or acquire that was previously owned by a C corporation (i.e., a corporation generally subject to full corporate-level tax).  If we dispose of any such asset and recognize gain on the disposition during the ten-year period immediately after the asset was owned by a C corporation (either prior to our REIT election, or through stock acquisition or merger), then we generally are subject to regular corporate income tax on the gain equal to the lesser of the recognized gain at the time of disposition or the built-in gain in that asset as of the date it became a REIT asset.If we fail to satisfy either of the gross income tests for qualification as a REIT (as discussed below), but maintain such qualification under the relief provisions of the Code, we will be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable test, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our profitability.  In addition, if we violate one or more of the REIT asset tests (as discussed below), we may avoid a loss of our REIT status if we qualify under certain relief provisions and, among other things, pay a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying asset during a specified period.  If we fail to satisfy any requirement for REIT qualification, other than the gross income or assets tests mentioned above, but maintain such qualification by meeting certain other requirements, we may be subject to a $50,000 penalty for each failure.  Finally, we will incur a 100% excise tax on the income derived from certain transactions with a taxable REIT subsidiary (including rental income derived from leasing properties to a taxable REIT subsidiary) that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis.See “—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT” below for other circumstances in which we may be required to pay federal taxes.Requirements for Qualification as a REITTo qualify as a REIT, we must meet the requirements discussed below relating to our organization, sources of income, nature of assets and distributions of income to stockholders.Organizational RequirementsThe Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association: (i) that is managed by one or more directors or trustees; (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of beneficial interest; (iii) that would be taxable as a domestic corporation but for Sections 856 through 859 of the Code; (iv) that is neither a financial institution nor an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code; (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of 12 months, or during a proportionate part of a shorter taxable year (the “100 Shareholder Rule”); (vi) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year (the “5/50 Rule”); (vii) that makes an election to be a REIT (or has made such election for a prior taxable year) and satisfies all relevant filing and other administrative requirements established by the IRS that must be met in order to elect and to maintain REIT status; (viii) that uses a calendar year for federal income tax purposes; and (ix) that meets certain other tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income and assets.We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have satisfied and will continue to satisfy the organizational requirements for qualification as a REIT.  Although our certificate of incorporation contains certain limits on the ownership of our stock that are 17intended to prevent us from failing the 5/50 Rule or the 100 Shareholder Rule, we cannot assure you as to the effectiveness of those limits.To qualify as a REIT, a corporation also may not have (as of the end of the taxable year) any earnings and profits that were accumulated in periods before it elected REIT status or that are from acquired non-REIT corporations.  We believe that we have not had any accumulated earnings and profits that are attributable to non-REIT periods or from acquired corporations that were not REITs, although the IRS is entitled to challenge that determination.Gross Income TestsWe must satisfy two annual gross income requirements to qualify as a REIT:•At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must consist of defined types of income derived directly or indirectly from investments relating to real property or mortgages on real property (including pledges of equity interest in certain entities holding real property and also including “rents from real property” (as defined in the Code)) and, in certain circumstances, interest on certain types of temporary investment income; and•At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must be derived from such real property or temporary investments, dividends, interest and gain from the sale or disposition of stock or securities, or from any combination of the foregoing.We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with these gross income tests.  If we fail to satisfy one or both tests for any taxable year, we nevertheless may qualify as a REIT for that year if we qualify under certain relief provisions of the Code, in which case we would be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable test.  If we fail to satisfy one or both tests and do not qualify under the relief provisions for any taxable year, we will not qualify as a REIT for that year, which would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Asset TestsAt the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must satisfy the following tests relating to the nature of our assets:•At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by cash or cash items (including certain receivables), government securities, “real estate assets” (including interests in real property and in mortgages on real property and shares in other qualifying REITs) or, in cases where we raise new capital through stock or long-term (i.e., having a maturity of at least five years) debt offerings, temporary investments in stock or debt instruments during the one-year period following our receipt of such capital (the “75% asset test”); and•Of the investments not meeting the requirements of the 75% asset test, the value of any single issuer’s debt and equity securities that we own (other than our equity interests in any entity classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the stock or debt of a taxable REIT subsidiary or the stock or debt of a qualified REIT subsidiary or other disregarded entity subsidiary) may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets (the “5% asset test”), and we may not own more than 10% of any single issuer’s outstanding voting securities (the “10% voting securities test”) or more than 10% of the value of any single issuer’s outstanding securities (the “10% value test”), subject to limited “safe harbor” exceptions.In addition, no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries (the “25% TRS test”).We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have been and will continue to be in compliance with the asset tests described above.  If we fail to satisfy one or more asset tests at the end of any quarter, we nevertheless may continue to qualify as a REIT if we satisfied all of the asset tests at the close of the preceding calendar quarter and the discrepancy between the value of our assets and the asset test requirements is due to changes in the market values and not caused in any part by our acquisition of non-qualifying assets.Furthermore, if we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests at the end of any calendar quarter without curing that failure within 30 days after quarter end, we would fail to qualify as a REIT unless we qualified under certain relief provisions enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.  Under one relief provision, we would continue to qualify as a REIT if our failure to satisfy the 5% asset test, the 10% voting securities test or the 10% value test is due to our ownership of assets having a total value not exceeding the lesser of 1% of our assets at the end of the relevant quarter or $10 million and we disposed of those assets (or otherwise met such asset tests) within six months after the end of the quarter in which the failure was identified.  If we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests for a particular quarter but do not qualify under the relief provision described in the preceding sentence, then we would be deemed to have satisfied the relevant asset test if: (i) following identification of the 18failure, we filed a schedule containing a description of each asset that caused the failure; (ii) the failure was due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect; (iii) we disposed of the non-qualifying asset (or otherwise met the relevant asset test) within six months after the end of the quarter in which the failure was identified; and (iv) we paid a penalty tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the non-qualifying asset during the period beginning on the first date of the failure and ending on the date we disposed of the asset (or otherwise cured the asset test failure).  We cannot predict whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions, and if we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests and do not qualify for the relief provisions, we will lose our REIT status, which would have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Foreclosure PropertyThe foreclosure property rules permit us (by our election) to foreclose or repossess properties without being disqualified as a REIT as a result of receiving income that does not qualify under the gross income tests.  However, in such a case, we would be subject to a corporate tax on the net non-qualifying income from “foreclosure property,” and the after-tax amount would increase the dividends we would be required to distribute to stockholders.  See “—Annual Distribution Requirements” below.  The corporate tax imposed on non-qualifying income would not apply to income that qualifies as “good REIT income,” such as a lease of qualified healthcare property to a taxable REIT subsidiary, where the taxable REIT subsidiary engages an “eligible independent contractor” to manage and operate the property.Foreclosure property treatment will end on the first day on which we enter into a lease of the applicable property that will give rise to income that does not constitute “good REIT income” under Section 856(c)(3) of the Code, but will not end if the lease will give rise only to good REIT income.  Foreclosure property treatment also will end if any construction takes place on the property (other than completion of a building or other improvement that was more than 10% complete before default became imminent).  Foreclosure property treatment (other than for qualified healthcare property) is available for an initial period of three years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional three years.  Foreclosure property treatment for qualified healthcare property is available for an initial period of two years and may, in certain circumstances, be extended for an additional four years.Taxable REIT SubsidiariesA taxable REIT subsidiary, or “TRS,” is a corporation subject to tax as a regular C corporation.  Generally, a TRS can own assets that cannot be owned by a REIT and can perform tenant services (excluding the direct or indirect operation or management of a lodging or healthcare facility) that would otherwise disqualify the REIT’s rental income under the gross income tests.  Notwithstanding general restrictions on related party rent, a REIT can lease healthcare properties to a TRS if the TRS does not manage or operate the properties and instead engages an eligible independent contractor to manage them.  We are permitted to own up to 100% of a TRS, subject to the 25% TRS test, but the Code imposes certain limits on the ability of the TRS to deduct interest payments made to us.  In addition, we are subject to a 100% penalty tax on any excess payments received by us or any excess expenses deducted by the TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the REIT’s tenants and the TRS are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties.Annual Distribution RequirementsIn order to be taxed as a REIT, we are required to distribute dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to our stockholders in an amount at least equal to the sum of (i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income (after tax), if any, from foreclosure property, minus the sum of certain items of non-cash income.  These dividends must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, but may be paid in the following taxable year if (i) they are declared in October, November or December, payable to stockholders of record on a specified date in one of those months and actually paid during January of such following year or (ii) they are declared before we timely file our tax return for such year and paid on or before the first regular dividend payment after such declaration, and we elect on our federal income tax return for the prior year to have a specified amount of the subsequent dividend treated as paid in the prior year.  To the extent we do not distribute all of our net capital gain or at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our REIT taxable income, as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular capital gains and ordinary corporate tax rates except to the extent of our net operating loss or capital loss carryforwards.  If we pay any Built-in Gains Taxes, those taxes will be deductible in computing REIT taxable income.  Moreover, if we fail to distribute during each calendar year (or, in the case of distributions with declaration and record dates falling in the last three months of the calendar year, by the end of January following such year) at least the sum of 85% of our REIT ordinary income for such year, 95% of our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than long-term capital gain we elect to retain and treat as having been distributed to stockholders), and any undistributed taxable income from prior periods, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the excess of such required distribution over the amounts actually distributed.19We believe, but cannot assure you, that we have satisfied the annual distribution requirements for the year of our initial REIT election and each subsequent year through the year ended December 31, 2013.  Although we intend to satisfy the annual distribution requirements to continue to qualify as a REIT for the year ending December 31, 2014 and thereafter, economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations could limit our ability to meet those requirements.We have net operating loss carryforwards that we may use to reduce our annual distribution requirements.  See “Note 13—Income Taxes” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Failure to Continue to QualifyIf we fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT qualification, other than by violating a gross income or asset test for which relief is available under the circumstances described above, we would retain our REIT qualification if the failure is due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect and if we pay a penalty of $50,000 for each such failure.  We cannot predict whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit of this relief provision.If our election to be taxed as a REIT is revoked or terminated (e.g., due to a failure to meet the REIT qualification tests without qualifying for any applicable relief provisions), we would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates (for all open tax years beginning with the year our REIT election is revoked or terminated), and we would not be required to make distributions to stockholders, nor would we be entitled to deduct any such distributions.  All distributions to stockholders (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits) would be taxable as ordinary income, except to the extent such dividends are eligible for the qualified dividends rate generally available to non-corporate holders, and, subject to certain limitations, corporate stockholders would be eligible for the dividends received deduction.  In addition, we would be prohibited from re-electing REIT status for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions of the Code applied.  We cannot predict whether we would be entitled to such relief.Federal Income Taxation of U.S. StockholdersAs used in this discussion, the term “U.S. Stockholder” refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, an individual who is a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia, an estate the income of which may be included in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes regardless of its source, or a trust if (i) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. persons have authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust or (ii) the trust has elected under applicable U.S. Treasury Regulations to retain its pre-August 20, 1996 classification as a U.S. person.  If an entity treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner in the partnership will generally depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership.  Partners of partnerships holding our stock should consult their tax advisors.  This section assumes the U.S. Stockholder holds our common stock as a capital asset.Provided we qualify as a REIT, distributions made to our taxable U.S. Stockholders out of current or accumulated earnings and profits (and not designated as capital gain dividends) generally will be taxable to such U.S. Stockholders as ordinary income and will not be eligible for the qualified dividends rate generally available to non-corporate holders or for the dividends received deduction generally available to corporations.  Distributions that are designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as a long-term capital gain (to the extent such distributions do not exceed our actual net capital gain for the taxable year) without regard to the period for which the stockholder has held its shares.  Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable to a U.S. Stockholder to the extent they do not exceed the adjusted basis of the stockholder’s shares (determined on a share-by-share basis), but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of those shares.  To the extent that distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the adjusted basis of a stockholder’s shares, such distributions will be included in income as capital gains and taxable at a rate that will depend on the stockholder’s holding period for the shares.  Any distribution declared by us and payable to a stockholder of record on a specified date in October, November or December of any year will be treated as both paid by us and received by the stockholder on December 31 of that year, provided that we actually pay the distribution during January of the following calendar year.We may elect to treat all or a part of our undistributed net capital gain as if it had been distributed to our stockholders.  If we so elect, our stockholders would be required to include in their income as long-term capital gain their proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain, as designated by us.  Each stockholder would be deemed to have paid its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such undistributed net capital gain, and this amount would be credited or refunded to the stockholder.  In addition, the tax basis of the stockholder’s shares would be increased by its proportionate share of undistributed net capital gains included in its income, less its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such gains.20Stockholders may not include in their individual income tax returns any of our net operating losses or net capital losses. Instead, we may carry over those losses for potential offset against our future income, subject to certain limitations.  Taxable distributions from us and gain from the disposition of our common stock will not be treated as passive activity income, and, therefore, stockholders generally will not be able to apply any “passive activity losses” (such as losses from certain types of limited partnerships in which the stockholder is a limited partner) against such income.  In addition, taxable distributions from us generally will be treated as investment income for purposes of the investment interest limitations.We will notify stockholders after the close of our taxable year as to the portions of the distributions attributable to that year that constitute ordinary income, return of capital and capital gain.  To the extent that a portion of the distribution is designated as a capital gain dividend, we will notify stockholders as to the portion that is a “20% rate gain distribution” and the portion that is an unrecaptured Section 1250 distribution.  A 20% rate gain distribution is a capital gain distribution to domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts that is taxable at a maximum rate of 20%.  An unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution is taxable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%.Taxation of U.S. Stockholders on the Disposition of Shares of Common StockIn general, a U.S. Stockholder who is not a dealer in securities must treat any gain or loss realized upon a taxable disposition of our common stock as long-term capital gain or loss if the stockholder has held the shares for more than one year, and otherwise as short-term capital gain or loss.  However, a U.S. Stockholder must treat any loss upon a sale or exchange of shares of our common stock held for six months or less as a long-term capital loss to the extent of capital gain dividends and any other actual or deemed distributions from us which the stockholder treats as long-term capital gain.  All or a portion of any loss that a U.S. Stockholder realizes upon a taxable disposition of our common stock may be disallowed if the stockholder purchases other shares of our common stock (or certain options to acquire our common stock) within 30 days before or after the disposition.Medicare Tax on Investment IncomeCertain U.S. stockholders who are individuals, estates or trusts and whose income exceeds certain thresholds are required to pay a 3.8% Medicare tax on dividends and certain other investment income, including capital gains from the sale or other disposition of our common stock.Treatment of Tax-Exempt StockholdersTax-exempt organizations, including qualified employee pension and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts (collectively, “Exempt Organizations”), generally are exempt from U.S. federal income taxation but are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income (“UBTI”).  While many investments in real estate generate UBTI, a ruling published by the IRS states that dividend distributions by a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust.  Based on that ruling, and subject to the exceptions discussed below, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute UBTI.  However, if an Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of our common stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the “debt-financed property” rules.  Social clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations, supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group legal services plans that are exempt from taxation under paragraphs (7), (9), (17) and (20), respectively, of Section 501(c) of the Code are subject to different UBTI rules, which generally require them to characterize distributions from us as UBTI, and in certain circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required to treat a percentage of the dividends from us as UBTI.Special Tax Considerations for Non-U.S. StockholdersAs used herein, the term “Non-U.S. Stockholder” refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a nonresident alien individual, foreign corporation, foreign estate or foreign trust, but does not include any foreign stockholder whose investment in our stock is “effectively connected” with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States.  Such a foreign stockholder, in general, is subject to U.S. federal income tax with respect to its investment in our stock in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals).  In addition, a foreign corporation receiving income that is treated as effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business also may be subject to an additional 30% “branch profits tax” on its effectively connected earnings and profits (subject to adjustments) unless an applicable tax treaty provides a lower rate or an exemption.  Certain certification requirements must be satisfied in order for effectively connected income to be exempt from withholding.Distributions to Non-U.S. Stockholders that are not attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests and are not designated by us as capital gain dividends (or deemed distributions of retained capital gains) are treated as dividends of ordinary income to the extent that they are made out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits. 21Such distributions ordinarily are subject to a withholding tax equal to 30% of the gross amount of the distribution unless an applicable tax treaty reduces or eliminates that tax.  Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits are not taxable to a Non-U.S. Stockholder to the extent that such distributions do not exceed the adjusted basis of the stockholder’s shares (determined on a share-by-share basis), but rather reduce the adjusted basis of those shares.  To the extent that distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the adjusted basis of a Non-U.S. Stockholder’s shares, such distributions will give rise to tax liability if the Non-U.S. Stockholder would otherwise be subject to tax on any gain from the sale or disposition of its shares, as described below.We expect to withhold U.S. tax at the rate of 30% on the gross amount of any dividends, other than dividends treated as attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real property interests and capital gain dividends, paid to a Non-U.S. Stockholder, unless (i) a lower treaty rate applies and the required IRS Form W-8BEN evidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is filed with us or the appropriate withholding agent or (ii) the Non-U.S. Stockholder files an IRS Form W-8ECI or a successor form with us or the appropriate withholding agent properly claiming that the distributions are effectively connected with the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s conduct of a U.S. trade or business.For any year in which we qualify as a REIT, distributions to a Non-U.S. Stockholder that owns more than 5% of our common shares at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of distribution and that are attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests will be taxed to the Non-U.S. Stockholder under the provisions of the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if such gain were effectively connected with a U.S. business.  Accordingly, a Non-U.S. Stockholder that owns more than 5% of our common shares will be taxed at the normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. Stockholder (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals) and would be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return. Distributions subject to FIRPTA also may be subject to a branch profits tax equal to 30% of its effectively connected earnings and profits (subject to adjustments) if the recipient is a foreign corporate stockholder not entitled to treaty relief or exemption. Under FIRPTA, we are required to withhold 35% (which is higher than the maximum rate on long-term capital gains of non-corporate persons) of any distribution to a Non-U.S. Stockholder that owns more than 5% of our common shares which is or could be designated as a capital gain dividend attributable to U.S. real property interests.  Moreover, if we designate previously made distributions as capital gain dividends attributable to U.S. real property interests, subsequent distributions (up to the amount of such prior distributions) will be treated as capital gain dividends subject to FIRPTA withholding.  This amount is creditable against the Non-U.S. Stockholder’s FIRPTA tax liability.If a Non-U.S. Stockholder does not own more than 5% of our common shares at any time during the one-year period ending on the date of a distribution, any capital gain distributions, to the extent attributable to sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests, will not be considered to be effectively connected with a U.S. business, and the Non-U.S. Stockholder would not be required to file a U.S. federal income tax return by receiving such a distribution.  In that case, the distribution will be treated as a REIT dividend to that Non-U.S. Stockholder and taxed as a REIT dividend that is not a capital gain distribution (and subject to withholding), as described above.  In addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to the distribution.  Any capital gain distribution, to the extent not attributable to sales or exchanges by us of U.S. real property interests, generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income taxation (regardless of the amount of our common shares owned by a Non-U.S. Stockholder).  For so long as our common stock continues to be regularly traded on an established securities market, the sale of such stock by any Non-U.S. Stockholder who is not a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder (as defined below) generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax (unless the Non-U.S. Stockholder is a nonresident alien individual who was present in the United States for more than 182 days during the taxable year of the sale and certain other conditions apply, in which case such gain (net of certain sources within the U.S., if any) will be subject to a 30% tax on a gross basis).  A “Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder” is a Non-U.S. Stockholder who, at some time during the five-year period preceding such sale or disposition, beneficially owned (including under certain attribution rules) more than 5% of the total fair market value of our common stock (as outstanding from time to time).In general, the sale or other taxable disposition of our common stock by a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder also will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax if we are a “domestically controlled REIT.”  A REIT is a “domestically controlled REIT” if, at all times during the five-year period preceding the disposition in question, less than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly by Non-U.S. Stockholders.  Because our common stock is publicly traded, we believe, but cannot assure you, that we currently qualify as a domestically controlled REIT, nor can we assure you that we will so qualify at any time in the future.  If we do not constitute a domestically controlled REIT, a Five Percent Non-U.S. Stockholder generally will be taxed in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder with respect to gain on the sale of our common stock (subject to applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals).A 30% withholding tax will be imposed on dividends paid after June 30, 2014 and redemption proceeds paid after December 31, 2016 to (i) foreign financial institutions including non-U.S. investment funds, unless they agree to collect and disclose to the IRS information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. account holders and (ii) certain other foreign entities, 22unless they certify certain information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. owners.  To avoid withholding, foreign financial institutions will need to (i) enter into agreements with the IRS that state that they will provide the IRS information, including the names, addresses and taxpayer identification numbers of direct and indirect U.S. account holders, comply with due diligence procedures with respect to the identification of U.S. accounts, report to the IRS certain information with respect to U.S. accounts maintained, agree to withhold tax on certain payments made to non-compliant foreign financial institutions or to account holders who fail to provide the required information, and determine certain other information as to their account holders, or (ii) in the event that an applicable intergovernmental agreement and implementing legislation are adopted, provide local revenue authorities with similar account holder information or otherwise comply with the terms of the intergovernmental agreement and implementing legislation.  Other foreign entities will need to either provide the name, address, and taxpayer identification number of each substantial U.S. owner or certifications of no substantial U.S. ownership unless certain exceptions apply or agree to provide certain information to other revenue authorities for transmittal to the IRS.Information Reporting Requirements and Backup Withholding TaxInformation returns may be filed with the IRS and backup withholding tax (at a rate of 28%) may be collected in connection with distributions paid or required to be treated as paid during each calendar year and payments of the proceeds of a sale or other disposition of our common stock by a stockholder, unless such stockholder is a corporation, non-U.S. person or comes within certain other exempt categories and, when required, demonstrates this fact or provides a taxpayer identification number, certifies as to no loss of exemption from backup withholding and otherwise complies with the applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules.  A stockholder who does not provide us with its correct taxpayer identification number also may be subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.Backup withholding is not an additional tax.  Rather, the U.S. federal income tax liability of persons subject to backup withholding tax will be offset by the amount of tax withheld.  If backup withholding tax results in an overpayment of U.S. federal income taxes, a refund or credit may be obtained from the IRS, provided the required information is furnished timely thereto.As a general matter, backup withholding and information reporting will not apply to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock by or through a foreign office of a foreign broker.  Information reporting (but not backup withholding) will apply, however, to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock by a foreign office of a broker that is a U.S. person, a foreign partnership that engaged during certain periods in the conduct of a trade or business in the United States or more than 50% of whose capital or profit interests are owned during certain periods by U.S. persons, any foreign person that derives 50% or more of its gross income for certain periods from the conduct of a trade or business in the United States, or a “controlled foreign corporation” for U.S. tax purposes, unless the broker has documentary evidence in its records that the holder is a Non-U.S. Stockholder and certain other conditions are satisfied, or the stockholder otherwise establishes an exemption. Payment to or through a U.S. office of a broker of the proceeds of a sale of our common stock is subject to both backup withholding and information reporting unless the stockholder certifies under penalties of perjury that the stockholder is a Non-U.S. Stockholder or otherwise establishes an exemption.  A stockholder may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules in excess of its U.S. federal income tax liability by timely filing the appropriate claim for a refund with the IRS.Other Tax ConsequencesState and Local TaxesWe and our stockholders may be subject to taxation by various states and localities, including those in which we or a stockholder transact business, own property or reside.  State and local tax treatment may differ from the U.S. federal income tax treatment described above.  Consequently, stockholders should consult their own tax advisers regarding the effect of state and local tax laws, in addition to federal, foreign and other tax laws, in connection with an investment in our common stock.Possible Legislative or Other Actions Affecting Tax ConsequencesYou should recognize that future legislative, judicial and administrative actions or decisions, which may be retroactive in effect, could adversely affect our federal income tax treatment or the tax consequences of an investment in shares of our common stock.  The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are continually under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, resulting in statutory changes as well as promulgation of new, or revisions to existing, regulations and revised interpretations of established concepts.  We cannot predict the likelihood of passage of any new tax legislation or other provisions either directly or indirectly affecting us or our stockholders or the value of an investment in our common stock.23ITEM 1A.    Risk FactorsThis section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, or any other risks and uncertainties that are not addressed below or that we have not yet identified, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected and the value of our securities could decline.We have grouped these risk factors into three general categories:•Risks arising from our business;•Risks arising from our capital structure; and•Risks arising from our status as a REIT.Risks Arising from Our BusinessThe properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Adverse developments in Atria’s or Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.As of December 31, 2013, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, managed 237 of our seniors housing communities pursuant to long-term management agreements. These properties represent a substantial portion of our portfolio, based on their gross book value, and account for a significant portion of our revenues and NOI.  Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, we rely on Atria’s and Sunrise’s personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage our senior living operations efficiently and effectively.  We also rely on Atria and Sunrise to set appropriate resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate our seniors housing communities in compliance with the terms of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations.  For example, we depend on Atria’s and Sunrise’s ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the day-to-day operations of our seniors housing communities.  A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may force Atria or Sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel, but it may not be able to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents.  Any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses, any failure by Atria or Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in Atria’s or Sunrise’s senior management or equity ownership could adversely affect the income we receive from our seniors housing communities and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.As managers, Atria and Sunrise do not lease our properties, and, therefore, we are not directly exposed to their credit risk in the same manner or to the same extent as our triple-net tenants.  However, any adverse developments in Atria’s or Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  If Atria or Sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties due to a weak economy or otherwise, such difficulties could result in, among other adverse events, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital, the enforcement of default remedies by its counterparties, or the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, any one or a combination of which indirectly could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Our leases with Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred generate a meaningful portion of our revenues and operating income; Any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living or Kindred to satisfy its obligations under our agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.The properties we lease to Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred account for a meaningful portion of our total revenues and NOI, and because our leases with Brookdale Senior Living and the Kindred Master Leases are triple-net leases, we depend on Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties.  We cannot assure you that Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred will have sufficient assets, income and access to financing to enable them to satisfy their respective obligations to us, and any failure, inability or unwillingness by Brookdale Senior Living or Kindred to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  In addition, any failure by Brookdale Senior Living or Kindred to effectively conduct its operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect its business reputation and its ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot assure you that Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable them to satisfy their respective indemnification obligations.24We face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency by our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors.We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors could become bankrupt or insolvent.  Although our lease, loan and management agreements give us the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events, federal laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization.  For example, a debtor-lessee may reject our lease in a bankruptcy proceeding, in which case our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  This statutory cap could be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and any claim we have for unpaid rent might not be paid in full.  In addition, a debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that our lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement, in which case our rights and remedies as a lender, compared to a landlord, generally would be more limited.  If a debtor-manager seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing our remedies against the manager unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case.  In any of these events, we also may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or transition our properties to a new tenant, operator or manager.We have rights to terminate our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise in whole or with respect to specific properties under certain circumstances, and we may be unable to replace Atria or Sunrise if our management agreements are terminated or not renewed.We are parties to long-term management agreements with each of Atria and Sunrise pursuant to which Atria and Sunrise, collectively, provided comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 237 of our seniors housing communities as of December 31, 2013.  Most of our management agreements with Atria have terms expiring December 31, 2027, with successive automatic ten-year renewal periods, and our management agreements with Sunrise have terms ranging from 25 to 30 years (which commenced as early as 2004 and as recently as 2012).  Our ability to terminate these long-term management agreements is limited to specific circumstances set forth in the agreements and may relate to all properties or a specific property or group of properties.  We may terminate any of our Atria management agreements upon the occurrence of an event of default by Atria in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of any license or certificate necessary for operation), subject in most cases to Atria’s right to cure such default, or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Atria.  In addition, we may terminate our management agreements with Atria based on the failure to achieve certain NOI targets or upon the payment of a fee.  Similarly, we may terminate any of our Sunrise management agreements upon the occurrence of an event of default by Sunrise in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of any license or certificate necessary for operation), subject in most cases to Sunrise’s right to cure such default, or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Sunrise.  We also may terminate most of our management agreements with Sunrise based on the failure to achieve certain NOI targets or to comply with certain expense control covenants, subject to certain rights of Sunrise to make cure payments to us, and upon the occurrence of certain other events or the existence of certain other conditions.  We continually monitor and assess our contractual rights and remedies under our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise.  When determining whether to pursue any existing or future rights or remedies under those agreements, including termination rights, we consider numerous factors, including legal, contractual, regulatory, business and other relevant considerations.  In the event that we exercise our rights to terminate the Atria or Sunrise management agreements for any reason or such agreements are not renewed upon expiration of their terms, we would attempt to reposition the affected properties with another manager.  Although we believe that many qualified national and regional seniors housing operators would be interested in managing our seniors housing communities, we cannot assure you that we would be able to locate another suitable manager or, if we are successful in locating such a manager, that it would manage the properties effectively.  Moreover, the transition to a replacement manager would require approval by the applicable regulatory authorities and, in most cases, the mortgage lenders for the properties, and we cannot assure you that such approvals would be granted on a timely basis, if at all.  Any inability to replace, or a lengthy delay in replacing, Atria or Sunrise as the manager of our seniors housing communities following termination or non-renewal of the applicable management agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.25If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays, limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases beyond their current term.  If our leases with Brookdale Senior Living, the Kindred Master Leases or any of our other leases are not renewed, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator.  In case of non-renewal, we generally have one year prior to expiration of the lease term to arrange for repositioning of the properties and our tenants are required to continue to perform all of their obligations (including the payment of all rental amounts) for the non-renewed assets until such expiration.  However, following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant or operator in default, rental payments on the related properties could decline or cease altogether while we reposition the properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator.  We also might not be successful in identifying suitable replacements or entering into leases or other arrangements with new tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all, and we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned.  In addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.In the event of non-renewal or a tenant default, our ability to reposition our properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules, and we could incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or change-of-ownership proceedings.  Our ability to locate and attract suitable replacement tenants also could be impaired by the specialized healthcare uses or contractual restrictions on use of the properties, and we may be forced to spend substantial amounts to adapt the properties to other uses.  Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant default and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Moreover, in connection with certain of our properties, we have entered into intercreditor agreements with the tenants’ lenders or tri-party agreements with our lenders.  Our ability to exercise remedies under the applicable leases or management agreements or to reposition the applicable properties may be significantly delayed or limited by the terms of the intercreditor agreement or tri-party agreement. Any such delay or limit on our rights and remedies could adversely affect our ability to mitigate our losses and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  Merger and acquisition activity or consolidation in the seniors housing and healthcare industries resulting in a change of control of, or a competitor’s investment in, one or more of our tenants, operators or managers could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.The seniors housing and healthcare industries have recently experienced increased consolidation, including among owners of real estate and care providers.  We compete with other healthcare REITs, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders, real estate partnerships, banks, insurance companies, private equity firms and other investors that pursue a variety of investments, which may include investments in our tenants, operators or managers.  A competitor’s investment in one of our tenants, operators or managers could enable our competitor to influence that tenant’s, operator’s or manager’s business and strategy in a manner that impairs our relationship with the tenant, operator or manager or is otherwise adverse to our interests.  Depending on our contractual agreements and the specific facts and circumstances, we may have the right to consent to, or otherwise exercise rights and remedies, including termination rights, on account of, a competitor’s investment in, a change of control of, or other transactions impacting a tenant, operator or manager.  In deciding whether to exercise our rights and remedies, including termination rights, we assess numerous factors, including legal, contractual, regulatory, business and other relevant considerations.  In addition, in connection with any change of control of a tenant, operator or manager, the tenant’s, operator’s or manager’s management team may change, which could lead to a change in the tenant’s, operator’s or manager’s strategy or adversely affect the business of the tenant, operator or manager, either of which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  Our pursuit of investments in and acquisitions of, or our development or redevelopment of, seniors housing and      healthcare assets may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations.An important part of our business strategy is to continue to expand and diversify our portfolio through accretive acquisition, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities in domestic and international seniors housing and healthcare properties.  Our execution of this strategy by successfully identifying, securing and closing beneficial transactions is made more challenging by increased competition and can be affected by many factors, including our relationships with current and prospective clients, our ability to obtain debt and equity capital at costs comparable to or better than our competitors, and our ability to negotiate favorable terms with property owners seeking to sell and other contractual counterparties.  Our competitors for these opportunities include other healthcare REITs, real estate partnerships, healthcare providers, healthcare 26lenders and other investors, including developers, banks, insurance companies, pension funds, government-sponsored entities and private equity firms, some of whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do.  See “Business—Competition” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  If we are unsuccessful at identifying and capitalizing on investment, acquisition, development and redevelopment opportunities, our growth and profitability may be adversely affected.  Investments in and acquisitions of seniors housing and healthcare properties entail risks associated with real estate investments generally, including risks that the investment’s performance will fail to meet expectations, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will underperform.  Investments outside the United States raise legal, economic and market risks associated with doing business in foreign countries, such as currency exchange fluctuations, costly regulatory requirements and foreign tax risks.  Domestic and international real estate development and redevelopment projects present additional risks, including construction delays or cost overruns that increase expenses, the inability to obtain required zoning, occupancy and other governmental approvals and permits on a timely basis, and the incurrence of significant costs prior to completion of the project.  Furthermore, healthcare properties are often highly customized and the development or redevelopment of such properties may require costly tenant-specific improvements.  As a result, we cannot assure you that we will achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquisition, investment, development and redevelopment opportunities.   Our significant acquisition and investment activity presents certain risks to our business and operations.We have made and expect to continue to make significant acquisitions and investments as part of our overall business strategy.  Our significant acquisition and investment activity presents certain risks to our business and operations, including, among other things, that:•We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations, personnel or systems of acquired companies, maintain consistent standards, controls, policies and procedures, or realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions and other investments within the anticipated time frame or at all;•We may be unable to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, retain key employees or attract highly qualified new employees;•Projections of estimated future revenues, costs savings or operating metrics that we develop during the due diligence and integration planning process might be inaccurate;•Our leverage could increase or our per share financial results could decline if we incur additional debt or issue equity securities to finance acquisitions and investments;•Acquisitions and other new investments could divert management’s attention from our existing assets;•The value of acquired assets or the market price of our common stock may decline; and•We may be unable to continue paying dividends at the current rate.We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate acquisitions and investments without encountering difficulties or that any such difficulties will not have a Material Adverse Effect on us.If the liabilities we assume in connection with acquisitions are greater than expected, or if there are unknown liabilities, our business could be materially and adversely affected.We may assume or incur liabilities in connection with our acquisitions, including, in some cases, contingent liabilities.  As we integrate these acquisitions, we may learn additional information about the sellers, the properties, their operations and their liabilities that adversely affects us, such as:•Liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions;•Unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the sellers;•Liabilities, claims and litigation, including indemnification obligations, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to or following our acquisition;•Claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the sellers; and•Liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition.As a result, we cannot assure you that our past or future acquisitions will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business.  Among other things, if the liabilities we assume in connection with acquisitions are greater than expected, or if we discover 27obligations relating to the acquired properties or businesses of which we were not aware at the time of acquisition, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Our investments are concentrated in seniors housing and healthcare real estate, making us more vulnerable economically to adverse changes in the real estate market and the seniors housing and healthcare industries than if our investments were diversified.We invest primarily in seniors housing and healthcare properties and are constrained by the terms of our existing indebtedness from making investments outside those industries.  This investment focus exposes us to greater economic risk than if our portfolio were to include real estate assets in other industries or assets unrelated to real estate.  The healthcare industry is highly regulated, and changes in government regulation and reimbursement can have material adverse consequences on its participants, some of which may be unintended.  The healthcare industry is also highly competitive, and our operators and managers may encounter increased competition for residents and patients, including with respect to the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the properties, price and location.  If our tenants, operators and managers are unable to successfully compete with other operators and managers by maintaining profitable occupancy and rate levels, their ability to meet their respective obligations to us may be materially adversely affected.  We cannot assure you that future changes in government regulation will not adversely affect the healthcare industry, including our seniors housing and healthcare operations, tenants and operators, nor can we be certain that our tenants, operators and managers will achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to satisfy their obligations to us.  Any adverse changes in the regulation of the healthcare industry or the competitiveness of our tenants, operators and managers could have a more pronounced effect on us than if we had investments outside the seniors housing and healthcare industries.Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and our ability to quickly sell or exchange our properties in response to changes in economic or other conditions is limited.  In the event we market any of our properties for sale, the value of those properties and our ability to sell at prices or on terms acceptable to us could be adversely affected by a downturn in the real estate industry or any economic weakness in the seniors housing and healthcare industries.  In addition, transfers of healthcare properties may be subject to regulatory approvals that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial properties.  We cannot assure you that we will recognize the full value of any property that we sell for liquidity or other reasons, and the inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.Our operating assets expose us to various operational risks, liabilities and claims that could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues or increase our costs and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Our senior living and MOB operating assets expose us to various operational risks, liabilities and claims that could increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, thereby reducing our profitability.  These operational risks include fluctuations in occupancy levels, the inability to achieve economic resident fees (including anticipated increases in those fees), increases in the cost of food, materials, energy, labor (as a result of unionization or otherwise) or other services, rent control regulations, national and regional economic conditions, the imposition of new or increased taxes, capital expenditure requirements, professional and general liability claims, and the availability and cost of professional and general liability insurance.  Any one or a combination of these factors could result in operating deficiencies in our senior living operations or MOB operations reportable business segments, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Increased construction in the markets in which our seniors housing communities and MOBs are located could adversely affect our future occupancy rates, operating margins and profitability.Limited barriers to entry in the seniors housing and MOB industries could lead to the development of new seniors housing communities or MOBs that outpaces demand.  If development outpaces demand for those assets in the markets in which our properties are located, those markets may become saturated and we could experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability.We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent rent escalators, which could hinder our growth and profitability.We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing assets under long-term triple-net leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates subject to annual escalations. The annual escalations in certain of our leases may be contingent upon the achievement of specified revenue parameters or based on changes in CPI, with caps and floors. If, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the properties subject to these leases do not generate sufficient revenue to achieve the specified rent escalation parameters or CPI does not increase, our growth and profitability may be hindered by these leases.  In addition, if 28strong economic conditions result in significant increases in CPI, but the escalations under our leases are capped, our growth and profitability may be limited.We own certain properties subject to ground lease, air rights or other restrictive agreements that limit our uses of the properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer the properties and expose us to loss of the properties if such agreements are breached by us or terminated.Our investments in MOBs and other properties may be made through leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are located, leases of air rights for the space above the land on which the buildings are located, or other similar restrictive arrangements.  Many of these ground lease, air rights and other restrictive agreements impose significant limitations on our uses of the subject properties, restrict our ability to sell or otherwise transfer our interests in the properties or restrict the leasing of the properties.  These restrictions may limit our ability to timely sell or exchange the properties, impair the properties’ value or negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties.  In addition, we could lose our interests in the subject properties if the ground lease, air rights or other restrictive agreements are breached by us or terminated.We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our loans and other investments, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully sell any acquired equity interests or reposition any acquired properties, which could adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.If a borrower defaults under mortgage or other secured loans for which we are the lender, we may attempt to foreclose on the collateral securing those loans, including by acquiring any pledged equity interests or acquiring title to the subject properties, to protect our investment.  In response, the defaulting borrower may contest our enforcement of foreclosure or other available remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other available remedies, or bring claims against us for lender liability.  If a defaulting borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other available remedies against the borrower unless relief is first obtained from the court with jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case.  In addition, we may be subject to intercreditor or tri-party agreements that delay, impact, govern or limit our ability to foreclose on a lien securing a loan or otherwise delay or limit our pursuit of our rights and remedies.  Any such delay or limit on our ability to pursue our rights or remedies could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Even if we successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our mortgage loans and other investments, costs related to enforcement of our remedies, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the collateral could prevent us from realizing the full amount of our secured loans, and we could be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses.  Moreover, the collateral may include equity interests that we are unable to sell due to securities law restrictions or otherwise, or properties that we are unable to reposition with new tenants or operators on a timely basis, if at all, or without making improvements or repairs.  Any delay or costs incurred in selling or repositioning acquired collateral could adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by healthcare regulation and enforcement.Regulation of the long-term healthcare industry generally has intensified over time both in the number and type of regulations and in the efforts to enforce those regulations.  This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-facility providers like Atria, Sunrise, Brookdale Senior Living and Kindred.  Federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry include those relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient rights, fraudulent or abusive behavior, and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by healthcare providers.  In addition, changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments have resulted in an increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal penalties.  See “Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We are unable to predict the scope of future federal, state and local regulations and legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation, and any changes in the regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our tenants, operators and managers, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.If our tenants, operators and managers fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their businesses and the operation of our properties, they could become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of new patients or residents, suffer civil or criminal penalties or be required to make significant changes to their operations.  Our tenants, operators and managers also could face increased costs related to healthcare regulation, such as the Affordable Care Act, or be forced to expend considerable resources in responding to an investigation or other enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations.  In such event, the 29results of operations and financial condition of our tenants, operators and managers and the results of operations of our properties operated or managed by those entities could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and operators and on us.Certain of our tenants and operators rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues.  Federal and state legislators and regulators have adopted or proposed various cost-containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare providers, and budget crises and financial shortfalls have caused states to implement or consider Medicaid rate freezes or cuts.  See “Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Private third-party payors also have continued their efforts to control healthcare costs.  We cannot assure you that our tenants and operators who currently depend on governmental or private payor reimbursement will be adequately reimbursed for the services they provide.  Significant limits by governmental and private third-party payors on the scope of services reimbursed or on reimbursement rates and fees, whether from legislation, administrative actions or private payor efforts, could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of certain of our tenants and operators, which could affect adversely their ability to comply with the terms of our leases and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.The hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs.Our MOB operations depend on the competitiveness and financial viability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients to our MOBs.  The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition for patients, physicians and physician groups, demographic trends in the surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated health systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital.  If a hospital on or near whose campus one of our MOBs is located fails or becomes unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated health system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may be unable to compete successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients.  Because we rely on  proximity to and affiliations with hospitals to create leasing demand in our MOBs, a hospital’s inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could materially adversely affect our MOB operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.We may not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and health system clients.The success of our MOB operations depends, to a large extent, on our past, current and future relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems.  We invest significant amounts of time in developing our relationships with both new and existing clients, and these relationships have helped us to secure acquisition and development opportunities, as well as other advisory, property management and hospital project management projects.  If our relationships with hospitals and their affiliated health systems deteriorate, or if a conflict of interest or non-compete arrangement prevents us from expanding these relationships, our ability to secure new acquisition and development opportunities or other advisory, property management and hospital project management projects could be impaired and our professional reputation within the industry could be damaged.Our development and redevelopment projects, including projects undertaken on a fee-for-service basis or through our joint ventures, may not yield anticipated returns.We consider and, when appropriate, invest in various development and redevelopment projects.  In deciding whether to make an investment in a particular project, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of the property.  Our assumptions are subject to risks generally associated with development and redevelopment projects, including, among others, that:•We may be unable to obtain financing for the project on favorable terms or at all;•We may not complete the project on schedule or within budgeted amounts;•We may encounter delays in obtaining or fail to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, environmental and other governmental permits and authorizations, or underestimate the costs necessary to develop or redevelop the property to market standards;30•Construction or other delays may provide tenants or residents the right to terminate preconstruction leases or cause us to incur additional costs;•Volatility in the price of construction materials or labor may increase our project costs;•In the case of our MOB developments, hospitals or health systems may maintain significant decision-making authority with respect to the development schedule;•Our builders may fail to perform or satisfy the expectations of our clients or prospective clients;•We may incorrectly forecast risks associated with development in new geographic regions;•Tenants may not lease space at the quantity or rental rate levels or on the schedule projected;•Demand for our project may decrease prior to completion, including due to competition from other developments; and•Lease rates and rents at newly developed or redeveloped properties may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control, including market and economic conditions.In MOB development projects that we undertake on a fee-for-service basis, we generally construct properties for clients in exchange for a fixed fee, which creates additional risks such as the inability to pass on increased labor and construction material costs to our clients, development and construction delays that could give our counterparties the right to receive penalties from us, and bankruptcy or default by our contractors.  We attempt to mitigate these risks by establishing certain limits on our obligations, shifting some of the risk to the general contractor or seeking other legal protections, but we cannot assure you that our mitigation efforts will be effective.  In connection with these projects, we provide engineering, construction and architectural services, and any design, construction or systems failures related to the properties we develop could result in substantial injury or damage to clients or third parties.  Any such injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed projects.  Although we maintain liability insurance to protect us against these claims, if any claim results in a loss, we cannot assure you that our policy limits would be adequate to cover the loss in full.  If we sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to fund the difference and could lose our investment in, or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.If any of the risks described above occur, our development and redevelopment projects, including projects undertaken on a fee-for-service basis or through our joint ventures, may not yield anticipated returns, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Our investments in joint ventures and unconsolidated entities could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our joint venture partners’ financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners, and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners.As of December 31, 2013, we owned 27 MOBs, nine seniors housing communities, six skilled nursing facilities and one hospital through consolidated joint ventures, and we had ownership interests ranging between 5% and 25% in 18 MOBs, 20 seniors housing communities and 14 skilled nursing facilities through investments in unconsolidated entities.  In addition, we had a 34% ownership interest in Atria as of December 31, 2013.  These joint ventures and unconsolidated entities involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following:•We may be unable to take actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners under arrangements that require us to share decision-making authority over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the property;•For joint ventures in which we have a noncontrolling interest, our joint venture partners may take actions that we oppose;•Our ability to sell or transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted if we fail to obtain the prior consent of our joint venture partners;•Our joint venture partners may become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which could delay construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture;•Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to a property that conflict with our business interests and goals, including with respect to the timing, terms and strategies for investment, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property;31•Disagreements with our joint venture partners could result in litigation or arbitration that increases our expenses, distracts our officers and directors, and disrupts the day-to-day operations of the property, including by delaying important decisions until the dispute is resolved; and•We may suffer losses as a result of actions taken by our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments.Events that adversely affect the ability of seniors and their families to afford daily resident fees at our seniors housing communities could cause our occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations to decline.Assisted and independent living services generally are not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.  Substantially all of the resident fee revenues generated by our senior living operations, therefore, are derived from private pay sources consisting of the income or assets of residents or their family members.  In light of the significant expense associated with building new properties and staffing and other costs of providing services, typically only seniors with income or assets that meet or exceed the comparable region median can afford the daily resident and care fees at our seniors housing communities, and a weak economy, depressed housing market or changes in demographics could adversely affect their continued ability to do so.  If the managers of our seniors housing communities are unable to attract and retain seniors that have sufficient income, assets or other resources to pay the fees associated with assisted and independent living services, the occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations of our senior living operations could decline, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Termination of resident lease agreements in our seniors housing communities could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.State regulations generally require assisted living communities to have a written lease agreement with each resident that permits the resident to terminate his or her lease for any reason on reasonable notice, unlike typical apartment lease agreements that have initial terms of one year or longer.  Consistent with these regulations, the managers of our seniors housing communities generally enter into resident lease agreements that allow residents to terminate their lease agreements on 30 days’ notice.  Due to these lease termination rights and the advanced age of the residents, the resident turnover rate in our seniors housing communities may be difficult to predict.  If a large number of resident lease agreements terminate at or around the same time, and if the affected units remain unoccupied, our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.The amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers may not adequately insure against losses.We maintain or require in our lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of insurance on our properties and their operations.  Although we regularly review the amount and scope of insurance provided by our policies and required to be maintained by our tenants, operators and managers and believe the coverage provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry, we cannot assure you that we or our tenants, operators and managers will continue to be able to maintain adequate levels of insurance.  We also cannot assure you that we or our tenants, operators and managers will maintain the required coverages, that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance under our lease, management and other agreements, that such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the policies maintained will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event, nor can we make any guaranty as to the future financial viability of the insurers that underwrite our policies and the policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers.For various reasons, including to reduce and manage costs, many healthcare companies utilize different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or captive programs that may provide less insurance coverage than a traditional insurance policy.  Companies that insure any part of their general and professional liability risks through their own captive limited purpose entities generally estimate the future cost of general and professional liability through actuarial studies that rely primarily on historical data.  However, due to the rise in the number and severity of professional claims against healthcare providers, these actuarial studies may underestimate the future cost of claims, and reserves for future claims may not be adequate to cover the actual cost of those claims.  As a result, the tenants and operators of our properties who self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses, which could materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their obligations to us.  If we or the managers of our senior living operations decide to implement a captive or self-insurance program, any large funded and unfunded general and professional liability expenses incurred could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur substantial liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property.  Following the occurrence of such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations 32related to the property.  We cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future.Significant legal actions could subject us or our tenants, operators and managers to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our or their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.From time to time, we may be subject to claims brought against us in lawsuits and other legal proceedings arising out of our alleged actions or the alleged actions of our tenants, operators and managers for which such tenants, operators and managers may have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless.  An unfavorable resolution of any such pending or future litigation could materially adversely affect our or their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.In certain cases, we and our tenants, operators and managers may be subject to professional liability claims brought by plaintiffs’ attorneys seeking significant punitive damages and attorneys’ fees.  Due to the historically high frequency and severity of professional liability claims against seniors housing and healthcare providers, the availability of professional liability insurance has decreased and the premiums on such insurance coverage remain costly.  As a result, insurance protection against such claims may not be sufficient to cover all claims against us or our tenants, operators or managers, and may not be available at a reasonable cost.  If we or our tenants, operators and managers are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or are required to pay punitive damages, we or they may be exposed to substantial liabilities.Reductions in federal government spending, tax reform initiatives or other federal legislation to address the federal government’s projected operating deficit could have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations.President Obama and members of the U.S. Congress have approved or proposed various spending cuts and tax reform initiatives that have resulted or could result in changes (including substantial reductions in funding) to Medicare, Medicaid or Medicare Advantage Plans.  Any such existing or future federal legislation relating to deficit reduction that reduces reimbursement payments to healthcare providers could have a material adverse effect on certain of our operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Our operators may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute.Our operators who engage in business with the federal government may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry.  See “Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  These lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits.  If any of these lawsuits were brought against our operators, such suits combined with increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and on their ability to satisfy their obligations under our leases, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.We could incur substantial liabilities and costs if any of our properties are found to be contaminated with hazardous substances or we become involved in any environmental disputes.Under federal and state environmental laws and regulations, a current or former owner of real property may be liable for costs related to the investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum that are released from or are present at or under, or that are disposed of in connection with such property.  Owners of real property may also face other environmental liabilities, including government fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities and damages for injuries to persons, property or natural resources.  Environmental laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to whether the owner was aware of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum.  In certain circumstances, environmental liability may result from the activities of a current or former operator of the property.  Although we generally have indemnification rights against the current operators of our properties for contamination caused by them, such indemnification may not adequately cover all environmental costs.  See “Governmental Regulation—Environmental Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.Volatility or disruption in the capital markets could prevent our counterparties from satisfying their obligations to us.Interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions could limit the ability of our tenants, operators and managers to obtain capital to finance their businesses on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us.  In addition, any difficulty in accessing capital or other sources of funds experienced by our other counterparties, such as letters of credit issuers, insurance carriers, banking institutions, title companies and escrow 33agents, could prevent those counterparties from remaining viable entities or satisfying their obligations to us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Our success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain talented employees, and the loss of any one of our key personnel could adversely impact our business.The success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees, and our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees could significantly impact our future performance.  Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will retain our key officers and employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals in the future.  Losing any one or more of these persons could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control.  Because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud, effective internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatement and can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements.  If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls as a result of changes to our business or otherwise, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations.Economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic locations to which a greater percentage of our NOI is attributed could adversely affect our financial results.For the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 37.4% of our total NOI (excluding amounts in discontinued operations) was derived from properties located in California (13.3%), Texas (7.6%), New York (6.8%), Illinois (5.0%), and Florida (4.7%).  As a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting these regions, including downturns in the local economies or changes in local real estate conditions, increased construction and competition or decreased demand for our properties, regional climate events and changes in state-specific legislation, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.Our ownership of 12 seniors housing communities in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia subjects us to fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian currency exchange rates, which may, from time to time, impact our financial condition and results of operations.  If we increase our international presence through investments in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing or healthcare assets outside the United States, we may transact business in currencies other than U.S. or Canadian dollars.  Although we may pursue hedging alternatives, including borrowing in local currencies, to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot assure you that such fluctuations will not have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Risks Arising from Our Capital StructureWe may become more leveraged.As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $9.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness.  The instruments governing our existing indebtedness permit us to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, and we may satisfy our capital and liquidity needs through additional borrowings.  A high level of indebtedness would require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the funds available to implement our business strategy and make distributions to stockholders.  A high level of indebtedness could also have the following consequences:•Potential limits on our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and vulnerability in the event of a downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate or healthcare industries;•Potential impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing to execute on our business strategy; and•Potential downgrade in the rating of our debt securities by one or more rating agencies, which could have the effect of, among other things, limiting our access to capital and increasing our cost of borrowing.34In addition, from time to time, we mortgage certain of our properties to secure payment of indebtedness.  If we are unable to meet our mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a resulting loss of income and asset value.We are exposed to increases in interest rates, which could reduce our profitability and adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets or engage in acquisition, investment, development and redevelopment activity, and our decision to hedge against interest rate risk might not be effective.We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing assets under long-term triple-net leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates subject to annual escalations, while certain of our debt obligations are floating rate obligations with interest and related payments that vary with the movement of LIBOR, Bankers’ Acceptance or other indexes. The generally fixed rate nature of a significant portion of our revenues and the variable rate nature of certain of our debt obligations create interest rate risk.  Although our operating assets provide a partial hedge against interest rate fluctuations, if interest rates rise, the costs of our existing floating rate debt and any new debt that we incur would increase.  These increased costs could reduce our profitability, impair our ability to meet our debt obligations, or increase the cost of financing our acquisition, investment, development and redevelopment activity.  An increase in interest rates also could limit our ability to refinance existing debt upon maturity or cause us to pay higher rates upon refinancing, as well as decrease the amount that third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to promptly reposition our portfolio in response to changes in economic or other conditions.We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility with hedging arrangements that involve additional risks, including the risks that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than otherwise would be the case.  Moreover, no amount of hedging activity can fully insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates.  Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make required payments on our debt obligations, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy.We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the capital necessary to meet our debt service obligations, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy, if our cash flow from operations is insufficient to satisfy these needs, and the failure to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  Although we believe that we have sufficient access to capital and other sources of funding to meet our expected liquidity needs, we cannot assure you that conditions in the capital markets will not deteriorate or that our access to capital and other sources of funding will not become constrained, which could adversely affect the availability and terms of future borrowings, renewals or refinancings and our results of operation and financial condition.  If we cannot access capital at an acceptable cost or at all, we may be required to liquidate one or more investments in properties at times that may not permit us to maximize the return on those investments or that could result in adverse tax consequences to us. As a public company, our access to debt and equity capital depends, in part, on the trading prices of our senior notes and common stock, which, in turn, depend upon market conditions that change from time to time, such as the market’s perception of our financial condition, our growth potential and our current and expected future earnings and cash distributions.  Our failure to meet the market’s expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions or a significant downgrade in the ratings assigned to our long-term debt could impact our ability to access capital or increase our borrowing costs.  We also rely on the financial institutions that are parties to our unsecured revolving credit facility.  If these institutions become capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments to us, which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our unsecured revolving credit facility and, over time, could negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make distributions to our stockholders.Covenants in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our operations.The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness require us to comply with certain customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements.  Our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to our compliance with these covenants, which limit our operational flexibility.  Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the applicable debt 35instruments and could trigger defaults under any of our other indebtedness that is cross-defaulted against such instruments, even if we satisfy our payment obligations.  Financial and other covenants that limit our operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from our breach of any of these covenants, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.Risks Arising from Our Status as a REITLoss of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock.If we lose our status as a REIT (currently or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to satisfy our obligations, to implement our business strategy and to make distributions to our stockholders for each of the years involved because:•We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates;•We could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and increased state and local taxes; and•Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified.In addition, in such event we would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock.Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations.  The determination of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control, as well as new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions, may adversely affect our investors or our ability to remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes.  Although we believe that we currently qualify as a REIT, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify for all future periods.The 90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions.To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make distributions to our stockholders.  See “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Such distributions reduce the funds we have available to finance our investment, acquisition, development and redevelopment activity and may limit our ability to engage in transactions that are otherwise in the best interests of our stockholders.Although we do not anticipate any inability to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to do so.  For example, timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand, or non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may prevent us from having sufficient cash or liquid assets to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement.In the event that timing differences occur or we decide to retain cash or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, we may seek to borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay taxable stock dividends, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution requirements.  Any of these actions may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations; however, see “—Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure—Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to make required payments on our debt obligations, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy.” The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in certain of these transactions.To preserve our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation contains ownership limits with respect to our capital stock that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control of our company.To assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation provides that if a person acquires beneficial ownership of more than 9.0% of our outstanding common stock or more than 9.9% of our outstanding preferred stock, the shares that are beneficially owned in excess of the applicable limit are considered “excess shares” and are automatically deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable institution or other qualifying organization selected by our Board of Directors.  The trust is entitled to all dividends with respect to the excess shares and the trustee may exercise all voting power over the excess shares.  In addition, we have the right to purchase the excess shares for a price equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the excess shares or (ii) the market price on the day we purchase the 36shares, but if we do not purchase the excess shares, the trustee of the trust is required to transfer the shares at the direction of our Board of Directors.  These ownership limits could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders.ITEM 1B