Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are beyond our control and
the control of our management.  Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living Information  <P
STYLE="margin-top:6px;margin-bottom:0px; text-indent:4%">Kindred is subject to the reporting requirements of the Commission and is required to file with the Commission annual reports containing audited financial
information and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information. During the fourth quarter of 2005, Brookdale Senior Living completed the initial public offering of its common stock pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1,
which contains combined financial and other information of Brookdale and Alterra. As a result, Brookdale Senior Living is also now subject to the reporting requirements of the Commission and is required to file with the Commission annual reports
containing audited financial information and quarterly reports containing unaudited financial information. The information related to Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living contained or referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is derived from
filings made by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living, as the case may be, with the Commission or other publicly available information, or has been provided to us by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living. We have not verified this information either
through an independent investigation or by reviewing Kindred’s or Brookdale Senior Living’s public filings. We have no reason to believe that this information is inaccurate in any material respect, but we cannot assure you that all of this
information is accurate. Kindred’s and Brookdale Senior Living’s filings with the Commission can be found at the Commission’s website at www.sec.gov. We are providing this data for informational purposes only, and you are encouraged
to obtain Kindred’s and Brookdale Senior Living’s publicly available filings from the Commission.  Certain Information Regarding ElderTrust
Operating Limited Partnership  Not later than the deadline prescribed by the Exchange Act, we will cause ElderTrust Operating Limited
Partnership (“ETOP”) to file an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. Such Annual Report, upon filing, shall be deemed incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 
 3 




Table of Contents

 
TABLE OF CONTENTS   









PART I





 Item 1.
 
 
Business
  
5

 Item 1A.
 
 
Risk Factors
  
25

 Item 1B