Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Kindred Master Leases.  We lease 197
    properties to Kindred. The aggregate annual rent we receive
    under each Kindred Master Lease is referred to as “Base
    Rent.” Base Rent escalates on May 1 of each year at a
    specified rate over the “Prior Period Base Rent” (as
    defined in the applicable Kindred Master Lease), contingent upon
    the satisfaction of specified facility revenue parameters. The
    annual rent escalator is 2.7% under Kindred Master Leases 1, 3
    and 4. The annual rent escalator under Kindred Master Lease 2 is
    based on
    year-over-year
    changes in the Consumer Price Index, with a floor of 2.25% and a
    ceiling of 4%. Assuming the applicable facility revenue
    parameters are met, we currently expect that Base Rent due under
    the Kindred Master Leases will be approximately
    $254.9 million from May 1, 2011 through April 30,
    2012. See “Note 3 — Concentration of Credit
    Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.




    
    5



Table of Contents





    The properties we lease to Kindred pursuant to the Kindred
    Master Leases are grouped into bundles that contain a varying
    number of properties. All properties within a single bundle have
    the same primary lease term of ten to fifteen years from
    May 1, 1998 and, provided certain conditions are satisfied,
    are subject to three five-year renewal terms. Kindred has
    renewed, through April 30, 2013, its leases covering all
    57 properties owned by us with a primary lease term that
    expired on April 30, 2008. Kindred has also renewed,
    through April 30, 2015, its leases covering all 109
    properties owned by us (one of which we subsequently sold in
    June 2009) with a primary lease term that expired on
    April 30, 2010. Kindred retains two sequential five-year
    renewal options for all 165 of these assets.


 


    The current lease term for each of ten bundles covering 89
    properties leased to Kindred will expire on April 30, 2013
    unless Kindred provides us with renewal notices with respect to
    those individual bundles on or before April 30, 2012. The
    ten bundles expiring in 2013 currently represent
    $120 million of annual Base Rent from May 1, 2010
    through April 30, 2011. Each bundle contains six or more
    properties, including at least one hospital. Kindred is required
    to continue to perform all of its obligations under the
    applicable lease for the properties within any bundle that is
    not renewed until expiration of the term on April 30, 2013,
    including without limitation, payment of all rental amounts.
    Therefore, for any bundles that are not renewed, we will have at
    least one year to arrange for the repositioning of the
    applicable properties with new operators. In addition, we own or
    have the rights to all licenses and CONs at the properties, and
    Kindred has extensive and detailed obligations to cooperate and
    ensure an orderly transition of the properties to another
    operator. Nevertheless, we cannot assure you, if Kindred does
    not renew one or more bundles, that we would be successful in
    identifying suitable replacement operators or that we will be
    able to enter into leases with new tenants or operators on terms
    as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all. See
    “Risk Factors — Risks Arising from Our
    Business — We may be unable to reposition our
    properties on as favorable terms, or at all, if we have to
    replace any of our tenants or operators, and we may be subject
    to delays, limitations and expenses in repositioning our
    assets” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Brookdale Senior Living Leases.  Our
    leases with Brookdale have primary terms of fifteen years, which
    commenced January 28, 2004 (in the case of ten “Grand
    Court” properties we acquired in 2004) or
    October 19, 2004 (in the case of the properties we acquired
    in connection with our Provident Senior Living Trust
    (“Provident”) acquisition), and, provided certain
    conditions are satisfied, are subject to two ten-year renewal
    terms. Our leases with Alterra also have primary terms of
    fifteen years, which commenced October 20, 2004 or
    December 16, 2004 (both in the case of properties we
    acquired in connection with our Provident acquisition), and,
    provided certain conditions are satisfied, are subject to two
    five-year renewal terms. Brookdale Senior Living guarantees all
    of Brookdale’s and Alterra’s obligations under these
    leases, and all of our Brookdale Senior Living leases are
    cross-defaulted.


 


    Under the terms of the Brookdale leases we assumed in connection
    with our Provident acquisition, Brookdale is obligated to pay
    base rent, which escalates on January 1 of each year by an
    amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the percentage
    increase in the Consumer Price Index during the immediately
    preceding year or (ii) 3%. Under the terms of the Brookdale
    leases with respect to our “Grand Court” properties,
    Brookdale is obligated to pay base rent, which escalates on
    February 1 of each year by an amount equal to the greater of
    (i) 2% or (ii) 75% of the increase in the Consumer
    Price Index during the immediately preceding year. Under the
    terms of the Alterra leases, Alterra is obligated to pay base
    rent, which escalates on January 1 or November 1 of each year by
    an amount equal to the lesser of (i) four times the
    percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index during the
    immediately preceding year or (ii) 2.5%. The aggregate
    annual contractual cash base rent expected from Brookdale Senior
    Living for 2011 is approximately $113.1 million, excluding
    variable interest Brookdale is obligated to pay as additional
    rent based on certain floating rate mortgage debt assumed by us
    in connection with our Provident acquisition. The aggregate
    annual contractual base rent (computed in accordance with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles
    (“GAAP”)), excluding the variable interest, expected
    from Brookdale Senior Living for 2011 is approximately
    $117.2 million. See “Note 3 —
    Concentration of Credit Risk” and
    “Note 13 — Commitments and
    Contingencies” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.




    
    6



Table of Contents






    Senior
    Living Operations


 


    Sunrise currently provides comprehensive accounting and property
    management services with respect to 79 of our seniors housing
    communities pursuant to long-term management agreements. Each
    management agreement has a term of 30 years from its
    effective date, the earliest of which began in 2004. In December
    2010, we and Sunrise modified the management agreements to,
    among other things, reduce the management fee paid to Sunrise
    for the period from April 1, 2010 through December 31,
    2010 and for all of 2011 to 3.50% and 3.75% per annum,
    respectively, after which the annual base management fee will
    equal 6% of revenues (with a range of 5% to 7%), cap the amount
    of incentive management fees payable to Sunrise and allocated
    “shared services” expenses, provide enhanced rights
    and remedies for us in the event of a Sunrise default and
    reallocate the NOI performance thresholds to include a cushion
    for all 79 communities. See “Note 3 —
    Concentration of Credit Risk” of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Although we have various rights as owner under the Sunrise
    management agreements, we rely on Sunrise’s personnel, good
    faith, expertise, historical performance, technical resources
    and information systems, proprietary information and judgment to
    manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and
    effectively. We also rely on Sunrise to set resident fees and
    otherwise operate those properties in compliance with our
    management agreements. Because Sunrise manages a significant
    portion of our properties, Sunrise’s inability to
    efficiently and effectively manage those properties and to
    provide timely and accurate accounting information with respect
    thereto could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition,
    Sunrise’s inability or unwillingness to satisfy its
    obligations under our management agreements, changes in
    Sunrise’s senior management or any adverse developments in
    Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on us. See “Risk
    Factors — Risks Arising from Our Business —
    The properties managed by Sunrise account for a significant
    portion of our revenues and operating income; Adverse
    developments in Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial
    condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us”
    included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Competition


 


    We generally compete for real property investments with other
    healthcare REITs, healthcare operators, healthcare lenders,
    developers, real estate partnerships, banks, insurance
    companies, pension funds, private equity firms and other
    investors. Some of our competitors may have greater financial
    resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased
    competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and
    successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our
    objectives. Our ability to compete successfully for real
    property investments is affected by, among other factors, the
    availability of suitable acquisition or investment targets, our
    ability to negotiate acceptable acquisition or investment terms
    and our access to and cost of capital. See “Risk
    Factors — Risks Arising from Our Business —
    We may encounter certain risks when implementing our business
    strategy to pursue investments in,
    and/or
    acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing
    and/or
    healthcare assets” included in Item 1A of this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K
    and “Note 9 — Borrowing Arrangements”
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Revenues from our properties are dependent on the ability of the
    operators and managers of those properties to compete with other
    seniors housing and healthcare operators and managers. Operators
    and managers compete on a local and regional basis for
    residents, tenants and patients based on several factors. The
    operators and managers of our seniors housing communities,
    skilled nursing facilities and hospitals compete to attract and
    retain residents and patients based on the scope and quality of
    care and services provided, their ability to attract and retain
    qualified personnel, their reputation and financial condition,
    price, location and physical appearance of the properties,
    physician referrals and family preferences. The managers of our
    medical office buildings compete to attract and retain tenants
    based on many of the same factors, in addition to the quality of
    the affiliated health system, physician preferences and
    proximity to hospital campuses. Private, federal and state
    reimbursement programs and the effect of other laws and
    regulations also may have a significant impact on our
    operators’ and managers’ ability to compete
    successfully for residents, tenants and patients at our
    properties. See “Risk Factors — Risks Arising
    from Our Business — Our tenants,





    
    7



Table of Contents





    operators and managers may be adversely affected by increasing
    healthcare regulation and enforcement” and
    “— Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods
    of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and
    Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on
    certain of our tenants and operators” included in
    Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Employees


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had 263 full-time
    employees, including 196 employees at our Lillibridge
    subsidiary. We consider our relationship with our employees to
    be good.


 



    Insurance


 


    We maintain
    and/or
    require in our existing leases and other agreements that our
    tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of
    insurance on our properties and their operations. For example,
    pursuant to the terms of the Kindred Master Leases, Kindred is
    required to maintain, at its expense, specified types and
    minimum levels of insurance coverage related to the leased
    properties and Kindred’s operations at those properties. We
    believe that our tenants, operators and managers are in
    compliance with the insurance requirements contained in their
    respective leases and other agreements with us; however, we
    cannot assure you that such parties will maintain the required
    insurance coverages, and the failure by any of them to do so
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We also cannot
    assure you that we will continue to require the same levels of
    insurance coverage under our leases and other agreements.


 


    We maintain casualty insurance for our seniors housing
    communities managed by Sunrise, but Sunrise currently maintains
    the general and professional liability insurance covering those
    properties and their related operations in accordance with the
    standards contained in our management agreements. Under the
    management agreements, we may elect, on an annual basis, whether
    we or Sunrise will bear responsibility for maintaining the
    required insurance coverage for our Sunrise-managed properties,
    but the costs of such insurance are facility expenses paid from
    the revenues of those properties, regardless of who maintains
    the insurance.


 


    As part of our MOB development business, we provide engineering,
    construction and architectural services, and design,
    construction or systems failures may result in substantial
    injury or damage to clients
    and/or third
    parties. Injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary
    course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed
    projects. Although we maintain liability insurance, if any claim
    results in a loss, we cannot assure you that our insurance
    coverage would be adequate to cover the loss in full. If we
    sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be
    required to make a payment for the difference and could lose our
    investment in, and/or experience reduced profits and cash flows
    from, the affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on us.


 


    We believe that the amount and scope of insurance coverage
    provided by our policies and the policies maintained by our
    tenants, operators and managers are customary for similarly
    situated companies in our industry. We cannot assure you that in
    the future we or our tenants, operators and managers will be
    able to maintain the same levels of insurance coverage or that
    such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost. In
    addition, we cannot give any assurances as to the future
    financial viability of our insurers or that the insurance
    coverage provided will fully cover all losses on our properties
    upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event.


 


    In an effort to reduce and manage costs and for various other
    reasons, many healthcare providers are pursuing different
    organizational and corporate structures coupled with
    self-insurance programs that may provide them with less
    insurance coverage. As a result, the tenants, operators and
    managers of our properties could incur large funded and unfunded
    professional liability expense, which could have a material
    adverse effect on their liquidity, financial condition and
    results of operations and, in turn, on their ability to make
    rental payments under, or otherwise comply with the terms of,
    their respective leases and other agreements with us, which
    could adversely affect our results of operations.




    
    8



Table of Contents






    Additional
    Information


 


    We maintain a website at www.ventasreit.com. The information on
    our website is not incorporated by reference in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K,
    and our web address is included as an inactive textual reference
    only.


 


    We make available, free of charge, through our website our
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as
    reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. In addition, our
    Guidelines on Governance, the charters for each of our Audit and
    Compliance, Nominating and Corporate Governance and Executive
    Compensation Committees and our Code of Ethics and Business
    Conduct are available on our website, and we will mail copies of
    the foregoing documents to stockholders, free of charge, upon
    request to our Corporate Secretary at Ventas, Inc., 10350 Ormsby
    Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223.


 



    GOVERNMENTAL
    REGULATION


 



    Healthcare
    Regulation


 



    Overview


 


    While the properties within our portfolio are all susceptible to
    many varying types of regulation, we expect that the healthcare
    industry, in general, will continue to face increased regulation
    and pressure in the areas of fraud, waste and abuse, cost
    control, healthcare management and provision of services, among
    others. A significant expansion of applicable federal, state or
    local laws and regulations, previously enacted or future
    healthcare reform, new interpretations of existing laws and
    regulations or changes in enforcement priorities could have a
    material adverse effect on certain of our operators’
    liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, which,
    in turn, could adversely impact their ability to satisfy their
    contractual obligations, including making rental payments under,
    or otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.
    In addition, efforts by third-party payors, such as the federal
    Medicare program, state Medicaid programs and private insurance
    carriers, including health maintenance organizations and other
    health plans, to impose greater discounts and more stringent
    cost controls upon operators (through changes in reimbursement
    rates and methodologies, discounted fee structures, the
    assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the
    financial risk or otherwise) are expected to intensify and
    continue. Significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed
    and on reimbursement rates and fees could also have a material
    adverse effect on certain of our operators’ liquidity,
    financial condition and results of operations, which could
    affect adversely their ability to satisfy their contractual
    obligations, including making rental payments under, and
    otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.


 



    Licensure
    and Certification


 


    Participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs generally
    requires the operators of our skilled nursing facilities to be
    licensed on an annual or bi-annual basis and certified annually
    through various regulatory agencies that determine compliance
    with federal, state and local laws. These legal requirements
    relate to the quality of the nursing care provided,
    qualifications of the administrative personnel and nursing
    staff, the adequacy of the physical plant and equipment and
    continuing compliance with the laws and regulations governing
    the operation of skilled nursing facilities. The failure of an
    operator to maintain or renew any required license or regulatory
    approval or to correct serious deficiencies identified in
    compliance surveys could prevent it from continuing operations
    at a property. A loss of licensure or certification could also
    adversely affect a skilled nursing facility operator’s
    ability to receive payments from the Medicare and Medicaid
    programs, which, in turn, could affect adversely their ability
    to satisfy their contractual obligations, including making
    rental payments under, and otherwise complying with the terms
    of, their leases with us.


 


    Similarly, in order to receive Medicare and Medicaid
    reimbursement, our hospitals must meet the applicable conditions
    of participation set forth by the U.S. Department of Health
    and Human Services





    
    9



Table of Contents





    (“HHS”) relating to the type of hospital and its
    equipment, personnel and standard of medical care, as well as
    comply with state and local laws and regulations. Hospitals
    undergo periodic
    on-site
    licensure surveys, which generally are limited if the hospital
    is accredited by The Joint Commission (formerly the Joint
    Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations) or
    other recognized accreditation organizations. A loss of
    licensure or certification could adversely affect a
    hospital’s ability to receive payments from the Medicare
    and Medicaid programs, which, in turn, could adversely affect
    their ability to satisfy their contractual obligations,
    including making rental payments under, and otherwise complying
    with the terms of, their leases with us.


 


    Seniors housing communities are subject to relatively few, if
    any, federal regulations. Instead, to the extent they are
    regulated, the regulation is conducted mainly by state and local
    laws governing licensure, provision of services, staffing
    requirements and other operational matters. These laws vary
    greatly from one jurisdiction to another. Although recent growth
    in the U.S. seniors housing industry has attracted the
    attention of various federal agencies that believe more federal
    regulation of these properties is necessary, thus far, Congress
    has deferred to state regulation of seniors housing communities.
    However, as a result of this growth and increased federal
    scrutiny, some states have revised and strengthened their
    regulation of seniors housing communities, and more states are
    expected to do the same in the future.


 



    Certificates
    of Need


 


    Skilled nursing facilities and hospitals are subject to various
    state CON laws requiring governmental approval prior to the
    development or expansion of healthcare facilities and services.
    The approval process in these states generally requires a
    facility to demonstrate the need for additional or expanded
    healthcare facilities or services. CONs, where applicable, are
    sometimes necessary for expansion of existing facilities,
    construction of new facilities, changes in ownership or control
    of licensed facilities, addition of beds, investment in major
    capital equipment, introduction of new services or termination
    of services previously approved through the CON process. These
    CON laws and regulations may restrict an operator’s ability
    to expand our properties and grow its business in certain
    circumstances, which could have an effect on the operator’s
    revenues and, in turn, adversely impact us. In addition, in the
    event that any operator of our properties fails to make rental
    payments to us or to comply with applicable healthcare
    regulations, our ability to evict that operator and substitute
    another operator for a particular facility may be materially
    delayed or limited by CON laws, as well as by various state
    licensing and receivership laws and Medicare and Medicaid
    change-of-ownership
    rules. Such delays and limitations could have a material adverse
    effect on our ability to collect rent, to obtain possession of
    leased properties, or otherwise to exercise remedies for tenant
    default. We may also incur substantial additional expenses in
    connection with any such licensing, receivership or
    change-of-ownership
    proceedings.


 



    Fraud
    and Abuse


 


    Various federal and state laws and regulations prohibit a wide
    variety of fraud and abuse by healthcare providers who
    participate in, receive payments from or make or receive
    referrals for work in connection with government-funded
    healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. The
    federal laws include, by way of example, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The anti-kickback statute (Section 1128B(b) of the Social
    Security Act), which prohibits certain business practices and
    relationships, including the payment, receipt or solicitation of
    any remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce a referral
    of any patient or service or item covered by a federal health
    care program, including Medicare or a state health program, such
    as Medicaid;




 



     
        • 

    
    The physician self-referral prohibition (Ethics in Patient
    Referral Act of 1989, commonly referred to as the “Stark
    Law”), which prohibits referrals by physicians of Medicare
    or Medicaid patients to providers of a broad range of designated
    healthcare services with which the physicians (or their
    immediate family members) have ownership interests or certain
    other financial arrangements;




 



     
        • 

    
    The False Claims Act, which prohibits any person from knowingly
    presenting false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal
    government (including the Medicare and Medicaid programs);







    
    10



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which authorizes HHS to impose
    civil penalties administratively for fraudulent acts; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996
    (commonly referred to as “HIPAA”), which among other
    things, protects the privacy and security of individually
    identifiable health information by limiting its use and
    disclosure.





 


    Sanctions for violating these federal laws include criminal and
    civil penalties such as punitive sanctions, damage assessments,
    monetary penalties, imprisonment, denial of Medicare and
    Medicaid payments,
    and/or
    exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. These laws
    also impose an affirmative duty on operators to ensure that they
    do not employ or contract with persons excluded from the
    Medicare and other government programs.


 


    Many states have adopted or are considering legislative
    proposals similar to the federal anti-fraud and abuse laws, some
    of which extend beyond the Medicare and Medicaid programs, to
    prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the referral
    of patients and physician self-referrals, regardless of whether
    the service was reimbursed by Medicare or Medicaid. Many states
    have also adopted or are considering legislative proposals to
    increase patient protections, such as minimum staffing levels,
    criminal background checks, and limiting the use and disclosure
    of patient specific health information. These state laws also
    impose criminal and civil penalties similar to the federal laws.


 


    In the ordinary course of their business, the operators of our
    properties have been and are subject regularly to inquiries,
    investigations and audits by federal and state agencies that
    oversee applicable laws and regulations. Increased funding
    through recent federal and state legislation has led to
    significant growth in the number of investigations and
    enforcement actions over the past several years. Private
    enforcement of healthcare fraud has also increased, due in large
    part to amendments to the civil False Claims Act in 1986 that
    were designed to encourage private individuals to sue on behalf
    of the government. These whistleblower suits by private
    individuals, known as qui tam suits, may be filed by almost
    anyone, including present and former patients or nurses and
    other employees. HIPAA also created a series of new healthcare
    crimes.


 


    As federal and state budget pressures continue, administrative
    agencies may continue to escalate their investigation and
    enforcement efforts to eliminate waste and to control fraud and
    abuse in governmental healthcare programs. A violation of any of
    these federal and state anti-fraud and abuse laws and
    regulations by an operator of our properties could have a
    material adverse effect on the operator’s liquidity,
    financial condition or results of operations, which could
    adversely their ability to satisfy their contractual
    obligations, including making rental payments under, and
    otherwise complying with the terms of, their leases with us.


 



    Healthcare
    Legislation


 


    In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient
    Protection and Affordable Care Act, along with a reconciliation
    measure, the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of
    2010 (collectively, the “Affordable Care Act”). The
    passage of the Affordable Care Act has resulted in comprehensive
    reform legislation that is expected to expand health care
    coverage to millions of currently uninsured people beginning in
    2014. To help fund this expansion, the Affordable Care Act
    outlines certain reductions in Medicare reimbursement rates for
    various healthcare providers, including long-term acute care
    hospitals and skilled nursing facilities, as well as certain
    other changes to Medicare payment methodologies.


 


    The Affordable Care Act, among other things, reduces the
    inflationary market basket increase included in standard federal
    payment rates for long-term acute care hospitals by
    25 basis points in fiscal year 2010, 50 basis points
    in fiscal year 2011, 10 basis points in fiscal years 2012
    and 2013, 30 basis points in fiscal year 2014,
    20 basis points in fiscal years 2015 and 2016, and
    75 basis points in fiscal years 2017 through 2019. In
    addition, under the Affordable Care Act, long-term acute care
    hospitals and skilled nursing facilities will be subject to a
    rate adjustment to the market basket increase, beginning in
    fiscal year 2012, to reflect improvements in productivity.


 


    Healthcare is one of the largest industries in the United States
    and continues to attract a great deal of legislative interest
    and public attention. We cannot assure you that previously
    enacted or future healthcare





    
    11



Table of Contents





    reform legislation or changes in the administration or
    implementation of governmental and non-governmental healthcare
    reimbursement programs will not have a material adverse effect
    on our operators’ liquidity, financial condition or results
    of operations, or on their ability to satisfy their obligations
    to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    us.


 



    Medicare
    Reimbursement; Long-Term Acute Care Hospitals


 


    The Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (“BBA”) mandated the
    creation of a prospective payment system for long-term acute
    care hospitals (“LTAC PPS”), which became effective on
    October 1, 2002 for cost reporting periods commencing on or
    after that date. Under LTAC PPS, which classifies patients into
    distinct diagnostic groups based on clinical characteristics and
    expected resource needs, long-term acute care hospitals are
    reimbursed on a predetermined rate, rather than on a reasonable
    cost basis that reflects costs incurred. LTAC PPS requires
    payment for a Medicare beneficiary at a predetermined, per
    discharge amount for each defined patient category (called
    “Long-Term Care — Diagnosis Related Groups”
    or “LTC-DRGs”), adjusted for differences in area wage
    levels.


 


    Updates to LTAC PPS payment rates are established by regulators
    and published annually for the long-term acute care hospital
    rate year, which historically has been July 1 through
    June 30. However, starting with the 2010 rate year, which
    commenced October 1, 2009, annual rate updates now coincide
    with annual updates to the LTC-DRG classification system, which
    correspond to the federal fiscal year (October 1 through
    September 30).


 


    The Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (Pub. L.
    No. 110-173)
    (the “Medicare Extension Act”) significantly expanded
    medical necessity reviews by the Centers for
    Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) by
    requiring long-term acute care hospitals to institute a patient
    review process to better assess patients upon admission and on a
    continuing basis for appropriateness of care. In addition, the
    Medicare Extension Act, among other things, provided the
    following long-term acute care hospital payment policy changes,
    all of which were extended for two years by the Affordable Care
    Act:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    It prevented CMS from applying the “25-percent rule,”
    which limits payments from referring co-located hospitals, to
    freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals
    for three years;




 



     
        • 

    
    It modified the application of the 25-percent rule to certain
    urban and rural long-term acute care
    “hospitals-within-hospitals” and “satellite”
    facilities for three years;




 



     
        • 

    
    It prevented CMS from applying the “very short stay
    outlier” policy for three years; and




 



     
        • 

    
    It prevented CMS from making any one-time adjustments to correct
    estimates used in implementing LTAC PPS for three years.





 


    Lastly, the Medicare Extension Act introduced a moratorium on
    new long-term acute care hospitals and beds for three years.


 


    On May 22, 2008, CMS published a final rule addressing two
    LTAC PPS payment policies mandated by the Medicare Extension
    Act. The rule delayed the extension of the 25-percent rule to
    freestanding and grandfathered long-term acute care hospitals
    and increased the patient percentage thresholds for certain
    urban and rural long-term acute care
    “hospitals-within-hospitals” and “satellite”
    facilities for three years. The rule also set forth policies on
    implementing the moratorium on new long-term acute care
    hospitals and beds imposed by the Medicare Extension Act.


 


    On August 27, 2009, CMS published a final rule which
    finalized policies to implement changes required by
    Section 124 of the Medicare Improvements for
    Patients & Providers Act of 2008 (Pub. L.
    No. 110-275).
    This rule continued reforms intended to improve the accuracy of
    Medicare payments for inpatient acute care through the
    severity-adjusted diagnosis-related group (MS-LTC-DRG)
    classification system for long-term acute care hospitals.


 


    On August 16, 2010, CMS published its final rule updating
    LTAC PPS for the 2011 fiscal year (October 1, 2010 through
    September 30, 2011). Under the rule, the LTAC PPS standard
    federal payment rate in fiscal year





    
    12



Table of Contents





    2011 reflects a 2.5% increase in the market basket index (before
    taking into account the 50 basis point reduction required
    by the Affordable Care Act), less a 2.5% adjustment to account
    for an increase in case-mix in fiscal year 2008 and 2009 that
    CMS attributes to changes in documentation and coding practices,
    rather than patient severity. CMS estimates that net payments to
    long-term acute care hospitals under the final rule would
    increase by approximately $22.3 million, or 0.5%, in fiscal
    year 2011 due to area wage adjustments, as well as increases in
    high-cost and short-stay outlier payments.


 


    We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s
    rules on the operators of our long-term acute care hospitals,
    but we cannot assure you that the current rules or future
    updates to LTAC PPS, LTC-DRGs or Medicare reimbursement for
    long-term acute care hospitals will not materially adversely
    affect our operators, which, in turn, could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us. See “Risk Factors — Risks
    Arising from Our Business — Changes in the
    reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party
    payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have
    a material adverse effect on certain of our tenants and
    operators” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Medicare
    Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities


 


    The BBA also mandated the creation of a prospective payment
    system for skilled nursing facilities (“SNF PPS”)
    offering Part A covered services. Under SNF PPS, payment
    amounts are based upon classifications determined through
    assessments of individual Medicare patients in the skilled
    nursing facility, rather than on the facility’s reasonable
    costs. SNF PPS payments are made on a per diem basis for each
    resident and are generally intended to cover all inpatient
    services for Medicare patients, including routine nursing care,
    most capital-related costs associated with the inpatient stay,
    and ancillary services, such as respiratory therapy,
    occupational and physical therapy, speech therapy and certain
    covered drugs.


 


    In response to widespread healthcare industry concern about the
    reductions in payments under the BBA, the federal government
    enacted the Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999
    (“BBRA”). The BBRA increased the per diem
    reimbursement rates for certain high acuity patients by 20% from
    April 1, 2000 until case mix refinements were implemented
    by CMS, as explained below. The BBRA also imposed a two-year
    moratorium on the annual cap mandated by the BBA on physical,
    occupational and speech therapy services provided to a patient
    by outpatient rehabilitation therapy providers, including
    Part B covered therapy services in nursing facilities.
    Relief from the BBA therapy caps was subsequently extended
    multiple times by Congress, but these extensions expired on
    December 31, 2009 and have not been renewed by Congress.


 


    Pursuant to its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2006 fiscal
    year, CMS refined the resource utilization groups
    (“RUGs”) used to determine the daily payment for
    beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities by adding nine new
    payment categories. The result of this refinement, which became
    effective on January 1, 2006, was to eliminate the
    temporary add-on payments that Congress enacted as part of the
    BBRA.


 


    Under its final rule updating LTC-DRGs for the 2007 fiscal year,
    CMS reduced reimbursement of uncollectible Medicare coinsurance
    amounts for all beneficiaries (other than beneficiaries of both
    Medicare and Medicaid) from 100% to 70% for skilled nursing
    facility cost reporting periods beginning on or after
    October 1, 2005. The rule also included various options for
    classifying and weighting patients transferred to a skilled
    nursing facility after a hospital stay less than the mean length
    of stay associated with that particular diagnosis-related group.


 


    Under its final rule updating SNF PPS for the 2010 fiscal year
    CMS recalibrated the case-mix indexes for the resource
    utilization groups (RUGs) used to determine the daily payment
    for beneficiaries in skilled nursing facilities and implemented
    the RUG-IV classification model for skilled nursing facilities
    for fiscal year 2011; however, such implementation was delayed
    by the Affordable Care Act and will now occur in fiscal year
    2012.


 


    On July 22, 2010, CMS published its notice updating SNF PPS
    for the 2011 fiscal year (October 1, 2010 through
    September 30, 2011). Under the notice, the update to the
    SNF PPS standard federal payment rate for skilled nursing
    facilities includes a 2.3% increase in the market basket index
    for the 2011 fiscal year. The notice also provides a 0.6%
    negative adjustment due to an overestimated increase in the
    market basket index for the 2009 fiscal year. CMS estimates that
    net payments to skilled nursing facilities as a result of the
    market





    
    13



Table of Contents





    basket increase and the adjustment under the notice would
    increase by approximately $542 million, or 1.7%, in fiscal
    year 2011.


 


    The notice includes other provisions, such as the introduction
    of concurrent therapy, implementation of the MDS 3.0 assessment
    tool, changes to the look-back period and modification of the
    implementation schedule for the RUG-IV classification model,
    that may additionally affect net payments to skilled nursing
    facilities.


 


    On November 2, 2010, CMS placed on public display its final
    Medicare Physician Fee Schedule rule for the 2011 calendar year,
    which became effective on January 1, 2011. The rule set a
    $1,870 cap on physical therapy and
    speech-language
    pathology services and a separate $1,870 cap on occupational
    therapy services, including therapy provided in skilled nursing
    facilities, both without an exceptions process. Congress passed
    the Medicare and Medicaid Extenders Act of 2010
    (Pub. L. No. 111 309), which was signed into
    law on December 15, 2010, to lift the caps on therapy
    services and continue the exceptions process.


 


    We regularly assess the financial implications of CMS’s
    rules on the operators of our skilled nursing facilities, but we
    cannot assure you that the current rules or future updates to
    SNF PPS, therapy services or Medicare reimbursement for skilled
    nursing facilities will not materially adversely impact our
    operators, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on us. See “Risk Factors — Risks Arising from Our
    Business — Changes in the reimbursement rates or
    methods of payment from third-party payors, including the
    Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse
    effect on certain of our tenants and operators” included in
    Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Medicaid
    Reimbursement; Skilled Nursing Facilities


 


    Approximately two-thirds of all nursing home residents are
    dependent on Medicaid. Medicaid reimbursement rates, however,
    typically are less than the amounts charged by the operators of
    our skilled nursing facilities. Although the federal government
    and the states share responsibility for financing Medicaid,
    states have a wide range of discretion, within certain federal
    guidelines, to determine eligibility and reimbursement
    methodology. In addition, federal legislation limits an
    operator’s ability to withdraw from the Medicaid program by
    restricting the eviction or transfer of Medicaid residents. As
    state budget pressures continue to escalate as result of the
    financial crisis, a significant number of states have announced
    actual or potential budget shortfalls. As a result of these
    shortfalls, states are reducing Medicaid expenditures by
    implementing “freezes” or cuts in Medicaid rates paid
    to providers, including hospitals and skilled nursing
    facilities, or by restricting eligibility and benefits.


 


    In the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (Pub. L. No. 109 171),
    Congress made changes to the Medicaid program that were
    estimated to result in $10 billion in savings to the
    federal government over the five years following enactment of
    the legislation, primarily through the accounting practices some
    states use to calculate their matched payments and revising the
    qualifications for individuals who are eligible for Medicaid
    benefits. The changes made by CMS’s final rule updating SNF
    PPS for the 2006 federal fiscal year were also anticipated to
    reduce Medicaid payments to skilled nursing facility operators.
    In addition, as part of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of
    2006 (Pub. L.
    No. 109-432),
    Congress reduced the ceiling on taxes that states may impose on
    healthcare providers and which would qualify for federal
    financial participation under Medicaid by 0.5%, from 6% to 5.5%.
    Nationally, it was anticipated that this reduction would have a
    negligible effect, impacting only those states with taxes in
    excess of 5.5%. The ceiling is scheduled to revert back to 6% on
    October 1, 2011. We have not ascertained the impact of this
    reduction on our skilled nursing facility operators.


 


    The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Pub. L.
    No. 111-5)
    (the “Recovery Act”), which was signed into law on
    February 17, 2009, provides additional funding for health
    care improvement, expansion and research, as well as Medicaid
    relief to the states. The Recovery Act temporarily increased
    federal payments to state Medicaid programs by
    $86.6 billion through, among other things, a 6.2% increase
    in the federal share of Medicaid expenditures across the board,
    with additional funds available depending on a state’s
    federal medical assistance percentage and unemployment rate.
    Though the Medicaid federal assistance payments were originally
    expected to expire on December 31, 2010, the
    President’s fiscal year 2011 budget submitted to Congress
    in February 2010 proposed, and Congress approved in August 2010,
    a six-month extension of those payments through June 30,
    2011. The Recovery Act also requires states to promptly pay





    
    14



Table of Contents





    nursing facilities under their Medicaid program, and precludes
    states, as a condition of receiving the additional funding, from
    heightening their Medicaid eligibility requirements.


 


    As state reimbursement methodologies continue to evolve, at this
    time we expect significant Medicaid rate freezes or cuts or
    other program changes to be adopted by many states. In addition,
    the U.S. government may revoke, reduce or stop approving
    “provider taxes” that have the effect of increasing
    Medicaid payments to the states. We cannot predict the impact of
    such actions on our operators and we cannot assure you that
    payments under Medicaid are currently, or will be in the future,
    sufficient to fully reimburse our operators for the cost of
    providing skilled nursing services. Severe and widespread
    Medicaid rate cuts or freezes could have a material adverse
    effect on our skilled nursing facility operators, which, in
    turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    Environmental
    Regulation


 


    As a real property owner, we are subject to various federal,
    state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental,
    health and safety matters. These laws and regulations address,
    among other things, asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, fuel
    oil management, wastewater discharges, air emissions,
    radioactive materials, medical wastes, and hazardous wastes, and
    in certain cases, the costs of complying with these laws and
    regulations and the penalties for non-compliance can be
    substantial. Although we do not generally operate or manage our
    properties, we may be held primarily or jointly and severally
    liable for costs relating to the investigation and
    clean-up of
    any property from which there is or has been an actual or
    threatened release of a regulated material and any other
    affected properties, regardless of whether we knew of or caused
    the release. These costs typically are not limited by law or
    regulation and could exceed the property’s value. In
    addition, we may be liable for certain other costs, such as
    governmental fines and injuries to persons, property or natural
    resources, as a result of any such actual or threatened release.
    See “Risk Factors — Risks Arising from Our
    Business — If any of our properties are found to be
    contaminated, or if we become involved in any environmental
    disputes, we could incur substantial liabilities and costs”
    included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    Under the terms of our lease and management agreements, we
    generally have a right to indemnification by the current
    operators and managers of our properties for contamination
    caused by them. For example, the Kindred Master Leases provide
    that Kindred will indemnify us against any environmental claims
    (including penalties and
    clean-up
    costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or
    relating to, the leased properties at any time on or after the
    applicable lease commencement date and from any condition
    permitted to deteriorate on or after such date (including as a
    result of migration from adjacent properties not owned or
    operated by us or any of our affiliates other than Kindred and
    its direct affiliates). However, we cannot assure you that our
    operators and managers will have the financial capability or
    willingness to satisfy their respective indemnification
    obligations to us, and any such inability or unwillingness to do
    so may require us to satisfy the underlying environmental
    claims. See “Risk Factors — Risks Arising from
    Our Business — We depend on Kindred and Brookdale
    Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and
    operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or
    Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its
    agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    us” included in Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    In general, we have also agreed to indemnify our tenants against
    any environmental claims (including penalties and
    clean-up
    costs) resulting from any condition arising in, on or under, or
    relating to, the leased properties at any time before the
    applicable lease commencement date. With respect to our
    Sunrise-managed properties, we have agreed to indemnify Sunrise
    against any environmental claims (including penalties and
    clean-up
    costs) resulting from any condition on those properties, unless
    Sunrise caused or contributed to that condition.


 


    We did not make any material capital expenditures in connection
    with environmental, health, and safety laws, ordinances and
    regulations in 2010 and do not expect that we will have to make
    any such material capital expenditures during 2011.




    
    15



Table of Contents






    CERTAIN
    U.S. FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSIDERATIONS


 


    The following discussion summarizes certain U.S. federal
    income tax considerations that you may deem relevant as a holder
    of our common stock. It is not tax advice, nor does it purport
    to address all aspects of U.S. federal income taxation that
    may be important to particular stockholders in light of their
    personal circumstances or to certain types of stockholders that
    may be subject to special rules, such as insurance companies,
    tax-exempt organizations (except to the extent discussed below
    under “— Treatment of Tax-Exempt
    Stockholders”), financial institutions, pass-through
    entities (or investors in such entities) or broker-dealers, and
    non-U.S. persons
    and foreign corporations (except to the extent discussed below
    under “— Special Tax Considerations for
    Non-U.S. Stockholders”).


 


    The statements in this section are based on the Internal Revenue
    Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”),
    U.S. Treasury Regulations and administrative and judicial
    interpretations thereof. The laws governing the
    U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and their
    stockholders are highly technical and complex, and this
    discussion is qualified in its entirety by the authorities
    listed above, as in effect on the date hereof. We cannot assure
    you that new laws, interpretations of law or court decisions,
    any of which may take effect retroactively, will not cause any
    statement herein to be inaccurate.


 



    Federal
    Income Taxation of Ventas


 


    We elected REIT status beginning with the year ended
    December 31, 1999. Beginning with the 1999 tax year, we
    believe that we have satisfied the requirements to qualify as a
    REIT, and we intend to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal
    income tax purposes. If we continue to qualify for taxation as a
    REIT, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on
    net income that we currently distribute to stockholders. This
    treatment substantially eliminates the “double
    taxation” (i.e., taxation at both the corporate and
    stockholder levels) that generally results from investment in a
    corporation.


 


    Notwithstanding such qualification, we will be subject to
    federal income tax on any undistributed taxable income,
    including undistributed net capital gains, at regular corporate
    rates. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% excise tax if we
    do not satisfy specific REIT distribution requirements. See
    “— Requirements for Qualification as a
    REIT — Annual Distribution Requirements.” Under
    certain circumstances, we may be subject to the
    “alternative minimum tax” on our undistributed items
    of tax preference. If we have net income from the sale or other
    disposition of “foreclosure property” (see below) held
    primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of
    business or certain other non-qualifying income from foreclosure
    property, we will be subject to tax at the highest corporate
    rate on that income. See “— Requirements for
    Qualification as a REIT — Asset Tests.” In
    addition, if we have net income from “prohibited
    transactions” (which are, in general, certain sales or
    other dispositions of property (other than foreclosure property)
    held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of
    business), that income will be subject to a 100% tax.


 


    We may also be subject to “Built-in Gains Tax” on any
    appreciated asset that we own or acquire that was previously
    owned by a C corporation (i.e., a corporation generally subject
    to full corporate-level tax). If we dispose of any such asset
    and recognize gain on the disposition during the ten-year period
    immediately after the asset was owned by a C corporation (either
    prior to our REIT election, or through stock acquisition or
    merger), then we generally will be subject to regular corporate
    income tax on the gain equal to the lesser of the recognized
    gain at the time of disposition or the built-in gain in that
    asset as of the date it became a REIT asset. Effective
    January 1, 2009, our Kindred assets were no longer subject
    to Built-in Gains Tax. The 21 Brookdale assets we acquired in
    connection with our Provident acquisition will remain subject to
    Built-in Gains Tax until November 2014.


 


    In addition, if we fail to satisfy either of the gross income
    tests for qualification as a REIT (as discussed below), but
    still maintain such qualification under the relief provisions of
    the Code, we will be subject to a 100% tax on the gross income
    attributable to the amount by which we failed the applicable
    test, multiplied by a fraction intended to reflect our
    profitability. If we violate one or more of the REIT asset tests
    (as discussed below), we may avoid a loss of our REIT status if
    we qualify under certain relief provisions and, among other
    things, pay a tax equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest
    corporate tax rate multiplied by the net income generated by the
    non-qualifying asset during a specified period. If we fail to
    satisfy any requirement for REIT





    
    16



Table of Contents





    qualification, other than the gross income or assets tests
    mentioned above, but nonetheless maintain such qualification by
    meeting certain other requirements, we may be subject to a
    $50,000 penalty for each failure. Finally, we will incur a 100%
    excise tax on certain transactions with a taxable REIT
    subsidiary that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis.


 


    See “— Requirements for Qualification as a
    REIT” below for other circumstances in which we may be
    required to pay federal taxes.


 



    Requirements
    for Qualification as a REIT


 


    To qualify as a REIT, we must meet the requirements discussed
    below relating to our organization, sources of income, nature of
    assets and distributions of income to stockholders.


 



    Organizational
    Requirements


 


    The Code defines a REIT as a corporation, trust or association:
    (i) that is managed by one or more directors or trustees;
    (ii) the beneficial ownership of which is evidenced by
    transferable shares or by transferable certificates of
    beneficial interest; (iii) that would be taxable as a
    domestic corporation but for Sections 856 through 859 of
    the Code; (iv) that is neither a financial institution nor
    an insurance company subject to certain provisions of the Code;
    (v) the beneficial ownership of which is held by 100 or
    more persons during at least 335 days of a taxable year of
    twelve months, or during a proportionate part of a shorter
    taxable year (the “100 Shareholder Rule”);
    (vi) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of
    which is owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer
    individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain entities)
    during the last half of each taxable year (the “5/50
    Rule”); (vii) that makes an election to be a REIT (or
    has made such election for a previous taxable year) and
    satisfies all relevant filing and other administrative
    requirements established by the Internal Revenue Service
    (“IRS”) that must be met in order to elect and to
    maintain REIT status; (viii) that uses a calendar year for
    federal income tax purposes; and (ix) that meets certain
    other tests, described below, regarding the nature of its income
    and assets.


 


    We believe but cannot assure you that we have satisfied and will
    continue to satisfy the organizational requirements for
    qualification as a REIT. Our certificate of incorporation
    contains certain restrictions on the transfer of our shares that
    are intended to prevent a concentration of ownership of our
    stock that would cause us to fail the
    5/50
    Rule or the 100 Shareholder Rule; however, we cannot assure
    you that these restrictions will actually prevent such
    concentration or our failure to qualify as a REIT.


 


    In addition, to qualify as a REIT, a corporation may not have
    (as of the end of the taxable year) any earnings and profits
    that were accumulated in periods before it elected REIT status.
    We believe that we have not had any accumulated earnings and
    profits that are attributable to non-REIT periods, although the
    IRS is entitled to challenge that determination.


 



    Gross
    Income Tests


 


    We must satisfy two annual gross income requirements to qualify
    as a REIT:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    At least 75% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must consist of
    defined types of income derived directly or indirectly from
    investments relating to real property or mortgages on real
    property (including pledges of equity interest in certain
    entities holding real property and also including “rents
    from real property” (as defined in the Code)) and, in
    certain circumstances, interest on certain types of temporary
    investment income; and




 



     
        • 

    
    At least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross income from
    prohibited transactions) for each taxable year must be derived
    from such real property or temporary investments, dividends,
    interest and gain from the sale or disposition of stock or
    securities, or from any combination of the foregoing.





 


    We believe but cannot assure you that we have been and will
    continue to be in compliance with the gross income tests
    described above. If we fail to satisfy one or both gross income
    tests for any taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a
    REIT for that year if we qualify under certain relief provisions
    of the Code, in which





    
    17



Table of Contents





    case we would be subject to a 100% tax on the income exceeding
    one or both of the gross income tests. If we fail to satisfy one
    or both of the gross income tests and do not qualify under the
    relief provisions for any taxable year, we will not qualify as a
    REIT for that year, which would have a Material Adverse Effect
    on us.


 



    Asset
    Tests


 


    At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must
    satisfy the following tests relating to the nature of our assets:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    At least 75% of the value of our total assets must be
    represented by cash or cash items (including certain
    receivables), government securities, “real estate
    assets” (including interest in real property and in
    mortgages on real property and shares in other qualifying REITs)
    or, in cases where we raise new capital through stock or
    long-term (maturity of at least five years) debt offerings,
    temporary investments in stock or debt instruments during the
    one-year period following our receipt of such capital (the
    “75% asset test”); and




 



     
        • 

    
    Of the investments not meeting the requirements of the 75% asset
    test, the value of any one issuer’s debt and equity
    securities owned by us (other than our interest in any entity
    classified as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the
    stock of a taxable REIT subsidiary or the stock of a qualified
    REIT subsidiary) may not exceed 5% of the value of our total
    assets (the “5% asset test”), and we may not own more
    than 10% of any one issuer’s outstanding voting securities
    (the “10% voting securities test”) or 10% of the value
    of any one issuer’s outstanding securities, subject to
    limited “safe harbor” exceptions (the “10% value
    test”).





 


    In addition, no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be
    represented by securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries (the
    “25% TRS test”).


 


    We believe but cannot assure you that we have been and will
    continue to be in compliance with the asset tests described
    above. If we fail to satisfy the asset tests at the end of our
    second, third or fourth calendar quarter, we may nevertheless
    continue to qualify as a REIT if we satisfied all of the asset
    tests at the close of the preceding calendar quarter and the
    discrepancy between the value of our assets and the asset test
    requirements is due to changes in the market values of our
    assets and not in any part caused by an acquisition of
    non-qualifying assets.


 


    Furthermore, if we fail to satisfy any of the asset tests at the
    end of any calendar quarter without curing such failure within
    30 days after the end of such quarter, we would fail to
    qualify as a REIT unless we qualified under certain relief
    provisions enacted as part of the American Jobs Creation Act of
    2004. Under one relief provision, we would continue to qualify
    as a REIT if our failure to satisfy the 5% asset test, the 10%
    voting securities test or the 10% value test is due to the
    ownership of assets having a total value not exceeding the
    lesser of 1% of our assets at the end of the relevant quarter or
    $10 million and we disposed of such assets (or otherwise
    met such asset tests) within six months after the end of the
    quarter in which the failure was identified. If we fail to
    satisfy any of the asset tests for a particular quarter but do
    not qualify under the relief provision described in the
    preceding sentence, then we would be deemed to have satisfied
    the relevant asset test if: (i) following identification of
    the failure, we filed a schedule with a description of each
    asset that caused the failure; (ii) the failure is due to
    reasonable cause and not willful neglect; (iii) we disposed
    of the non-qualifying asset (or otherwise met the relevant asset
    test) within six months after the end of the quarter in which
    the failure was identified; and (iv) we paid a penalty tax
    equal to the greater of $50,000 or the highest corporate tax
    rate multiplied by the net income generated by the
    non-qualifying asset during the period beginning on the first
    date of the failure and ending on the date we disposed of the
    asset (or otherwise cured the asset test failure). We cannot
    predict, however, whether in all circumstances we would be
    entitled to the benefit of these relief provisions. If we fail
    to satisfy any of the asset tests and do not qualify for the
    relief provisions, we will lose our REIT status, which would
    have a Material Adverse Effect on us.




    
    18



Table of Contents






    Foreclosure
    Property


 


    The foreclosure property rules permit us (by our election) to
    foreclose or repossess properties without being disqualified as
    a REIT as a result of receiving income that does not qualify
    under the gross income tests. However, in that case, we would be
    subject to a corporate tax on the net non-qualifying income from
    “foreclosure property,” and the after-tax amount would
    increase the dividends we would be required to distribute to
    stockholders. See “— Annual Distribution
    Requirements” below.


 


    Foreclosure property treatment will end on the first day on
    which we enter into a lease of the applicable property that will
    give rise to income that does not constitute “good
    REIT” income under Section 856(c)(3) of the Code. In
    addition, foreclosure property treatment will end if any
    construction takes place on the property (other than completion
    of a building or other improvement more than 10% complete before
    default became imminent). Foreclosure property treatment (other
    than for qualified healthcare property) is available for an
    initial period of three years and may, in certain circumstances,
    be extended for an additional three years. Foreclosure property
    treatment for qualified healthcare property is available for an
    initial period of two years and may, in certain circumstances,
    be extended for an additional four years.


 



    Taxable
    REIT Subsidiaries


 


    A taxable REIT subsidiary, or “TRS,” is a corporation
    subject to tax as a regular C corporation. Generally, a TRS can
    own assets that cannot be owned by a REIT and can perform tenant
    services (excluding the direct or indirect operation or
    management of a lodging or healthcare facility) that would
    otherwise disqualify the REIT’s rental income under the
    gross income tests. We are permitted to own up to 100% of a TRS,
    subject to the 25% TRS test, but there are certain limits on the
    ability of a TRS to deduct interest payments made to us. In
    addition, we are subject to a 100% penalty tax on any excess
    payments that we receive or any excess expenses deducted by the
    TRS if the economic arrangements between the REIT, the
    REIT’s tenants and the TRS are not comparable to similar
    arrangements among unrelated parties.


 



    Annual
    Distribution Requirements


 


    In order to be taxed as a REIT, we are required to distribute
    dividends (other than capital gain dividends) to our
    stockholders in an amount at least equal to the sum of
    (i) 90% of our “REIT taxable income” (computed
    without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our net
    capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the net income (after tax),
    if any, from foreclosure property, minus the sum of certain
    items of non-cash income. These dividends must be paid in the
    taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable
    year if (i) they are declared in October, November or
    December, payable to stockholders of record on a specified date
    in any one of those months and actually paid during January of
    such following year or (ii) they are declared before we
    timely file our tax return for such year and paid on or before
    the first regular dividend payment after such declaration, and
    we elect on our federal income tax return for the prior year to
    have a specified amount of the subsequent dividend as treated as
    paid in the prior year. To the extent we do not distribute all
    of our net capital gain or at least 90%, but less than 100%, of
    our “REIT taxable income,” as adjusted, we will be
    subject to tax on the undistributed amount at regular capital
    gains and ordinary corporate tax rates except to the extent of
    our net operating loss or capital loss carryforwards. If we pay
    any Built-in Gains Taxes, those taxes will be deductible in
    computing REIT taxable income. Moreover, if we fail to
    distribute during each calendar year (or, in the case of
    distributions with declaration and record dates falling in the
    last three months of the calendar year, by the end of January
    following such calendar year) at least the sum of 85% of our
    REIT ordinary income for such year, 95% of our REIT capital gain
    net income for such year (other than long-term capital gain we
    elect to retain and treat as having been distributed to
    stockholders), and any undistributed taxable income from prior
    periods, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on
    the excess of such required distribution over the amounts
    actually distributed.


 


    We believe but cannot assure you that we have satisfied the
    annual distribution requirements for the year of our initial
    REIT election and each year thereafter through the year ended
    December 31, 2010. Although we intend to satisfy the annual
    distribution requirements to continue to qualify as a REIT for
    the year ending





    
    19



Table of Contents





    December 31, 2011 and subsequent years, economic, market,
    legal, tax or other considerations could limit our ability to
    meet those requirements.


 


    In Revenue Procedure
    2010-12, the
    IRS stated that it would treat stock dividends as distributions
    for purposes of satisfying the REIT distribution requirements
    for calendar years 2008 through 2012, provided that stockholders
    can elect to receive the distribution in either cash or stock,
    subject to certain limitations. Any stock so distributed would
    be taxable to the recipient. We may choose to declare stock
    dividends in accordance with Revenue Procedure
    2010-12 or
    otherwise. We also have net operating loss carryforwards that we
    can use to reduce our annual distribution requirements. See
    “Note 12 — Income Taxes” of the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Failure
    to Continue to Qualify


 


    If we fail to satisfy one or more requirements for REIT
    qualification, other than by violating a gross income or asset
    test for which relief is otherwise available as described above,
    we would retain our REIT qualification if the failure is due to
    reasonable cause and not willful neglect and if we pay a penalty
    of $50,000 for each such failure. We cannot predict, however,
    whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to the benefit
    of this relief provision.


 


    If our election to be taxed as a REIT is revoked or terminated
    (e.g., due to a failure to meet the REIT qualification tests
    without qualifying for any applicable relief provisions), we
    would be subject to tax (including any applicable alternative
    minimum tax) on our taxable income at regular corporate rates
    (for all open tax years beginning with the year our REIT
    election is revoked or terminated), except to the extent of our
    net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards, and
    distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us, nor
    would they be required to be made. To the extent of current and
    accumulated earnings and profits, all distributions to
    stockholders would be taxable as ordinary income, and, subject
    to certain limitations in the Code, corporate stockholders may
    be eligible for the dividends received deduction. In addition,
    we would be prohibited from re-electing REIT status for the four
    taxable years following the year during which we ceased to
    qualify as a REIT, unless certain relief provisions of the Code
    applied. We cannot predict, however, whether we would be
    entitled to such relief.


 



    Federal
    Income Taxation of U.S. Stockholders


 


    As used herein, the term “U.S. Stockholder”
    refers to any beneficial owner of our common stock that is, for
    U.S. federal income tax purposes, an individual who is a
    citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation created
    or organized in or under the laws of the United States, any
    state thereof or the District of Columbia, an estate the income
    of which is includible in gross income for U.S. federal
    income tax purposes regardless of its source, or a trust if
    (i) a U.S. court is able to exercise primary
    supervision over the administration of such trust or
    (ii) the trust has elected under applicable
    U.S. Treasury Regulations to retain its pre-August 20,
    1996 classification as a U.S. person. If an entity treated
    as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes holds
    our common stock, the tax treatment of a partner in the
    partnership will generally depend on the status of the partner
    and the activities of the partnership. Partners of partnerships
    holding our stock should consult their tax advisors. This
    section assumes the U.S. Stockholder holds our common stock
    as a capital asset.


 


    As long as we qualify as a REIT, distributions made to our
    taxable U.S. Stockholders out of current or accumulated
    earnings and profits (and not designated as capital gain
    dividends) generally will be taxable to such
    U.S. Stockholders as ordinary income and will not be
    eligible for the qualified dividends rate generally available to
    non-corporate holders or for the dividends received deduction
    generally available to corporations. Distributions that are
    designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as a capital
    gain (to the extent such distributions do not exceed our actual
    net capital gain for the taxable year) without regard to the
    period for which the stockholder has held its shares.
    Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and
    profits will not be taxable to a U.S. Stockholder to the
    extent they do not exceed the adjusted basis of the
    stockholder’s shares (determined on a
    share-by-share
    basis), but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of those
    shares. To the extent that distributions in excess of current
    and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the





    
    20



Table of Contents





    adjusted basis of a stockholder’s shares, such
    distributions will be included in income as capital gains. The
    tax rate applicable to such capital gains will depend on the
    stockholder’s holding period for the shares. Any
    distribution declared by us and payable to a stockholder of
    record on a specified date in October, November or December of
    any year will be treated as both paid by us and received by the
    stockholder on December 31 of that year, provided that we
    actually pay the distribution during January of the following
    calendar year.


 


    We may elect to treat all or a part of our undistributed net
    capital gain as if it had been distributed to our stockholders
    (including for purposes of the 4% excise tax discussed above
    under “— Requirements for Qualification as a
    REIT — Annual Distribution Requirements”). If we
    make such an election, our stockholders would be required to
    include in their income as long-term capital gain their
    proportionate share of our undistributed net capital gain, as
    designated by us. Each such stockholder would be deemed to have
    paid its proportionate share of the income tax imposed on us
    with respect to such undistributed net capital gain, and this
    amount would be credited or refunded to the stockholder. In
    addition, the tax basis of the stockholder’s shares would
    be increased by its proportionate share of undistributed net
    capital gains included in its income, less its proportionate
    share of the income tax imposed on us with respect to such gains.


 


    Stockholders may not include in their individual income tax
    returns any of our net operating losses or net capital losses.
    Instead, we would carry over those losses for potential offset
    against our future income, subject to certain limitations.
    Taxable distributions from us and gain from the disposition of
    our common stock will not be treated as passive activity income,
    and, therefore, stockholders generally will not be able to apply
    any “passive activity losses” (such as losses from
    certain types of limited partnerships in which the stockholder
    is a limited partner) against such income. In addition, taxable
    distributions from us generally will be treated as investment
    income for purposes of the investment interest limitations.


 


    We will notify stockholders after the close of our taxable year
    as to the portions of the distributions attributable to that
    year that constitute ordinary income, return of capital and
    capital gain. To the extent a portion of the distribution is
    designated as a capital gain dividend, we will notify
    stockholders as to the portion that is a “15% rate gain
    distribution” and the portion that is an unrecaptured
    Section 1250 distribution. A 15% rate gain distribution is
    a capital gain distribution to domestic stockholders that are
    individuals, estates or trusts that is taxable at a maximum rate
    of 15%. An unrecaptured Section 1250 gain distribution
    would be taxable to taxable domestic stockholders that are
    individuals, estates or trusts at a maximum rate of 25%.


 



    Taxation
    of U.S. Stockholders on the Disposition of Shares of Common
    Stock


 


    In general, a U.S. Stockholder who is not a dealer in
    securities must treat any gain or loss realized upon a taxable
    disposition of our common stock as long-term capital gain or
    loss if the stockholder has held the shares for more than one
    year, and otherwise as short-term capital gain or loss. However,
    a U.S. Stockholder must treat any loss upon a sale or
    exchange of shares of our common stock held for six months or
    less as a long-term capital loss to the extent of capital gain
    dividends and any other actual or deemed distributions from us
    which the stockholder treats as long-term capital gain. All or a
    portion of any loss that a U.S. Stockholder realizes upon a
    taxable disposition of our common stock may be disallowed if the
    stockholder purchases other shares of our common stock within
    30 days before or after the disposition.


 



    Treatment
    of Tax-Exempt Stockholders


 


    Tax-exempt organizations, including qualified employee pension
    and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts
    (collectively, “Exempt Organizations”), generally are
    exempt from U.S. federal income taxation. However, they are
    subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income
    (“UBTI”). While many investments in real estate
    generate UBTI, the IRS has issued a published ruling that
    dividend distributions by a REIT to an exempt employee pension
    trust do not constitute UBTI, provided that the shares of the
    REIT are not otherwise used in an unrelated trade or business of
    the exempt employee pension trust. Based on that ruling, and
    subject to the exceptions discussed below, amounts distributed
    by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not constitute
    UBTI. However, if an Exempt Organization finances its
    acquisition of our common stock with debt, a portion of its
    income from us will constitute UBTI pursuant to the
    “debt-financed property” rules. Furthermore, social
    clubs, voluntary employee benefit associations,





    
    21



Table of Contents





    supplemental unemployment benefit trusts and qualified group
    legal services plans that are exempt from taxation under
    paragraphs (7), (9), (17) and (20), respectively, of
    Section 501(c) of the Code are subject to different UBTI
    rules, which generally require them to characterize
    distributions from us as UBTI. In addition, in certain
    circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our
    stock is required to treat a percentage of the dividends from us
    as UBTI.


 



    Special
    Tax Considerations for
    Non-U.S.
    Stockholders


 


    As used herein, the term
    “Non-U.S. Stockholder”
    refers to nonresident alien individuals, foreign corporations,
    foreign estates and foreign trusts, but does not include any
    foreign stockholder whose investment in our stock is
    “effectively connected” with the conduct of a trade or
    business in the United States. Such a foreign stockholder, in
    general, will be subject to U.S. federal income tax with
    respect to its investment in our stock in the same manner as a
    U.S. Stockholder (subject to applicable alternative minimum
    tax and a special alternative minimum tax in the case of
    nonresident alien individuals). In addition, a foreign
    corporation receiving income that is treated as effectively
    connected with a U.S. trade or business also may be subject
    to an additional 30% “branch profits tax,” unless an
    applicable tax treaty provides a lower rate or an exemption.
    Certain certification requirements must be satisfied in order
    for effectively connected income to be exempt from withholding.


 


    Distributions to
    Non-U.S. Stockholders
    that are not attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us
    of U.S. real property interests and are not designated by
    us as capital gain dividends (or deemed distributions of
    retained capital gains) will be treated as dividends of ordinary
    income to the extent that they are made out of our current or
    accumulated earnings and profits. Such distributions ordinarily
    will be subject to a withholding tax equal to 30% of the gross
    amount of the distribution unless an applicable tax treaty
    reduces or eliminates that tax. Distributions in excess of our
    current and accumulated earnings and profits will not be taxable
    to a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    to the extent that such distributions do not exceed the adjusted
    basis of the stockholder’s shares (determined on a
    share-by-share
    basis), but rather will reduce the adjusted basis of those
    shares. To the extent that distributions in excess of current
    and accumulated earnings and profits exceed the adjusted basis
    of a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder’s
    shares, such distributions will give rise to tax liability if
    the
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    would otherwise be subject to tax on any gain from the sale or
    disposition of its shares, as described below.


 


    We expect to withhold U.S. tax at the rate of 30% on the
    gross amount of any dividends, other than dividends treated as
    attributable to gain from sales or exchanges of U.S. real
    property interests and capital gain dividends, paid to a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder,
    unless (i) a lower treaty rate applies and the required IRS
    Form W-8BEN
    evidencing eligibility for that reduced rate is filed with us or
    the appropriate withholding agent or (ii) the
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    files an IRS
    Form W-8ECI
    or a successor form with us or the appropriate withholding agent
    properly claiming that the distributions are effectively
    connected with the
    Non-U.S. Stockholder’s
    conduct of a U.S. trade or business.


 


    For any year in which we qualify as a REIT, distributions to a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    that owns more than 5% of our common shares at any time during
    the one-year period ending on the date of distribution and that
    are attributable to gain from sales or exchanges by us of
    U.S. real property interests will be taxed to the
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    under the provisions of the Foreign Investment in Real Property
    Tax Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) as if such gain were
    effectively connected with a U.S. business. Accordingly, a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    that owns more than 5% of our common shares will be taxed at the
    normal capital gain rates applicable to a U.S. Stockholder
    (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax and a special
    alternative minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien
    individuals). Distributions subject to FIRPTA also may be
    subject to a 30% branch profits tax if the recipient is a
    foreign corporate stockholder not entitled to treaty relief or
    exemption. Under FIRPTA, we are required to withhold 35% (which
    is higher than the maximum rate on long-term capital gains of
    non-corporate persons) of any distribution to a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    that owns more than 5% of our common shares which is or could be
    designated as a capital gain dividend attributable to
    U.S. real property interests. Moreover, if we designate
    previously made distributions as capital gain dividends
    attributable to U.S. real property interests, subsequent
    distributions (up to the amount of such prior distributions)
    will be treated as capital gain dividends subject to FIRPTA
    withholding. This amount is creditable against the
    Non-U.S. Stockholder’s
    FIRPTA tax liability. Capital gain dividends not attributable to





    
    22



Table of Contents





    gain on the sale or exchange of U.S. real property
    interests are not subject to U.S. taxation if there is no
    withholding requirement.


 


    If a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    does not own more than 5% of our common shares at any time
    during the one-year period ending on the date of a distribution,
    the gain will not be considered to be effectively connected with
    a U.S. business, and the
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    would not be required to file a U.S. federal income tax
    return by receiving such a distribution. In this case, the
    distribution will be treated as a REIT dividend to that
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    and taxed as a REIT dividend that is not a capital gain
    distribution (and subject to possible withholding), as described
    above. In addition, the branch profits tax will not apply to the
    distribution. For so long as our common stock continues to be
    regularly traded on an established securities market, the sale
    of such stock by any
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    who is not a Five Percent
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    (as defined below) generally will not be subject to
    U.S. federal income tax (unless the
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    is a nonresident alien individual who was present in the United
    States for more than 182 days during the taxable year of
    the sale and certain other conditions apply, in which case such
    gain will be subject to a 30% tax on a gross basis). A
    “Five Percent
    Non-U.S. Stockholder”
    is a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    who, at some time during the five-year period preceding such
    sale or disposition, beneficially owned (including under certain
    attribution rules) more than 5% of the total fair market value
    of our common stock (as outstanding from time to time).


 


    In general, the sale or other taxable disposition of our common
    stock by a Five Percent
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    also will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax if we
    are a “domestically controlled REIT.” A REIT is a
    “domestically controlled REIT” if, at all times during
    the five-year period preceding the disposition in question, less
    than 50% in value of its shares is held directly or indirectly
    by
    Non-U.S. Stockholders.
    Although we believe that we currently qualify as a domestically
    controlled REIT, because our common stock is publicly traded, we
    cannot assure you that we currently qualify or will qualify as a
    domestically controlled REIT at any time in the future. If we do
    not constitute a domestically controlled REIT, a Five Percent
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    will be taxed in the same manner as a U.S. Stockholder with
    respect to gain on the sale of our common stock (subject to
    applicable alternative minimum tax and a special alternative
    minimum tax in the case of nonresident alien individuals).


 



    Information
    Reporting Requirements and Backup Withholding Tax


 


    Information returns may be filed with the IRS and backup
    withholding tax may be collected in connection with
    distributions paid or required to be treated as paid during each
    calendar year and payments of the proceeds of a sale or other
    disposition of our common stock. Under the backup withholding
    rules, a stockholder may be subject to backup withholding at the
    applicable rate (currently 28% and scheduled to increase to 31%
    in 2011) with respect to distributions paid and proceeds
    from a disposition of our common stock unless such holder is a
    corporation,
    non-U.S. person
    or comes within certain other exempt categories and, when
    required, demonstrates this fact or provides a taxpayer
    identification number, certifies as to no loss of exemption from
    backup withholding and otherwise complies with the applicable
    requirements of the backup withholding rules. A stockholder who
    does not provide us with its correct taxpayer identification
    number also may be subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.


 


    Backup withholding is not an additional tax. Rather, the
    U.S. federal income tax liability of persons subject to
    backup withholding tax will be offset by the amount of tax
    withheld. If backup withholding tax results in an overpayment of
    U.S. federal income taxes, a refund or credit may be
    obtained from the IRS, provided the required information is
    furnished timely thereto.


 


    As a general matter, backup withholding and information
    reporting will not apply to a payment of the proceeds of a sale
    of our common stock by or through a foreign office of a foreign
    broker. Information reporting (but not backup withholding) will
    apply, however, to a payment of the proceeds of a sale of our
    common stock by a foreign office of a broker that is a
    U.S. person, a foreign partnership that derives 50% or more
    of its gross income for certain periods from the conduct of a
    trade or business in the United States, or more than 50% of
    whose capital or profit interests are owned during certain
    periods by U.S. persons, or a “controlled foreign
    corporation” for U.S. tax purposes, unless the broker
    has documentary evidence in its records that the holder is a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    and certain other conditions are satisfied, or the stockholder





    
    23



Table of Contents





    otherwise establishes an exemption. Payment to or through a
    U.S. office of a broker of the proceeds of a sale of our
    common stock is subject to both backup withholding and
    information reporting unless the stockholder certifies under
    penalties of perjury that the stockholder is a
    Non-U.S. Stockholder
    or otherwise establishes an exemption. A stockholder may obtain
    a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup withholding
    rules in excess of its U.S. federal income tax liability by
    timely filing the appropriate claim for a refund with the IRS.


 



    Other Tax
    Consequences


 



    State
    and Local Taxes


 


    We and/or
    our stockholders may be subject to taxation by various states
    and localities, including those in which we or a stockholder
    transact business, own property or reside. State and local tax
    treatment may differ from the federal income tax treatment
    described above. Consequently, stockholders should consult their
    own tax advisers regarding the effect of state and local tax
    laws, in addition to federal, foreign and other tax laws, in
    connection with an investment in our common stock.


 



    Possible
    Legislative or Other Actions Affecting Tax
    Consequences


 


    You should recognize that future legislative, judicial and
    administrative actions or decisions, which may be retroactive in
    effect, could adversely affect our federal income tax treatment
    or the tax consequences of an investment in shares of our common
    stock. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation
    are constantly under review by persons involved in the
    legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury
    Department, resulting in statutory changes as well as
    promulgation of new, or revisions to existing, regulations and
    revised interpretations of established concepts.


 


    We cannot predict the likelihood of passage of any new tax
    legislation or other provisions either directly or indirectly
    affecting us or our stockholders or the value of an investment
    in our common stock.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    This section discusses the most significant factors that affect
    our business, operations and financial condition. It does not
    describe all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our
    industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following
    risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties that are not yet
    identified or that we currently think are not material, actually
    occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that event,
    the value of our securities could decline.


 


    We have grouped these risk factors into three general categories:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Risks arising from our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks arising from our capital structure; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks arising from our status as a REIT.





 



    Risks
    Arising from Our Business


 



    We
    depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant
    portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or
    unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to satisfy
    its obligations under its agreements with us could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on us.


 


    We lease a substantial portion of our properties to Kindred and
    Brookdale Senior Living, and each of them is a significant
    source of our total revenues and operating income. Since the
    Kindred Master Leases and our leases with Brookdale Senior
    Living are
    triple-net
    leases, we depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living not
    only for rental income, but also to pay insurance, taxes,
    utilities and maintenance and repair expenses in connection with
    the leased properties. Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred
    or Brookdale Senior Living to make rental payments to us or to
    otherwise satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, any
    failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively
    conduct its operations or to maintain and improve our properties
    could adversely affect its





    
    24



Table of Contents





    business reputation and its ability to attract and retain
    patients and residents in our properties, which could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on us. Kindred and Brookdale Senior
    Living have also agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us
    harmless from and against various claims, litigation and
    liabilities arising in connection with their respective
    businesses, and we cannot assure you that either Kindred or
    Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income,
    access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to
    satisfy its indemnification obligations.


 



    The
    properties managed by Sunrise account for a significant portion
    of our revenues and operating income; Adverse developments in
    Sunrise’s business and affairs or financial condition could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 


    Sunrise currently manages 79 of our seniors housing communities
    pursuant to long-term management agreements. These properties
    represent a substantial portion of our portfolio, based on their
    gross book value, and account for a significant portion of our
    total revenues and operating income. Although we have various
    rights as owner under the Sunrise management agreements, we rely
    on Sunrise’s personnel, good faith, expertise, historical
    performance, technical resources and information systems,
    proprietary information and judgment to manage our properties
    efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Sunrise to set
    resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial
    results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise
    operate those properties in accordance with the terms of our
    management agreements and in compliance with all applicable laws
    and regulations. For example, we depend on Sunrise’s
    ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who
    are responsible for the
    day-to-day
    operations of our seniors housing communities. A shortage of
    nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary
    pressures may force Sunrise to enhance its pay and benefits
    package to compete effectively for such personnel, and Sunrise
    may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the
    rates charged to residents. Any increase in labor costs and
    other property operating expenses, any failure by Sunrise to
    attract and retain qualified personnel, or changes in
    Sunrise’s senior management could adversely affect the
    income we receive from our Sunrise-managed communities and have
    a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 


    In addition, any adverse developments in Sunrise’s business
    and affairs, financial strength or ability to operate our
    properties efficiently and effectively could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us. If Sunrise experiences any significant
    financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties due to
    the weakened economy or otherwise, such difficulties could
    result in, among other adverse events, acceleration of its
    indebtedness, the inability to renew or extend its revolving
    credit facility, the enforcement of default remedies by its
    counterparties or the commencement of insolvency proceedings
    under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code by or against Sunrise, any
    one or a combination of which could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on us.


 



    We
    face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency
    by our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other
    obligors.


 


    We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators,
    borrowers, managers or other obligors could become bankrupt or
    insolvent. Although our lease, loan and management agreements
    provide us with the right to exercise certain remedies in the
    event of default on the obligations owing to us or upon the
    occurrence of certain insolvency events, the bankruptcy and
    insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed
    for bankruptcy or reorganization. For example, a debtor-lessee
    may reject its lease with us in a bankruptcy proceeding. In such
    a case, our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and
    future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the
    U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap might be
    substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under
    the lease, and it is quite likely that any claim we might have
    for unpaid rent would not be paid in full. In addition, a
    debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its
    lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. If
    such a claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender,
    compared to a landlord, would generally be more limited.
    Similarly, if a debtor-manager seeks bankruptcy protection, the
    automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would
    preclude us from enforcing our remedies against the manager
    unless relief is first obtained from the court having
    jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. In the event of an
    obligor bankruptcy, we may also be required to fund certain
    expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs
    and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of





    
    25



Table of Contents





    our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on a property
    and/or
    transition a property to a new tenant, operator or manager.


 



    We may
    be unable to reposition our properties on as favorable terms, or
    at all, if we have to replace any of our tenants or operators,
    and we may be subject to delays, limitations and expenses in
    repositioning our assets.


 


    We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases
    upon their expiration. If the Kindred Master Leases, our leases
    with Brookdale Senior Living or any of our other leases are not
    renewed, we would be required to reposition those properties
    with another tenant or operator. In case of non-renewal, we
    generally have one year prior to expiration of the lease term to
    arrange for such repositioning and our tenants are required to
    continue to perform all of their obligations (including the
    payment of all rental amounts) for the non-renewed assets until
    such expiration. However, following expiration of the lease term
    or in the event we exercise our right to replace a tenant upon a
    lease default, during any period that we are attempting to
    locate a suitable replacement tenant or operator, there could be
    a decrease or cessation of rental payments on those properties.
    We also might not be successful in identifying suitable
    replacements or entering into leases with new tenants or
    operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as
    our current leases, if at all, and we may be required to fund
    certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt
    costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value and avoid
    the imposition of liens on properties while they are being
    repositioned.


 


    Our ability to reposition our properties with another suitable
    tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by
    various state licensing receivership, CON or other laws, as well
    as by the Medicare and Medicaid
    change-of-ownership
    rules. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in
    connection with any licensing, receivership or
    change-of-ownership
    proceedings. In the case of our MOBs, our ability to locate
    suitable replacement tenants could be impaired by the
    specialized medical uses of those properties, and we may be
    required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the MOB to other
    uses. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely
    impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased
    properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant default and
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    We
    have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent
    rent escalators, which can hinder our growth and
    profitability.


 


    We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our
    assets under long-term
    triple-net
    leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual
    escalations. Certain of our leases contain escalators contingent
    upon the achievement of specified revenue parameters or based on
    changes in the Consumer Price Index. If the revenues generated
    by our
    triple-net
    leased properties as a result of weak economic conditions or
    other factors or the Consumer Price Index does not increase, our
    revenues attributes to these leases may not increase.


 



    The
    weakened economy could adversely impact our operating income and
    earnings, as well as the results of operations of our tenants
    and operators, which could impair their ability to meet their
    obligations to us.


 


    Continued concerns about the U.S. economy and the systemic
    impact of high unemployment, volatile energy costs, geopolitical
    issues, the availability and cost of credit, the
    U.S. mortgage market and a severely distressed real estate
    market have contributed to increased market volatility and
    weakened business and consumer confidence. This difficult
    operating environment could adversely affect our ability to
    generate revenues
    and/or
    increase our costs at our Sunrise-managed properties, thereby
    reducing our operating income and earnings. It could also have
    an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants and operators to
    maintain occupancy and rates in our properties, which could harm
    their financial condition. These economic conditions could cause
    us to experience operating deficiencies at our Sunrise-managed
    properties
    and/or cause
    our tenants and operators to be unable to meet their rental
    payments and other obligations due to us, which could have a
    Material Adverse Effect on us.




    
    26



Table of Contents






    We may
    be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing
    our real estate loan investments, and even if we are successful
    in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully
    reposition the properties, which may adversely affect our
    ability to recover our investments.


 


    If a borrower defaults under any of our mortgage loans, we may
    have to foreclose on the loan or protect our interest by
    acquiring title to the property and thereafter making
    substantial improvements or repairs in order to maximize the
    property’s investment potential. The borrower may contest
    enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy
    protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies
    and/or bring
    claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce
    mortgage obligations. If the borrower seeks bankruptcy
    protection, the automatic stay provisions of the
    U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing
    foreclosure or other remedies against the borrower unless relief
    is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the
    bankruptcy case. Foreclosure-related costs, high
    loan-to-value
    ratios or declines in the value of the property may prevent us
    from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage loans upon
    foreclosure, and we may be required to record valuation
    allowance for such losses. Even if we are able to successfully
    foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate loan
    investments, we may inherit properties that we are unable to
    expeditiously reposition with new tenants or operators, if at
    all, which would adversely affect our ability to recover our
    investment.


 



    We are
    exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims
    with respect to our operating assets that may adversely affect
    our ability to generate revenues and/or increase our costs and
    could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 


    We are exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and
    claims with respect to our operating assets, including our
    Sunrise-managed properties and our MOBs, that may adversely
    affect our ability to generate revenues
    and/or
    increase our costs, thereby reducing our profitability. These
    risks include fluctuations in occupancy levels, the inability to
    achieve economic resident fees (including anticipated increases
    in those fees), rent control regulations, increases in costs of
    materials, energy, labor (as a result of unionization or
    otherwise) and services, national and regional economic
    conditions, the imposition of new or increased taxes, capital
    expenditure requirements, professional and general liability
    claims and the availability and costs of professional and
    general liability insurance. Any one or a combination of these
    factors could result in operating deficiencies at our operating
    assets which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    We may
    encounter certain risks when implementing our business strategy
    to pursue investments in, and/or acquisitions or development of,
    additional seniors housing and/or healthcare
    assets.


 


    We intend to continue to pursue investments in,
    and/or
    acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing
    and/or
    healthcare assets domestically and internationally, subject to
    the contractual restrictions contained in our unsecured
    revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our
    outstanding senior notes. Investments in and acquisitions of
    these properties, including our pending Atria acquisition,
    entail general risks associated with any real estate investment,
    including risks that the investment will fail to perform in
    accordance with expectations, that the estimates of the cost of
    improvements necessary for acquired properties will prove
    inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will fail to
    meet performance expectations. Furthermore, healthcare
    properties are often highly customized and may require costly
    tenant-specific improvements.


 


    In addition, any new development projects that we pursue would
    be subject to risks of construction delays or cost overruns that
    may increase project costs, new project commencement risks such
    as receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental
    approvals and permits and the risk of incurring development
    costs in connection with projects that are not pursued to
    completion. Investments in and acquisitions of properties
    outside the United States would also expose us to legal,
    economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign
    countries, such as currency and tax risks. If we incur
    additional debt or issue equity securities, or both, to finance
    future investments, acquisitions or development activity (as we
    intend to do in our pending Atria acquisition), our leverage
    could increase or our per share financial results could be
    reduced.




    
    27



Table of Contents





    When we attempt to finance, acquire or develop properties, we
    compete with healthcare providers, other healthcare REITs,
    healthcare lenders, real estate partnerships, banks, insurance
    companies, private equity firms and other investors, some of
    whom may have greater financial resources and lower costs of
    capital than we do. Our ability to compete successfully for
    investment and acquisition opportunities is affected by many
    factors, including our cost of obtaining debt and equity capital
    at rates comparable to or better than our competitors. Increased
    competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and
    successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business
    objectives and could improve the bargaining power of property
    owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment,
    acquisition and development activities. See
    “Business — Competition” included in
    Item 1 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Even if we succeed in identifying and competing for such
    opportunities, we could encounter unanticipated difficulties and
    expenditures relating to the properties or businesses we invest
    in or acquire, the investment or acquisition could divert
    management’s attention from our existing business, or the
    value of such investment or acquisition could decrease
    substantially, some or all of which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us.


 


    As we invest in,
    and/or
    acquire or develop, additional seniors housing
    and/or
    healthcare assets or businesses, we expect that the number of
    operators of our properties and, potentially, our business
    segments will increase. We cannot assure you that we will have
    the capabilities to successfully monitor and manage a portfolio
    of properties with a growing number of operators
    and/or
    manage such businesses. Moreover, in some cases, acquisitions
    require the integration of companies that have previously
    operated independently. Successful integration of the operations
    of those companies will depend primarily on our ability to
    consolidate operations, systems, procedures and personnel to
    eliminate redundancies and costs. Potential difficulties we
    could encounter during integration include the loss of key
    employees, disruption of our business, possible inconsistencies
    in standards, controls, procedures and policies, and the
    assumption of unexpected liabilities. In addition, projections
    of estimated future revenues, costs savings or operating metrics
    that we develop during the due diligence and integration
    planning process could prove to be inaccurate. If we experience
    any of these difficulties, or if we later discover additional
    liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to
    acquisitions, we might not achieve the economic benefit we
    expect, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    Our
    investments are concentrated in seniors housing and healthcare
    real estate, making us more vulnerable economically than if our
    investments were diversified.


 


    We invest primarily in real estate — in particular,
    seniors housing and healthcare properties. This concentration
    exposes us to all of the risks inherent in investments in real
    estate to a greater degree than if our portfolio was
    diversified, and these risks are magnified by the fact that our
    real estate investments are limited to properties used in the
    seniors housing or healthcare industries. If the current
    downturn in the real estate industry continues or intensifies,
    it could adversely affect the value of our properties and our
    ability to sell properties for a price or on terms acceptable to
    us. A downturn in the seniors housing or healthcare industries
    could negatively impact our operating income and earnings, as
    well as our operators’ ability to make rental payments to
    us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 


    Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our
    ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our properties in
    response to changes in economic or other conditions will be
    limited. In addition, transfers of healthcare properties may be
    subject to regulatory approvals that are not required for
    transfers of other types of commercial properties. We cannot
    give any assurances that we will recognize full value for any
    property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons.
    This inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance
    of our investments could adversely affect our business, results
    of operations and financial condition.


 


    The healthcare industry is highly competitive. The occupancy
    levels at, and revenues from, our properties depend on the
    ability of our operators and managers to successfully compete
    with other operators and managers, including on the bases of
    scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and
    financial condition, physical appearance of the properties,
    price, and location. We cannot be certain that our operators and
    managers will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate
    levels that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to
    us. Moreover, our operators and managers may encounter increased
    competition in the future that could limit their ability to
    attract residents and patients or expand their businesses, which
    could





    
    28



Table of Contents





    materially adversely affect their ability to meet their
    obligations to us and, in turn, could have a Material Adverse
    Effect on us.


 


    Furthermore, the healthcare industry is highly regulated, and
    changes in government regulation and reimbursement in the past
    have had material adverse consequences on the industry in
    general, which consequences may not have been contemplated by
    lawmakers and regulators. We cannot assure you that future
    changes in government regulation of healthcare will not have a
    material adverse effect on the healthcare industry, including
    our seniors housing and healthcare operations, tenants and
    operators. Our ability to invest in non-seniors housing or
    non-healthcare properties is restricted by the terms of our
    unsecured revolving credit facilities, so these adverse effects
    may be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments
    outside of real estate or outside of seniors housing or
    healthcare properties.


 



    Our
    tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by
    increasing healthcare regulation and enforcement.


 


    Over the last several years, the regulatory environment
    surrounding the long-term healthcare industry has intensified
    both in the amount and type of regulations and in the efforts to
    enforce those regulations. This is particularly true for large
    for-profit, multi-facility providers like Kindred, Brookdale
    Senior Living and Sunrise. The extensive federal, state and
    local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry
    include those relating to, among other things, licensure,
    conduct of operations, ownership of facilities, addition of
    facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for
    services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient
    rights, fraudulent or abusive behavior, and financial and other
    arrangements which may be entered into by healthcare providers.
    Changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments
    have resulted in a significant increase in the number of
    inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other
    regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare
    and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and Medicaid payments
    for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal
    penalties. See “Governmental Regulation —
    Healthcare Regulation” included in Item 1 of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    If our tenants, operators and managers fail to comply with the
    extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to
    their businesses and the operation of our properties, they could
    become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and
    private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of
    new patients or residents, suffer civil
    and/or
    criminal penalties
    and/or be
    required to make significant changes to their operations. Our
    tenants, operators and managers also could be forced to expend
    considerable resources responding to an investigation or other
    enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. In such
    event, the results of operations and financial condition of our
    tenants, operators and managers and the results of operations of
    our properties operated or managed by those entities could be
    adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us. We are unable to predict the future course
    of federal, state and local regulation or legislation, including
    the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the
    intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulation
    and legislation, and any changes in the regulatory framework
    could likewise have a material adverse effect on our tenants,
    operators and managers, which, in turn, could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us.


 



    Changes
    in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from
    third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid
    programs, could have a material adverse effect on certain of our
    tenants and operators.


 


    Kindred and certain of our other tenants and operators rely on
    reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare
    and Medicaid programs, for substantially all of their revenues.
    Various federal and state legislative and regulatory proposals
    have been made that would implement cost-containment measures
    that limit payments to healthcare providers. Budget crises and
    financial shortfalls could also cause states to implement
    Medicaid rate freezes or cuts. See “Governmental
    Regulation — Healthcare Regulation” included in
    Item 1 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    In addition, private third-party payors have continued their
    efforts to control healthcare costs. We cannot assure you that
    adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services to
    be provided by Kindred and our other tenants and operators that
    are currently being reimbursed by Medicare, Medicaid or private
    payors. Significant limits by governmental and private
    third-party payors on





    
    29



Table of Contents





    the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and
    fees could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity,
    financial condition and results of operations of certain of our
    tenants and operators, which could affect adversely their
    ability to make rental payments under, and otherwise comply with
    the terms of, their leases with us.


 



    We
    have only limited rights to terminate our management agreements
    with Sunrise, and we may be unable to replace Sunrise if our
    management agreements are terminated or not
    renewed.


 


    We and Sunrise are parties to long-term management agreements
    pursuant to which Sunrise currently provides comprehensive
    property management services with respect to 79 of our seniors
    housing communities. Each management agreement has an original
    term of 30 years commencing as early as 2004, but may be
    terminated by us upon the occurrence of an event of default by
    Sunrise in the performance of a material covenant or term
    thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of
    any licenses or certificates necessary for operation), subject
    in most cases to Sunrise’s rights to cure such defaults.
    Each management agreement may also be terminated upon the
    occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Sunrise. In
    addition, we may terminate management agreements based on the
    failure to achieve certain NOI targets or to comply with certain
    expense control covenants. However, various legal and
    contractual considerations may limit or delay our exercise of
    any or all of these termination rights.


 


    In the event that our management agreements with Sunrise are
    terminated for any reason or are not renewed upon expiration of
    their terms, we will have to find another manager for the
    properties covered by those agreements. We believe there are a
    number of qualified national and regional seniors care providers
    that would be interested in managing our Sunrise-managed
    properties. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able
    to locate another suitable manager or, if we are successful in
    locating such a manager, that it will manage the properties
    effectively. Moreover, any such replacement manager would
    require approval by the applicable regulatory authority and, in
    most cases, the mortgage lender of the applicable property. We
    cannot assure you that such approvals would be granted or that,
    if granted, the process of seeking such approvals would not
    cause delay. Any inability or lengthy delay in replacing Sunrise
    as manager following termination or non-renewal of our
    management agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    Our
    investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our
    lack of sole decision-making authority regarding major
    decisions, our reliance on our joint venture partners’
    financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and
    our joint venture partners and our exposure to potential losses
    from the actions of our joint venture partners.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had controlling interests in
    six MOBs owned through joint ventures with partners who provide
    management and leasing services for the properties, and we had
    noncontrolling interests of between 5% and 20% in 58 MOBs owned
    through joint ventures with institutional third parties. These
    joint ventures involve risks not present with respect to our
    wholly owned properties, including the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We may be prevented from taking actions that are opposed by our
    joint venture partners. Under certain of our joint venture
    arrangements, we may share decision-making authority with our
    joint venture partners regarding major decisions affecting the
    ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property
    owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the
    property or the making of additional capital contributions for
    the benefit of the property. For joint ventures where we have a
    noncontrolling interest our joint venture partners may take
    actions that we oppose;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a
    third party may be restricted. Prior consent of our joint
    venture partners may be required for a sale or transfer to a
    third party of our interests in such joint ventures;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund
    their share of required capital contributions, which may delay
    construction or development of a property or increase our
    financial commitment to the joint venture;







    
    30



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals
    with respect to the property that conflict with our business
    interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of
    disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of
    the property;




 



     
        • 

    
    Disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over
    decisions affecting the property or the joint venture, which may
    result in litigation or arbitration that could increase our
    expenses, distract our officers
    and/or
    directors from focusing their time and effort on our business
    and disrupt the
    day-to-day
    operations of the property, such as by delaying the
    implementation of important decisions until the conflict or
    dispute is resolved; and




 



     
        • 

    
    We may suffer losses as a result of the actions of our joint
    venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments.





 



    We may
    be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange
    rates.


 


    We currently own twelve seniors housing communities in the
    Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia. As a result,
    we are subject to fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian
    exchange rates, which may, from time to time, have an impact on
    our financial condition and results of operations. Increases or
    decreases in the value of the Canadian dollar will impact the
    amount of our net income. In addition, if we increase our
    international presence through investments in,
    and/or
    acquisitions or development of, seniors housing
    and/or
    healthcare assets outside the United States, we may transact
    additional business in currencies other than U.S. or
    Canadian dollars. Although we may decide to pursue hedging
    alternatives, including borrowing in local currencies, to
    protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot assure
    you that any such fluctuations will not have a Material Adverse
    Effect on us.


 



    Revenues
    from our senior living operations are dependent on private pay
    sources; Events which adversely affect the ability of seniors to
    afford our daily resident fees could cause our occupancy rates,
    resident fee revenues and results of operations to
    decline.


 


    By and large, assisted and independent living services currently
    are not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs,
    such as Medicare and Medicaid. Hence, substantially all of the
    resident fee revenues generated by our senior living operations
    are derived from private pay sources consisting of income or
    assets of residents or their family members. In general, due to
    the expense associated with building new properties and the
    staffing and other costs of providing services at these
    properties, only seniors with income or assets meeting or
    exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our
    properties are located typically can afford to pay the daily
    resident and care fees. The current economic downturn and
    depressed housing market, as well as other events such as
    changes in demographics, could adversely affect the ability of
    seniors to afford these fees. If Sunrise or another manager is
    unable to attract and retain seniors with sufficient income,
    assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated
    with assisted and independent living services, our occupancy
    rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations could
    decline, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    us.


 



    Our
    ownership of certain properties subject to ground lease, air
    rights or other restrictive agreements exposes us to the loss of
    such properties upon breach or termination of such agreements,
    limits our uses of these properties and restricts our ability to
    sell or otherwise transfer such
    properties.
    


 


    We hold interests in certain of our MOB properties through
    leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are
    located, through leases of air rights for the space above the
    land on which the buildings are located or through similar
    agreements, and we may acquire or develop additional properties
    in the future that are subject to similar ground lease, air
    rights or other restrictive agreements. Under these agreements,
    we are exposed to the possibility of losing our interests in the
    property upon termination or an earlier breach by us. In
    addition, many of our ground lease, air rights and other
    restrictive agreements impose significant limitations on our
    uses of the subject properties and restrict our right to convey
    our interest in such agreements, which may limit our ability to
    timely sell or exchange the properties and impair their value.




    
    31



Table of Contents






    Overbuilding
    in markets in which our seniors housing communities and MOBs are
    located could adversely affect our future occupancy rates,
    operating margins and profitability.


 


    Barriers to entry in the assisted living and MOB industries are
    not substantial. Consequently, the development of new seniors
    housing communities or MOBs could outpace demand. If the
    development of new seniors housing communities or MOBs outpaces
    demand for those asset types in the markets in which our
    properties are located, those markets may become saturated and
    we could experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating
    margins and lower profitability.


 



    Termination
    of resident lease agreements could adversely affect our revenues
    and earnings.


 


    Applicable regulations governing assisted living communities
    generally require written resident lease agreements with each
    resident. Most of these regulations also require that each
    resident have the right to terminate the resident lease
    agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with
    these regulations, the resident lease agreements signed by
    Sunrise with respect to our properties managed by it generally
    allow residents to terminate their lease agreements on
    30 days’ notice. Thus, Sunrise cannot contract with
    residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical
    apartment leasing arrangements with terms of up to one year or
    longer. In addition, the resident turnover rate in our seniors
    housing communities may be difficult to predict. If a large
    number of resident lease agreements terminate at or around the
    same time, and if our units remained unoccupied, then our
    revenues and earnings could be adversely affected, which, in
    turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    Volatility
    or disruption in the capital markets could prevent our
    counterparties from satisfying their obligations to
    us.


 


    Uncertainty in the capital markets and tightening of credit
    markets, similar to that experienced in recent years, could make
    accessing new capital more challenging and more expensive for
    our counterparties. Interest rate fluctuations, financial market
    volatility or credit market disruptions could limit the ability
    of our tenants, operators and managers to obtain credit to
    finance their businesses on acceptable terms, which could
    adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to
    us. In addition, any difficulty experienced by our other
    counterparties, such as letters of credit issuers, insurance
    carriers, banking institutions, title companies and escrow
    agents, in accessing capital or other sources of funds could
    prevent such counterparties from remaining viable entities
    and/or
    satisfying their obligations to us, which could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us.


 



    The
    amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies
    and policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers
    may not adequately insure against losses.


 


    We maintain
    and/or
    require in our existing leases and other agreements that our
    tenants, operators and managers maintain all applicable lines of
    insurance on our properties and their operations. Although we
    continually review the insurance maintained by us and our
    tenants, operators and managers and believe the coverage
    provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our
    industry, we cannot assure you that in the future such insurance
    will be available at a reasonable cost or that we or our
    tenants, operators and managers will be able to maintain
    adequate levels of insurance coverage. We also cannot give any
    assurances as to the future financial viability of our insurers
    or that the insurance coverage provided will fully cover all
    losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic
    event.


 


    Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits
    occur, we could incur substantial liability or lose all or a
    portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well
    as the anticipated future revenues from the property. In such an
    event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage
    debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We
    cannot assure you that material uninsured losses, or losses in
    excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future.


 


    As part of our MOB development business, we provide engineering,
    construction and architectural services, and design,
    construction or systems failures may result in substantial
    injury or damage to clients
    and/or third
    parties. Injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary
    course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed
    projects. Although we maintain liability insurance, if any claim
    results in a





    
    32



Table of Contents





    loss, we cannot assure you that our insurance coverage would be
    adequate to cover the loss in full. If we sustain losses in
    excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to make a
    payment for the difference and could lose our investment in,
    and/or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the
    affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    Significant
    legal actions could subject us or our tenants, operators and
    managers to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured
    liabilities, which could materially adversely affect our or
    their liquidity, financial condition and results of
    operation.


 


    From time to time, we may be directly involved in lawsuits and
    other legal proceedings. We may also be named as defendants in
    lawsuits arising out of alleged actions of our tenants,
    operators and managers for which such tenants, operators and
    managers have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless
    from and against certain claims and liabilities. An unfavorable
    resolution of pending or future litigation could have a Material
    Adverse Effect on us.


 


    Our tenants, operators and managers continue to experience
    increases in both the frequency and severity of professional
    liability claims. In addition to large compensatory claims,
    plaintiffs’ attorneys continue to seek significant punitive
    damages and attorneys’ fees. Due to the historically high
    frequency and severity of professional liability claims against
    healthcare providers, the availability of professional liability
    insurance has been restricted and the premiums on such insurance
    coverage remain very high. As a result, the insurance coverage
    of our tenants, operators and managers might not cover all
    claims against them or continue to be available to them at a
    reasonable cost. If our tenants, operators and managers are
    unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage or are required
    to pay punitive damages, they may be exposed to substantial
    liabilities.


 


    In addition, many healthcare providers are pursuing different
    organizational and corporate structures coupled with
    self-insurance programs that provide less insurance coverage.
    For example, Kindred insures its professional liability risks,
    in part, through a wholly owned, limited purpose insurance
    company, which insures initial losses up to specified coverage
    levels per occurrence with no aggregate coverage limit. Coverage
    for losses in excess of those per occurrence levels is
    maintained through unaffiliated commercial insurance carriers up
    to an aggregate limit, and all claims in excess of the aggregate
    limit are then insured by the limited purpose insurance company.
    Similarly, Sunrise maintains a self-insurance program to cover
    its general and professional liabilities. Our tenants, operators
    and managers, like Kindred and Sunrise, that insure any part of
    their general and professional liability risks through their own
    captive limited purpose entities generally estimate the future
    cost of general and professional liability through actuarial
    studies that rely primarily on historical data. However, due to
    the rise in the number and severity of professional claims
    against healthcare providers, these actuarial studies may
    underestimate the future cost of claims, and reserves for future
    claims may not be adequate to cover the actual cost of those
    claims.


 


    As a result, the tenants, operators and managers of our
    properties could incur large funded and unfunded professional
    liability expense, which could materially adversely affect their
    liquidity, financial condition and results of operations, and,
    in turn, their ability to make rental payments under, or
    otherwise comply with the terms of, their leases with us or,
    with regard to our Sunrise-managed properties, our results of
    operations, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    The
    hospitals on whose campuses our MOBs are located and their
    affiliated health systems could fail to remain competitive or
    financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability
    to attract physicians and physician groups to our
    MOBs.


 


    Our MOB operations depend on the viability of the hospitals on
    or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated
    health systems in order to attract physicians and other
    healthcare-related clients. The viability of these hospitals, in
    turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of
    healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in
    the surrounding community, market position and growth potential,
    as well as the ability of the affiliated health systems to
    provide economies of scale and access to capital. If a hospital
    on or near whose campus one of our MOBs is located is unable to
    meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated health
    system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not
    be able to





    
    33



Table of Contents





    compete successfully or it could be forced to close or relocate,
    which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians
    and other healthcare-related clients. Because we rely on our
    proximity to and affiliations with these hospitals to create
    demand for space in our MOBs, their inability to remain
    competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and
    physician groups, could materially adversely affect our MOB
    operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    We may
    not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with our
    existing and future hospital and health system
    clients.


 


    The success of our MOB business depends, to a large extent, on
    our past, current and future relationships with hospital and
    health system clients. We invest a significant amount of time to
    develop these relationships, and they have helped us to secure
    acquisition and development opportunities, as well as other
    advisory, property management and hospital project management
    projects, with both new and existing clients. If any of our
    relationships with hospital or health system clients
    deteriorates, or if a conflict of interest or non-compete
    arrangement prevents us from expanding these relationships, our
    ability to secure new acquisition and development opportunities
    or other advisory, property management and hospital project
    management projects could be adversely impacted and our
    professional reputation within the industry could be damaged.


 



    Our
    MOB development projects, including development projects
    undertaken on a
    fee-for-service
    basis or through our joint ventures, may not yield anticipated
    returns.


 


    A key component of our MOB long-term growth strategy is
    exploring development opportunities and, when appropriate,
    making investments in those projects. In deciding whether to
    make an investment in a particular MOB development, we make
    certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of
    that property. These assumptions are subject to risks normally
    associated with these projects, including, among others:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    we may be unable to obtain financing for these projects on
    favorable terms or at all;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may not complete development projects on schedule or within
    budgeted amounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary
    zoning, land use, building, occupancy, environmental and other
    required governmental permits and authorizations, or
    underestimate the costs necessary to bring the property up to
    market standards;




 



     
        • 

    
    development and construction delays may give tenants the right
    to terminate preconstruction leases or cause us to incur
    additional costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    volatility in the price of construction materials and labor may
    increase our development costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    hospitals or health systems may maintain significant
    decision-making authority with respect to the development
    schedule;




 



     
        • 

    
    one of our builders may fail to perform or satisfy the
    expectations of our clients or prospective clients;




 



     
        • 

    
    we may incorrectly forecast risks associated with development in
    new geographic regions;




 



     
        • 

    
    tenants may not lease space at the quantity or rental rate
    levels projected;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition from other developments may lure away desirable
    tenants;




 



     
        • 

    
    the demand for the development project may decrease prior to
    completion; and




 



     
        • 

    
    lease rates and rents at newly developed properties may
    fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and
    economic conditions.





 


    Moreover, in MOB development projects undertaken on a
    fee-for-service
    basis, we generally construct properties for clients in exchange
    for a fixed fee, which creates risks such as the inability to
    pass on increased labor and construction material costs to our
    clients, development and construction delays that could give our
    counterparties the right to receive penalties from us, and
    bankruptcy or default by our contractors. We attempt





    
    34



Table of Contents





    to mitigate these risks by establishing certain limits on our
    obligations, shifting some of the risk to the general contractor
    and/or
    seeking other legal protections.


 


    If any of the foregoing risks occur, our MOB development
    projects, including development projects undertaken on a
    fee-for-service
    basis or through our joint ventures, may not yield anticipated
    returns, which could materially adversely affect our MOB
    operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    Our
    operators may be sued under a federal whistleblower
    statute.


 


    Our operators who engage in business with the federal government
    may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to
    combat fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. See
    “Governmental Regulation — Healthcare
    Regulation” included in Item 1 of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.
    These lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and
    award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring
    these suits. If any of these lawsuits were to be brought against
    our operators, such suits combined with increased operating
    costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a
    material adverse effect on the operators’ liquidity,
    financial condition and results of operation and on their
    ability to make rental payments to us, which, in turn, could
    have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    If any
    of our properties are found to be contaminated, or if we become
    involved in any environmental disputes, we could incur
    substantial liabilities and costs.


 


    Under federal and state environmental laws and regulations, a
    current or former owner of real property may be liable for costs
    related to the investigation, removal and remediation of
    hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum that are released
    from or are present at or under, or that are disposed of in
    connection with such property. Owners of real property may also
    face other environmental liabilities, including government fines
    and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities and damages for
    injuries to persons, property or natural resources.
    Environmental laws and regulations often impose liability
    without regard to whether the owner was aware of, or was
    responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of hazardous
    or toxic substances or petroleum. In certain circumstances,
    environmental liability may result from the activities of a
    current or former operator of the property. Although we are
    generally indemnified by the current operators of our properties
    for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not
    adequately cover all environmental costs. See “Governmental
    Regulation — Environmental Regulation” included
    in Item 1 of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Our
    success depends, in part, on our ability to retain key
    personnel, and the loss of any one of them could adversely
    impact our business.


 


    The success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership
    and performance of our executive management team and key
    employees. Our future performance will be substantially
    dependent on our ability to retain and motivate these
    individuals. Competition for these individuals is intense, and
    we cannot give any assurances that we will retain our key
    officers and employees or that we can attract or retain other
    highly qualified individuals in the future. Losing any one or
    more of these persons could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    Failure
    to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting
    could harm our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to
    provide a report by management on internal control over
    financial reporting, including management’s assessment of
    the effectiveness of such control. Changes to our business will
    necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and
    processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not
    prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent
    limitations, including the possibility of human error, the
    circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore,
    even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable
    assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation
    of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of
    our internal controls, including any failure to implement
    required new or improved controls, or if we experience
    difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of
    operations and financial condition could be materially adversely
    harmed and we could fail to meet our reporting obligations.




    
    35



Table of Contents






    If the
    liabilities we have assumed in connection with acquisitions are
    greater than expected, or if there are unknown liabilities, our
    business could be materially and adversely
    affected.


 


    We have assumed certain liabilities in connection with our past
    acquisitions, such as the Lillibridge acquisition, including, in
    some cases, contingent liabilities, and we expect to assume
    certain liabilities in connection with the Atria acquisition, if
    consummated. As we integrate these acquisitions, we may learn
    additional information about the seller and assumed liabilities
    that adversely affects us, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Liabilities relating to the
    clean-up or
    remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the
    seller;




 



     
        • 

    
    Liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in
    the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to
    our acquisition;




 



     
        • 

    
    Claims for indemnification by general partners, directors,
    officers and others indemnified by the seller; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our
    acquisition.





 


    As a result, we cannot assure you that our past acquisitions
    will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business.
    Among other things, if the liabilities we have assumed are
    greater than expected, or if there are obligations relating to
    the acquired properties of which we were not aware at the time
    we completed the acquisition, our business could be materially
    adversely affected.


 



    Risks
    Arising from Our Capital Structure


 



    Limitations
    on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on
    our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our
    stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement
    our business plan.


 


    In order to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our
    stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement
    our business plan, we may need to raise additional capital. In
    recent years, the global capital and credit markets have
    experienced a period of extraordinary turmoil and upheaval,
    characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various
    financial institutions and an unprecedented level of
    intervention from the U.S. federal government. This
    disruption in the credit markets, the repricing of credit risk
    and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets
    created difficult conditions for REITs and other companies to
    access capital or other sources of funds. These conditions
    included greater stock price volatility, significantly less
    liquidity, widening of credit spreads and a lack of price
    transparency. Although access to capital and other sources of
    funding improved in 2010, conditions remain difficult and could
    deteriorate further. We cannot predict for how long access to
    capital and other sources of funding will remain constrained or
    the extent to which our results of operation and financial
    condition may be adversely affected.


 


    While we currently have no reason to believe that we will be
    unable to access our unsecured revolving credit facilities in
    the future, concern about the stability of the markets generally
    and the strength of borrowers specifically led many lenders and
    institutional investors in recent years to reduce and, in some
    cases, cease funding to borrowers. In addition, the financial
    institutions that are parties to our unsecured revolving credit
    facilities might have incurred losses or might have reduced
    capital reserves on account of their prior lending to borrowers,
    their holdings of certain mortgage securities or their other
    financial relationships. As a result, these financial
    institutions might be or become capital constrained and might
    tighten their lending standards, or become insolvent. If they
    experience shortages of capital and liquidity, or if they
    experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other
    borrowers within a short period of time, these lenders might not
    be able or willing to honor their funding commitments to us,
    which would adversely affect our ability to draw on our
    unsecured revolving credit facilities and, over time, could
    negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay
    indebtedness as it matures, fund capital expenditures or make
    distributions to our stockholders. Continued adverse conditions
    in the credit markets in future years could also adversely
    affect the availability and terms of future borrowings, renewals
    or refinancings.




    
    36



Table of Contents





    To address any such capital constraints, we could, among other
    things, (i) obtain commitments from the remaining banks in
    our lending group or from new banks to fund increased amounts
    under the terms of our unsecured revolving credit facilities,
    (ii) access the public capital markets, (iii) obtain
    secured loans from government-sponsored entities, pension funds
    or similar sources, (iv) decrease or eliminate
    distributions to our stockholders or pay taxable stock
    dividends,
    and/or
    (v) delay or cease our acquisition and investment activity.
    As with other public companies, the availability of debt and
    equity capital depends, in part, on the trading levels of our
    bonds and the market price of our common stock, which, in turn,
    depend upon various market conditions, such as the market’s
    perception of our financial condition, our growth potential and
    our current and future earnings and cash distributions, that
    change from time to time. Our failure to meet the market’s
    expectation with regard to future earnings and cash
    distributions would likely adversely affect our bond trading
    levels and the market price of our common stock. Moreover, a
    significant downgrade in the ratings assigned to our long-term
    debt could cause our borrowing costs to increase and impact our
    ability to access capital. If we cannot access capital at an
    acceptable cost or at all, we may be required to liquidate one
    or more investments in properties at times that may not permit
    us to realize the maximum return on those investments, which
    could also result in adverse tax consequences to us.
    Restrictions on our uses and right to transfer our properties
    under certain healthcare regulations, ground leases, mortgages
    and other agreements to which our properties may be subject
    could adversely impact our ability to timely liquidate those
    investments and could impair the value of our properties. We
    cannot assure you that we will be able to raise the necessary
    capital to meet our debt service obligations, make distributions
    to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to
    implement our business plan, and the failure to do so could have
    a Material Adverse Effect on us.


 



    We may
    become more leveraged.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    $2.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness. The instruments
    governing our existing indebtedness permit us to incur
    substantial additional debt, and we may borrow additional funds,
    which may include secured borrowings. A high level of
    indebtedness would require us to dedicate a substantial portion
    of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service,
    thereby reducing the funds available to implement our business
    strategy and to make distributions to stockholders. A high level
    of indebtedness could also have the following consequences:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Potential limits on our ability to adjust rapidly to changing
    market conditions and vulnerability in the event of a downturn
    in general economic conditions or in the real estate
    and/or
    healthcare industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    Potential impairment of our ability to obtain additional
    financing for our business strategy; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Potential downgrade in the rating of our debt securities by one
    or more rating agencies, which could have the effect of, among
    other things, limiting our access to capital and increasing our
    cost of borrowing.





 


    In addition, from time to time we mortgage our properties to
    secure payment of indebtedness. If we are unable to meet our
    mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be
    foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a
    consequent loss of income and asset value. A foreclosure on one
    or more of our properties could have a Material Adverse Effect
    on us.


 



    We are
    exposed to increases in interest rates, which could reduce our
    profitability and adversely impact our ability to refinance
    existing debt, sell assets or engage in acquisition and
    investment activity, and our decision to hedge against interest
    rate risk might not be effective.


 


    We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our
    assets under long-term
    triple-net
    leases in which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual
    rent escalations, subject to certain limitations. Certain of our
    debt obligations are floating rate obligations with interest
    rate and related payments that vary with the movement of LIBOR,
    Bankers’ Acceptance or other indexes. The generally fixed
    rate nature of our revenues and the variable rate nature of
    certain of our obligations create interest rate risk. Although
    our operating assets





    
    37



Table of Contents





    provide a partial hedge against interest rate fluctuations, if
    interest rates rise, our interest costs for our existing
    floating rate debt and any new debt we incur would also
    increase. This increased cost could have the effect of reducing
    our profitability or making our lease and other revenues
    insufficient to meet our obligations, and could make the
    financing of any acquisition or investment activity more costly.
    Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to
    refinance existing debt when it matures or cause us to pay
    higher rates upon refinancing. An increase in interest rates may
    also decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for
    our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our
    portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other
    conditions.


 


    We may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility
    by using hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the
    risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations
    under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be
    effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes,
    that the amount of income we may earn from hedging transactions
    may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and
    that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than
    we would otherwise have. Moreover, no amount of hedging activity
    can completely insulate us from the risks associated with
    changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against
    interest rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities,
    could adversely affect our results of operations and financial
    condition.


 



    Covenants
    in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness limit our
    operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially
    adversely affect our operations.


 


    The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness
    require us to comply with a number of customary financial and
    other covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage,
    leverage ratios and net worth requirements. Our continued
    ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in
    general is subject to compliance with these covenants, which
    limit our operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants
    could result in defaults under the applicable debt instruments,
    in addition to any other indebtedness cross-defaulted against
    such instruments, even if we satisfy our payment obligations.
    Financial and other covenants that limit our operational
    flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from our breach of
    any of these covenants, could have a Material Adverse Effect on
    us.


 



    Risks
    Arising from Our Status as a REIT


 



    Loss
    of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse
    consequences to us and the value of our common
    stock.


 


    If we lose our status as a REIT (currently
    and/or with
    respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations
    has not expired), we will face serious tax consequences that
    will substantially reduce the funds available for satisfying our
    obligations and for distribution to our stockholders for each of
    the years involved because:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to
    stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be
    subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    We also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax
    and possibly increased state and local taxes; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we
    could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four taxable
    years following the year during which we were disqualified.





 


    In addition, in such event we would no longer be required to pay
    dividends to maintain REIT status. As a result of all these
    factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our
    ability to implement our business strategy and would adversely
    affect the value of our common stock.


 


    Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly
    technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only
    limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The
    determination of various factual matters and circumstances not
    entirely within our control may affect our ability to remain
    qualified as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, regulations,
    administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely
    affect





    
    38



Table of Contents





    our investors or our ability to remain qualified as a REIT for
    tax purposes. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we
    cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain
    qualified as a REIT for tax purposes.


 



    The
    90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may
    limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial
    transactions.


 


    To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to
    REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
    distributions to our stockholders. See “Certain
    U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations —
    Requirements for Qualification as a REIT — Annual
    Distribution Requirements” included in Item 1 of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    The indentures governing our outstanding senior notes permit us
    to make annual distributions to our stockholders in an amount
    equal to the minimum amount necessary to maintain our REIT
    status so long as the ratio of our Debt to Adjusted Total Assets
    (as each term is defined in the indentures) does not exceed 60%
    and to make additional distributions if we pass certain other
    financial tests. However, distributions may limit our ability to
    rely upon rental payments from our properties or subsequently
    acquired properties to finance investments, acquisitions or new
    developments.


 


    Although we anticipate that we generally will have sufficient
    cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the REIT
    distribution requirement, it is possible that, from time to
    time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to
    meet the 90% distribution requirement. This may be due to timing
    differences between the actual receipt of income and actual
    payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the
    inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in
    arriving at our taxable income, on the other hand. In addition,
    non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or
    repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash
    deductions also may cause us to fail to have sufficient cash or
    liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution
    requirement.


 


    In the event that timing differences occur or we decide to
    retain cash or to distribute such greater amount as may be
    necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, we may, if
    possible, borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay
    taxable stock dividends, distribute other property or securities
    or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the
    REIT distribution requirements. Any of these actions may require
    us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations; however,
    see “— Risks Arising from Our Capital
    Structure — Limitations on our ability to access
    capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our
    debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make
    future investments necessary to implement our business
    plan.” The terms of the instruments governing our existing
    indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in some of these
    transactions.


 



    To
    preserve our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of
    incorporation contains ownership limits with respect to our
    capital stock that may delay, defer or prevent a change of
    control of our company.


 


    To assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT, our
    certificate of incorporation provides that if a person acquires
    beneficial ownership of more than 9.9% of our outstanding
    preferred stock or 9.0% of our common stock, the shares that are
    beneficially owned in excess of the applicable limit are
    considered to be “excess shares” and are automatically
    deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable
    institution or other qualifying organization selected by our
    Board of Directors. The trust is entitled to all dividends with
    respect to the excess shares and the trustee may exercise all
    voting power over the excess shares. We have the right to buy
    the excess shares for a purchase price equal to the lesser of
    (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the
    excess shares or (ii) the market price on the day we buy
    the shares, but if we do not purchase them, the trustee of the
    trust is required to transfer the excess shares at the direction
    of our Board of Directors. These ownership limits could delay,
    defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might
    involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise
    be in the best interests of our stockholders.




    
    39



Table of Contents






    If we
    decide to pay taxable stock dividends to meet the REIT
    distribution requirements, your tax liability may be greater
    than the amount of cash you receive.


 


    Under Revenue Procedure 2010-12, the IRS has stated that it will
    treat stock dividends as distributions for purposes of
    satisfying the REIT distribution requirements for calendar years
    2008 through 2012 if each stockholder can elect to receive the
    distribution in cash, even if the aggregate cash amount paid to
    all stockholders is limited, provided certain requirements are
    met. Accordingly, if we decide to pay a stock dividend in
    accordance with Revenue Procedure
    2010-12,
    your tax liability with respect to such dividend may be
    significantly greater than the amount of cash you receive.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B