ITEM 1A.    Risk Factors        

        This section discusses the most significant factors that affect our business, operations and financial condition. It does not describe
all risks and uncertainties applicable to us, our industry or ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks, or any other risks and uncertainties that we have not yet identified or that
we currently deem not material, actually occur, we could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the value of our securities could decline. 

        We
have grouped these risk factors into three general categories:



•Risks arising from our business; 
•Risks arising from our capital structure; and 
•Risks arising from our status as a REIT. 


 Risks Arising from Our Business  

 We depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale
Senior Living to satisfy its obligations under its agreements with us could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  

        The properties we lease to Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living account for a significant portion of our revenues and NOI, and since the
Kindred Master Leases and our leases with Brookdale Senior Living are triple-net leases, we also depend on Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities and
maintenance and repair expenses in connection with the leased properties. We cannot provide any assurance that Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income and access to
financing to enable them to make rental payments to us or to otherwise satisfy those obligations, and any inability or unwillingness by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to do so could have a
Material Adverse Effect on us. In addition, any failure by Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living to effectively conduct its operations or to maintain and improve our properties could adversely affect its
business reputation and its ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. Kindred and Brookdale Senior Living have also
agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless from and against various claims, litigation and liabilities arising in connection with their respective businesses, and we cannot provide any assurance
that either Kindred or Brookdale Senior Living will have sufficient assets, income, access to financing and insurance coverage to enable it to satisfy its indemnification obligations. 

 The properties managed by Atria and Sunrise account for a significant portion of our revenues and operating income; Although Atria and Sunrise are managers, not tenants, of
our properties, adverse developments in their businesses and affairs or financial condition could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  

        As of December 31, 2011, Atria and Sunrise, collectively, managed 197 of our seniors housing communities pursuant to
long-term management agreements. These properties represent a substantial portion of our portfolio, based on their gross book value, and account for a significant portion of our revenues
and NOI. Although we have various rights as the property owner under our management agreements, we rely on Atria's and Sunrise's personnel, good faith, expertise, historical performance, technical
resources and information systems, proprietary
information and judgment to manage our seniors housing communities efficiently and effectively. We also rely on Atria and Sunrise to set resident fees, to provide accurate property-level financial
results for our properties in a timely manner and to otherwise operate our properties in accordance with the terms of our management agreements 

29




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

and
in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. For example, we depend on Atria's and Sunrise's ability to attract and retain skilled management personnel who are responsible for the
day-to-day operations of our seniors housing communities. A shortage of nurses or other trained personnel or general inflationary pressures may force Sunrise or Atria to
enhance its pay and benefits package to compete effectively for such personnel, and Atria or Sunrise may not be able to offset such added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any
increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses, any failure by Atria or Sunrise to attract and retain qualified personnel, or significant changes in Atria's or Sunrise's senior
management could adversely affect the income we receive from our seniors housing communities and have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

        Because
Atria and Sunrise manage, but do not lease, our properties, we are not directly exposed to their credit risk in the same manner or to the same extent as a triple-net
tenant. However, any adverse developments in Atria's or Sunrise's business and affairs or financial condition could impair their ability to manage our properties efficiently and effectively and could
have a Material Adverse Effect on us. If Atria or Sunrise experiences any significant financial, legal, accounting or regulatory difficulties due to the weakened economy or otherwise, such
difficulties could result in, among other adverse events, acceleration of its indebtedness, impairment of its continued access to capital, the enforcement of default remedies by its counterparties, or
the commencement of insolvency proceedings by or against it under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, any one or a combination of which indirectly could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

 We face potential adverse consequences of bankruptcy or insolvency by our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers and other obligors.  


        We are exposed to the risk that our tenants, operators, borrowers, managers or other obligors could become bankrupt or insolvent.
Although our lease, loan and management agreements provide us with the right to exercise certain remedies in the event of default on the obligations owing to us or upon the occurrence of certain
insolvency events, the bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization. For example, a debtor-lessee may reject its lease with us in a
bankruptcy proceeding. In such a case, our claim against the debtor-lessee for unpaid and future rents would be limited by the statutory cap of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap could be
substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease, and any claim we have for unpaid rent might not be paid in full. In addition, a
debtor-lessee may assert in a bankruptcy proceeding that its lease should be re-characterized as a financing agreement. If such a claim is successful, our rights and remedies as a lender,
compared to a landlord, are generally more limited. Similarly, if a debtor-manager seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from
enforcing our remedies against the manager unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. In the event of an obligor bankruptcy, we may also be required
to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or
transition our properties to a new tenant, operator or manager. 

 If we must replace any of our tenants or operators, we might be unable to reposition the properties on as favorable terms, or at all, and we could be subject to delays,
limitations and expenses, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  

        We cannot predict whether our tenants will renew existing leases beyond their current term. If the Kindred Master Leases, our leases
with Brookdale Senior Living or any of our other leases are not renewed, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator. In case of non-renewal, we
generally have one year prior to expiration of the lease term to arrange for repositioning of the properties and our tenants are required to continue to perform all of their obligations (including the
payment of all rental amounts) for the non-renewed assets until such 

30




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

expiration.
However, following expiration of a lease term or if we exercise our right to replace a tenant or operator in default, rental payments on the related properties could decline or cease
altogether while we reposition the properties with a suitable replacement tenant or operator. We also might not be successful in identifying suitable replacements or entering into leases with new
tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all, and we may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, debt
costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. In addition, we may incur certain obligations and
liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

        Our
ability to reposition our properties with a suitable tenant or operator could be significantly delayed or limited by state licensing, receivership, CON or other laws, as well as by
the Medicare and Medicaid change-of-ownership rules. We could also incur substantial additional expenses in connection with any licensing, receivership or
change-of-ownership proceedings. In addition, our ability to locate suitable replacement tenants could be impaired by the specialized healthcare uses or contractual
restrictions on use of the properties, and we may be required to spend substantial amounts to adapt the
properties to other uses. Any such delays, limitations and expenses could adversely impact our ability to collect rent, obtain possession of leased properties or otherwise exercise remedies for tenant
default and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

 We have only limited rights to terminate our management agreements with Atria and Sunrise, and we may be unable to replace Atria or Sunrise if our management agreements are
terminated or not renewed.  

        We are parties to long-term management agreements with each of Atria and Sunrise pursuant to which Atria and Sunrise,
collectively, provide comprehensive property management and accounting services with respect to 197 of our seniors housing communities. 

        Each
management agreement with Atria has a term of ten years commencing in 2011, subject to successive automatic ten-year renewal periods, and each management agreement with
Sunrise has a term of 30 years commencing as early as 2004. Each management agreement with Atria or Sunrise may be terminated by us upon the occurrence of an event of default by Atria or
Sunrise, respectively, in the performance of a material covenant or term thereof (including, in certain circumstances, the revocation of any license or certificate necessary for operation), subject in
most cases to the defaulting party's right to cure such default, or upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events relating to Atria or Sunrise, respectively. In addition, we may terminate each
management agreement with Atria based on the failure to achieve certain NOI targets, and we may terminate each management agreement with Sunrise based on the failure to achieve certain NOI targets or
to comply with certain expense control covenants. Under certain circumstances, we may also terminate each management agreement with Atria upon the payment of a fee. Notwithstanding the provisions in
our management agreements, legal, contractual and other considerations may limit or delay our exercise of any or all of these termination rights. 


        In
the event that our management agreements with Atria or Sunrise are terminated for any reason or are not renewed upon expiration of their terms, we would attempt to find another
manager for the properties covered by those agreements. Although we believe that many qualified national and regional seniors care providers would be interested in managing our seniors housing
communities, we cannot provide any assurance that we would be able to locate another suitable manager or, if we are successful in locating such a manager, that it would manage the properties
effectively. Moreover, any such replacement manager would require approval by the applicable regulatory authorities and, in most cases, the mortgage lenders for the properties, and we cannot provide
any assurance that such approvals would be granted on a timely basis or at all. Any inability or lengthy delay in replacing Atria or Sunrise as manager following termination or non-renewal
of our management agreements could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

31




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents


 Our significant acquisition activity presents certain risks to our business and operations.  

        In 2010 and 2011, we acquired or signed definitive agreements to acquire more than $12 billion of assets, including our
acquisitions of Lillibridge, NHP and substantially all of the real estate assets of ASLG and our pending acquisition of Cogdell. Our significant acquisition activity presents certain risks to our
business and operations, including, among other things, that:



•We may be unable to successfully integrate the operations or information technology of acquired companies, maintain
consistent standards, controls, policies and procedures, or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions within the anticipated timeframe or at all;  
•We may be unable to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties, retain key employees or attract
highly qualified new employees; 
•Projections of estimated future revenues, costs savings or operating metrics that we develop during the due diligence and
integration planning process might be inaccurate; 
•Acquisitions could divert management's attention from our existing assets;  
•The value of acquired assets or the market price of our common stock may decline; and  
•We may be unable to continue paying dividends at the current rate. 


        We
cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to achieve the economic benefit we expect from acquired properties or integrate acquisitions without encountering difficulties or
that any such difficulties will not have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

 We have now, and may have in the future, exposure to contingent rent escalators, which can hinder our growth and profitability.  

        We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in
which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual escalations. Certain of our leases contain escalators contingent upon the achievement of specified revenue parameters or based on changes in the
Consumer Price Index. If, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors, the revenues generated by our triple-net leased properties do not meet the specified parameters or the
Consumer Price Index does not increase, our growth and profitability will be hindered by these leases. 

 We are exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims with respect to our operating assets, which could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues or
increase our costs and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us.  

        We are exposed to various operational risks, liabilities and claims with respect to our senior living and MOB operating assets, which
could increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, thereby reducing our profitability. These operational risks include fluctuations in occupancy levels, the inability to
achieve economic resident fees (including anticipated increases in those fees), rent control regulations, increases in costs of food, materials, energy, labor (as a result of unionization or
otherwise) and other services, national and regional economic conditions, the imposition of new or increased taxes, capital expenditure requirements, professional and general liability claims, and the
availability and cost of professional and general liability insurance. Any or a combination of these factors could result in operating deficiencies in our senior living operations or MOB operations
reportable business segments, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

32




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 The weakened economy could adversely impact our revenues and operating income, as well as the operating results of our tenants and operators, which could impair their
ability to meet their obligations to us.  

        Continued concerns about the U.S. economy and the systemic impact of high unemployment, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the
availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a severely distressed real estate market have contributed to increased market volatility and weakened business and consumer confidence. If
this difficult operating environment continues or worsens, it could increase our costs or adversely affect our ability to generate revenues in our senior living and MOB operations, thereby reducing
our operating income or causing us to experience operating deficiencies. It could also have an adverse impact on the ability of our tenants and operators to maintain occupancy and rates in our
properties, which could harm their financial condition and impair their ability to make their rental payments and satisfy their other obligations to us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on
us. 

 Legislation to address the federal government's projected operating deficit could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial condition or results
of operations.  

        President Obama and members of the U.S. Congress have recently proposed various spending cuts and tax reform initiatives to reduce the
federal government's projected operating deficit. Some of these initiatives could result in changes (including substantial reductions in funding) to Medicare, Medicaid or Medicare Advantage Plans.
Future federal legislation relating to deficit reduction that reduces reimbursement payments to healthcare providers could have a material adverse effect on our operators' liquidity, financial
condition or results of operations, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

 We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our mortgage loan investments, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be
unable to successfully reposition the properties, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments.  

        If a borrower defaults under any of our mortgage loans, to protect our interest, we may foreclose on the loan or acquire title to the
property and make substantial
improvements or repairs to maximize the property's investment potential. In response to our actions to enforce mortgage obligations, the defaulting borrower may contest enforcement of foreclosure or
other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies, or bring claims for lender liability. If the borrower seeks bankruptcy protection, the automatic stay
provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing foreclosure or other remedies against the borrower unless relief is first obtained from the court having jurisdiction over the
bankruptcy case. Foreclosure-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in property value could prevent us from realizing the full amount of our mortgage loans upon
foreclosure, and we could be required to record valuation allowance for such losses. Even if we successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our mortgage loan investments, we may inherit
properties that we are unable to expeditiously reposition with new tenants or operators, if at all, which would adversely affect our ability to recover our investment. 


 Our pursuit of investments in, and acquisitions or development of, seniors housing and healthcare assets may be unsuccessful or fail to meet our expectations.  

        We intend to continue to pursue investments in, and acquisitions or development of, additional seniors housing and healthcare assets
domestically and internationally, subject to the contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness. Investments in and acquisitions of these properties entail
general risks associated with any real estate investment, including risks that the investment's performance will fail to meet expectations, that the cost estimates for necessary property improvements
will prove inaccurate or that the tenant, operator or manager will 

33




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

underperform.
Furthermore, healthcare properties are often highly customized and may require costly tenant-specific improvements. 

        Our
ability to compete successfully for investment and acquisition opportunities is affected by many factors, including our cost of obtaining debt and equity capital at rates comparable
to or better than our competitors. When we attempt to finance, acquire or develop properties, we compete with other healthcare REITs, healthcare providers, healthcare lenders, real estate
partnerships, banks, insurance companies, private equity firms and other investors, some of whom have greater financial resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it
more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business objectives and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby
impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. See "Business—Competition" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 


        In
addition, new development projects that we pursue may experience construction delays or cost overruns that increase our expenses, fail to obtain required zoning, occupancy and other
governmental approvals and permits on a timely basis, or remain incomplete after incurring significant development costs. Investments in and acquisitions of properties outside the United States create
additional legal, economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries, such as currency exchange fluctuations and foreign tax risks. If we incur additional debt or issue equity
securities, or both, to finance future investments, acquisitions or development activity, our leverage could increase or our per share financial results could decline. 


 Our investments are concentrated in seniors housing and healthcare real estate, making us more vulnerable economically than if our investments were diversified.  

        We invest primarily in seniors housing and healthcare properties, and our ability to make investments outside the seniors housing or
healthcare industries is restricted by the terms of our existing indebtedness. This concentration exposes us to greater economic risk than if our portfolio included real estate assets in other
industries or non-real estate assets. For example, the healthcare industry is highly regulated, and changes in government regulation and reimbursement can have material adverse
consequences on the healthcare industry, some of which may be unintended. We cannot provide any assurance that future changes in government regulation of healthcare will not adversely affect the
healthcare industry, including our seniors housing and healthcare operations, tenants and operators, which could have a more pronounced effect on us than if our investments were further diversified. 

        The
healthcare industry is also highly competitive. The occupancy levels at, and revenues from, our properties depend on the ability of our tenants, operators and managers to
successfully compete with other operators and managers, including with respect to the scope and quality of care and services provided, reputation and financial condition, physical appearance of the
properties, price and location. We cannot be certain that our tenants, operators and managers will be able to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels that will enable them to meet all of their
obligations to us, and our operators and managers may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to attract residents and patients or expand their businesses, which could
materially adversely affect their ability to meet their obligations to us and have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

        Real
estate investments are relatively illiquid, and our ability to quickly sell or exchange our properties in response to changes in economic or other conditions is limited. In the
event we desire or need to sell any of our properties, the value of those properties and our ability to sell at a price or on terms acceptable to us could be adversely affected by the current downturn
in the real estate industry or any weakness in the seniors housing and healthcare industries. In addition, transfers of healthcare properties may be subject to regulatory approvals that are not
required for transfers of other types of 

34




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

commercial
properties. We cannot provide any assurance that we will recognize full value for any property that we sell for liquidity or other reasons, and the inability to respond quickly to changes
in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 

 Our tenants, operators and managers may be adversely affected by increasing healthcare regulation and enforcement.  

        Over the last several years, the regulatory environment of the long-term healthcare industry has intensified both in the
amount and type of regulations and in the efforts to enforce those regulations. This is particularly true for large for-profit, multi-facility providers like Kindred, Brookdale Senior
Living, Atria and Sunrise. The extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry include those relating to, among other things, licensure, conduct of
operations, ownership of facilities, addition of facilities and equipment, allowable costs, services, prices for services, qualified beneficiaries, quality of care, patient rights, fraudulent or
abusive behavior, and financial and other arrangements that may be entered into by healthcare providers. Changes in enforcement policies by federal and state governments have resulted in a significant
increase in the number of inspections, citations of regulatory deficiencies and other regulatory sanctions, including terminations from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, bars on Medicare and
Medicaid payments for new admissions, civil monetary penalties and even criminal penalties. See "Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation" included in Item 1 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K. 

        If
our tenants, operators and managers fail to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their businesses and the operation of our properties, they
could become ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental and private third-party payor programs, face bans on admissions of new patients or residents, suffer civil or criminal penalties or
be required to make significant changes to their operations. Our tenants, operators and managers also could be forced to expend considerable resources responding to an investigation or other
enforcement action under applicable laws or regulations. In such event, the results of operations and financial condition of our tenants, operators and managers and the results of operations of our
properties operated or managed by those entities could be adversely affected, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. We are unable to predict future federal, state and local
regulations and legislation, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such regulations and legislation, and any changes in
the regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on our tenants, operators and managers, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

 Changes in the reimbursement rates or methods of payment from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, could have a material adverse effect on
certain of our tenants and operators.  

        Certain of our tenants and operators rely on reimbursement from third-party payors, including the Medicare and Medicaid programs, for
substantially all of their revenues. Federal and state legislators and regulators have adopted or proposed various cost-containment measures that would limit payments to healthcare
providers, and budget crises and financial shortfalls have caused states to implement or consider Medicaid rate freezes or cuts. See "Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation"
included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Similarly, private third-party payors have continued their efforts to control healthcare costs. We cannot provide any
assurance that adequate reimbursement levels will be available for services to be provided by our tenants and operators that currently depend on Medicare, Medicaid or private payor reimbursement.
Significant limits by governmental and private third-party payors on the scope of services reimbursed or on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity,
financial condition and results of operations of certain of our tenants and operators, which could affect adversely their ability to make rental payments under, and otherwise comply with the terms of,
their leases with us. 

35






<A
NAME="page_di73801_1_36"> 



































  
Table of Contents 

 Revenues from our senior living operations are dependent on private pay sources; Events which adversely affect the ability of seniors and their families to afford daily
resident fees at our seniors housing communities could cause our occupancy rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations to decline.  

        By and large, assisted and independent living services currently are not reimbursable under government reimbursement programs, such as
Medicare and Medicaid. Hence, substantially all of the resident fee revenues generated by our senior living operations are derived from private pay sources consisting of income or assets of residents
or their family members. In general, due to the expense associated with building new properties and the staffing and other costs of providing services at these properties, only seniors with income or
assets meeting or exceeding the comparable median in the regions where our properties are located typically can afford to pay the daily resident and care fees. The continued weak economy and depressed
housing market, as well as other events such as changes in demographics, could adversely affect the ability of seniors and their families to afford these fees. If the managers of our seniors housing
communities are unable to attract and retain seniors with sufficient income, assets or other resources required to pay the fees associated with assisted and independent living services, our occupancy
rates, resident fee revenues and results of operations could decline, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

 Our investments in joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority regarding major decisions, our reliance on our joint venture
partners' financial condition, any disputes that may arise between us and our joint venture partners, and our exposure to potential losses from the actions of our joint venture partners.  

        As of December 31, 2011, we had controlling interests in eleven MOBs and eighteen seniors housing communities owned through
joint ventures with third parties, and we had noncontrolling interests of between 5% and 25% in 58 MOBs, 20 seniors housing communities and fourteen skilled nursing facilities owned through joint
ventures with third parties. These joint ventures involve risks not present with respect to our wholly owned properties, including the following:



•We may be unable to take actions that are opposed by our joint venture partners under arrangements that require us to
share decision-making authority over major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any property owned by the joint venture, such as the sale or financing of the
property or the making of additional capital contributions for the benefit of the property; 
•For joint ventures in which we have a noncontrolling interest, our joint venture partners may take actions that we oppose;  
•Our ability to sell or transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted without prior consent
of our joint venture partners; 
•Our joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, which may
delay construction or development of a property or increase our financial commitment to the joint venture; 
•Our joint venture partners may have business interests or goals with respect to a property that conflict with our business
interests and goals, which could increase the likelihood of disputes regarding the ownership, management or disposition of the property; 
•We may disagree with our joint venture partners about decisions affecting a property or the joint venture, which could
result in litigation or arbitration that increases our expenses, distracts our officers and directors and disrupts the day-to-day operations of the property, including by
delaying important decisions until the dispute is resolved; and 

36




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•We may suffer losses as a result of actions taken by our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture
investments. 


 We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates.  

        Our ownership of twelve seniors housing communities in the Canadian provinces of Ontario and British Columbia subjects us to
fluctuations in U.S. and Canadian exchange rates, which may, from time to time, impact our financial condition and results of operations. If we increase our international presence through investments
in, or acquisitions or development of, seniors housing or healthcare assets outside the United States, we may transact business in currencies other than U.S. or Canadian dollars. Although we may
pursue hedging alternatives, including borrowing in local currencies, to protect against foreign currency fluctuations, we cannot provide any assurance that such fluctuations will not have a Material
Adverse Effect on us. 

 Our ownership of certain properties subject to ground lease, air rights or other restrictive agreements exposes us to the loss of such properties upon breach or termination
of such agreements, limits our uses of these properties and restricts our ability to sell or otherwise transfer such properties.  

        We have investments in many of our MOBs and certain other properties through leasehold interests in the land on which the buildings are
located, through leases of air rights for the space above the land on which the buildings are located or through similar agreements, and we may acquire or develop additional properties in the future
that are subject to similar ground lease, air rights or other restrictive agreements. Under these agreements, we could lose our interests in the property upon termination or an earlier breach by us.
In addition, many of our ground lease, air rights and other restrictive agreements impose significant limitations on our uses of the subject properties, restrict our right to convey our interests in
such properties, which may limit our ability to timely sell or
exchange the properties and impair their value, or restrict the leasing of such properties, which may negatively impact our ability to find suitable tenants for the properties. 


 Overbuilding in markets in which our seniors housing communities and MOBs are located could adversely affect our future occupancy rates, operating margins and profitability.  

        The seniors housing and MOB industries generally have limited barriers to entry, and, as a consequence, the development of new seniors
housing communities or MOBs could outpace demand. If development outpaces demand for those asset types in the markets in which our properties are located, those markets may become saturated and we
could experience decreased occupancy, reduced operating margins and lower profitability. 

 Termination of resident lease agreements could adversely affect our revenues and earnings.  


        Applicable regulations governing assisted living communities generally require a written lease agreement with each resident that gives
the resident the right to terminate his or her lease agreement for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, the resident lease agreements entered into by the managers of our
seniors housing communities generally allow residents to terminate their lease agreements on 30 days' notice. Thus, unlike typical apartment lease agreements that have terms of one year or
longer, our managers cannot contract with residents to stay for longer periods of time. In addition, the resident turnover rate in our seniors housing communities may be difficult to predict. If a
large number of resident lease agreements terminate at or around the same time, and if the affected units remain unoccupied, our revenues and earnings could be adversely affected, which, in turn,
could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

37




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 The hospitals on whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated health systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact
their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs.  

        Our MOB operations depend on the viability of the hospitals on or near whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated health
systems in order to attract physicians
and other healthcare-related clients. The viability of these hospitals, in turn, depends on factors such as the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, competition, demographic trends in the
surrounding community, market position and growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated health systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. If a hospital on or near whose
campus one of our MOBs is located is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated health system is unable to support that hospital, the hospital may not be able to compete
successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related clients. Because we rely on our proximity to and
affiliations with these hospitals to create demand for space in our MOBs, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could materially
adversely affect our MOB operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

 Volatility or disruption in the capital markets could prevent our counterparties from satisfying their obligations to us.  

        Uncertainty in the capital markets and tightening of credit markets, similar to that experienced in recent years, could make accessing
new capital more challenging and more expensive for our counterparties. Interest rate fluctuations, financial market volatility or credit market disruptions could limit the ability of our tenants,
operators and managers to obtain credit to finance their businesses on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us. In addition, any difficulty in
accessing capital or other sources of funds experienced by our other counterparties, such as letters of credit issuers, insurance carriers, banking institutions, title companies and escrow agents,
could prevent such counterparties from remaining viable entities or satisfying their obligations to us, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 


 The amount and scope of insurance coverage provided by our policies and policies maintained by our tenants, operators and managers may not adequately insure against losses.  

        We maintain or require in our existing lease, management and other agreements that our tenants, operators and managers maintain
adequate insurance coverage on our properties and their operations. Although we continually review the scope and level of insurance maintained by us and our tenants, operators and managers and believe
the coverage provided to be customary for similarly situated companies in our industry, we cannot provide any assurance that we or our tenants, operators and managers will continue to be able to
maintain adequate levels of insurance. We also cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to require the same levels of insurance coverage under our lease, management and other agreements,
that such insurance will be available at a reasonable cost in the future or that the insurance coverage provided will fully cover all losses on our properties upon the occurrence of a catastrophic
event, nor can we make any guaranty as to the future financial viability of the insurers. 

        Should
an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could incur substantial liability or lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well
as the anticipated future
revenues from the property. In such an event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot provide any assurance that
material uninsured losses, or losses in excess of insurance proceeds, will not occur in the future. 

38




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        As
part of our MOB development business, we provide engineering, construction and architectural services, and any design, construction or systems failures related to the properties we
develop may result in substantial injury or damage to clients or third parties. Injury or damage claims may arise in the ordinary course and may be asserted with respect to ongoing or completed
projects. Although we maintain liability insurance, if any claim results in a loss, we cannot provide any assurance that our insurance coverage would be adequate to cover the loss in full. If we
sustain losses in excess of our insurance coverage, we may be required to make a payment for the difference and could lose our investment in, or experience reduced profits and cash flows from, the
affected MOB, which could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 


 Significant legal actions could subject us or our tenants, operators and managers to increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities, which could materially
adversely affect our or their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.  

        From time to time, we may be subject to claims brought against us in lawsuits and other legal proceedings arising out of our alleged
actions or the alleged actions of our tenants, operators and managers for which such tenants, operators and managers may have agreed to indemnify, defend and hold us harmless. An unfavorable
resolution of any such pending or future litigation could materially adversely affect our or their liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 


        In
some of these cases, we and our tenants, operators and managers may be subject to professional liability claims brought by plaintiffs' attorneys seeking significant punitive damages
and attorneys' fees. Due to the historically high frequency and severity of professional liability claims against healthcare and seniors housing providers, the availability of professional liability
insurance has been restricted and the premiums on such insurance coverage remain very high. As a result, our insurance coverage and the insurance coverage of our tenants, operators and managers might
not cover all claims against us or them and might not be available to us or them at a reasonable cost. If we or our tenants, operators and managers are unable to maintain adequate insurance coverage
or are required to pay punitive damages, we or they may be exposed to substantial liabilities. 


        In
an effort to reduce and manage their costs and for various other reasons, many companies in the healthcare industry, including some of our tenants, operators and managers, are
pursuing different organizational and corporate structures coupled with self-insurance trusts or programs (commonly referred to as "captives") that may provide them with less insurance
coverage. Those companies that insure any part of their general and professional liability risks through their own captive limited purpose entities generally estimate the future cost of general and
professional liability through actuarial studies that rely primarily on historical data. However, due to the rise in the number and severity of professional claims against healthcare providers, these
actuarial studies may underestimate the future cost of claims, and reserves for future claims may not be adequate to cover the actual cost of those claims. As a result, the tenants, operators and
managers of our properties who self-insure could incur large funded and unfunded professional liability expense, which could materially adversely affect their liquidity, financial
condition and results of operations and, in turn, their ability to satisfy their obligations to us or, in the case of our senior living operations, our results of operations and, in either case, have
a Material Adverse Effect on us. Likewise, if we decide to implement a captive, any large funded and unfunded professional liability expenses that we incur could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 


 We may not be able to maintain or expand our relationships with our existing and future hospital and health system clients.  

        The success of our MOB business depends, to a large extent, on our past, current and future relationships with hospital and health
system clients. We invest a significant amount of time to develop 

39




 


<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

these
relationships, and our relationships have helped us to secure acquisition and development opportunities, as well as other advisory, property management and hospital project management projects,
with both new and existing clients. If our relationships with hospital or health system clients deteriorate, or if a conflict of interest or non-compete arrangement prevents us from
expanding these relationships, our ability to secure new acquisition and development opportunities or other advisory, property management and hospital project management projects could be adversely
impacted and our professional reputation within the industry could be damaged. 

 Our MOB development projects, including development projects undertaken on a fee-for-service basis or through our joint ventures, may not yield
anticipated returns.  

        A key component of our MOB long-term growth strategy is exploring development opportunities and, when appropriate, making
investments in those projects. In deciding whether to make an investment in a particular MOB development, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property. These
assumptions are subject to risks normally associated with these projects, including, among others, that:



•We may be unable to obtain financing for development projects on favorable terms or at all;  
•We may not complete development projects on schedule or within budgeted amounts;  
•We may encounter delays in obtaining or fail to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy, environmental
and other governmental permits and authorizations, or underestimate the costs necessary to develop the property to market standards; 
•Development or construction delays may provide tenants the right to terminate preconstruction leases or cause us to incur
additional costs; 
•Volatility in the price of construction materials or labor may increase our development costs;  
•Hospitals or health systems may maintain significant decision-making authority with respect to the development schedule;  
•Our builders may fail to perform or satisfy the expectations of our clients or prospective clients;  
•We may incorrectly forecast risks associated with development in new geographic regions;  
•Tenants may not lease space at the quantity or rental rate levels projected;  
•Demand for our development project may decrease prior to completion, including due to competition from other developments;
and 
•Lease rates and rents at newly developed properties may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control, including market
and economic conditions. 


        Moreover,
in MOB development projects undertaken on a fee-for-service basis, we generally construct properties for clients in exchange for a fixed fee, which
creates risks such as the inability to pass on increased labor and construction material costs to our clients, development and construction delays that could give our counterparties the right to
receive penalties from us, and bankruptcy or default by our contractors. We attempt to mitigate these risks by establishing certain limits on our obligations, shifting some of the risk to the general
contractor or seeking other legal protections, but we cannot provide any assurance that our mitigation efforts will be effective. 

        If
any of the risks described above occur, our MOB development projects, including development projects undertaken on a fee-for-service basis or through our joint
ventures, may not yield anticipated returns, which could materially adversely affect our MOB operations and have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

40




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

 Economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas to which a greater percentage of our NOI is attributed could adversely affect our financial results.  

        For the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 42.1% of our NOI was derived from properties located in California (12.5%),
Illinois (7.1%), Texas (6.1%), Massachusetts (5.8%), New York (5.7%), and Florida (4.9%). As a result, we are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting these regions, including
downturns in the local economies or changes in local real estate conditions, increased competition or decreased demand, and changes in state-specific legislation, which could adversely affect our
business and results of operations. 

 Our operators may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute.  

        Our operators who engage in business with the federal government may be sued under a federal whistleblower statute designed to combat
fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry. See "Governmental Regulation—Healthcare Regulation" included in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These
lawsuits can involve significant monetary damages and award bounties to private plaintiffs who successfully bring these suits. If any of these lawsuits were to be brought against our operators, such
suits combined with increased operating costs and substantial uninsured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on the operators' liquidity, financial condition and results of operation and
on their ability to make rental payments to us, which, in turn, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

 If any of our properties are found to be contaminated, or if we become involved in any environmental disputes, we could incur substantial liabilities and costs.  

        Under federal and state environmental laws and regulations, a current or former owner of real property may be liable for costs related
to the investigation, removal and remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum that are released from or are present at or under, or that are disposed of in connection with such property.
Owners of real property may also face other environmental liabilities, including government fines and penalties imposed by regulatory authorities and damages for injuries to persons, property or
natural resources. Environmental laws and regulations often impose liability without regard to whether the owner was aware of, or was responsible for, the presence, release or disposal of hazardous or
toxic substances or petroleum. In certain
circumstances, environmental liability may result from the activities of a current or former operator of the property. Although we are generally indemnified by the current operators of our properties
for contamination caused by them, these indemnities may not adequately cover all environmental costs. See "Governmental Regulation—Environmental Regulation" included in Item 1 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

 Our success depends, in part, on our ability to retain key personnel, and the loss of any one of them could adversely impact our business.  

        The success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees, and
our ability to retain and motivate these individuals could significantly impact our future performance. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will
retain our key officers and employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals in the future. Losing any one or more of these persons could have a Material
Adverse Effect on us. 

 Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.  

        Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management on internal control over financial
reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of 

41




 


<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

such
control. Changes to our business will necessitate ongoing changes to our internal control systems and processes. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements
because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only
reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement
required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely harmed and we
could fail to meet our reporting obligations. 

 If the liabilities we have assumed in connection with acquisitions are greater than expected, or if there are unknown liabilities, our business could be materially and
adversely affected.  

        We may have certain liabilities in connection with our acquisitions, including, in some cases, contingent liabilities. As we integrate
these acquisitions, we may learn additional information about the sellers, the properties, their operations and/or their liabilities that adversely affects us, such
as:



•Liabilities relating to the clean-up or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions;  
•Unasserted claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the sellers;  
•Liabilities, claims and litigation, including indemnification obligations, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course
of business, relating to periods prior to or following our acquisition; 
•Claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the sellers; and  
•Liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. 


As
a result, we cannot provide any assurance that our past acquisitions will be successful or will not, in fact, harm our business. Among other things, if the liabilities we have assumed are greater
than expected, or if there are obligations relating to the acquired properties or businesses of which we were not aware at the time we completed the acquisition, our business and results of operations
could be materially adversely affected. 

 Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure  

 We may become more leveraged.  

        As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $6.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness (including capital lease
obligations). The instruments governing our existing indebtedness permit us to incur substantial additional debt, including secured debt, and we may elect to meet our capital and liquidity needs
through additional borrowings. A high level of indebtedness would require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, thereby reducing the
funds available to implement our business strategy and make distributions to stockholders. A high level of indebtedness could also have the following consequences:



•Potential limits on our ability to adjust rapidly to changing market conditions and vulnerability in the event of a
downturn in general economic conditions or in the real estate or healthcare industries; 
•Potential impairment of our ability to obtain additional financing for our business strategy; and  
•Potential downgrade in the rating of our debt securities by one or more rating agencies, which could have the effect of,
among other things, limiting our access to capital and increasing our cost of borrowing. 

42




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        In
addition, from time to time, we mortgage our properties to secure payment of indebtedness. If we are unable to meet our mortgage payments, then the encumbered properties could be
foreclosed upon or transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of income and asset value. 

 We are exposed to increases in interest rates, which could reduce our profitability and adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell assets or engage in
acquisition and investment activity, and our decision to hedge against interest rate risk might not be effective.  

        We receive a significant portion of our revenues by leasing our assets under long-term triple-net leases in
which the rental rate is generally fixed with annual rent escalations, subject to certain limitations. Certain of our debt obligations are floating rate obligations with interest rate and related
payments that vary with the movement of LIBOR, Bankers' Acceptance or other indexes. The generally fixed rate nature of our revenues and the variable rate nature of certain of our obligations create
interest rate risk. Although our operating assets provide a partial hedge against interest rate fluctuations, if interest rates rise, our interest costs for our existing floating rate debt and any new
debt we incur would also increase. This increased cost could reduce our profitability, make our lease and other revenues insufficient to meet our obligations, or increase the cost of financing our
acquisition and investment activity. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt upon maturity or cause us to pay higher rates upon refinancing. An increase in
interest rates may also decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or
other conditions. 

        We
may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility with hedging arrangements that involve risk, including the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations
under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we may earn from hedging transactions may be limited
by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and that these arrangements may result in higher interest rates than would otherwise be the case. Moreover, no amount of hedging activity can completely
insulate us from the risks associated with changes in interest rates. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk, if we choose to engage in such activities, could adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition. 

 Limitations on our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future
investments necessary to implement our business strategy.  

        We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to raise the necessary capital to meet our debt service obligations, make
distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our business strategy, and the failure to do so could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. In recent years, the
global capital and credit markets experienced a period of extraordinary turmoil and upheaval, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of
various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government. The disruption in the credit markets, the repricing of credit risk and the deterioration of
the financial and real estate markets created difficult conditions for REITs and other companies to access capital or other sources of funds. Although access to capital and other sources of funding
have improved, we cannot provide any assurance that conditions will not deteriorate or that our access to capital and other sources of funding will not become constrained, which could adversely affect
our results of operation and financial condition. In addition, the federal government's failure to increase the amount of debt that it is statutorily permitted to incur as needed to meet its future
financial commitments or a downgrade in the debt rating on U.S. government securities could lead to a weakened U.S. dollar, rising interest rates and constrained access to capital, which could
materially adversely affect the U.S. and global economies, increase our costs of borrowing and have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

43




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        To
address constraints on our access to capital, we could, among other things, (i) obtain commitments from the banks in our lending group or from new banks to fund increased
amounts under the terms of our unsecured revolving credit facility or our unsecured term loan facilities, (ii) access the public capital markets, (iii) obtain secured loans from
government-sponsored entities, pension funds or similar sources, (iv) decrease or eliminate our distributions to our stockholders or pay taxable stock dividends, or (v) delay or cease
our acquisition and investment activity. As with other public companies, our access to debt and equity capital depends, in part, on the trading prices of our senior notes and common stock, which, in
turn, depend upon market conditions that change from time to time, such as the market's perception of our financial condition, our growth potential and our current and future earnings and cash
distributions. Our failure to meet the market's expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions or a significant downgrade in the ratings assigned to our long-term debt
could impact our ability to access capital or increase our borrowing costs. If we cannot access capital at an acceptable cost or at all, we may be required to liquidate one or more investments in
properties at times that may not permit us to realize the maximum return on those investments, which could also result in adverse tax consequences to us. Restrictions on our uses of, and our right to
transfer, properties under certain healthcare regulations, ground leases, mortgages and other agreements to which our properties may be subject could adversely impact our ability to timely liquidate
those investments and impair their value. 

        If
the financial institutions that are parties to our unsecured revolving credit facility become capital constrained, tighten their lending standards or become insolvent or if they
experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests from other borrowers within a short period of time, they may be unable or unwilling to honor their funding commitments to us, which would adversely
affect our ability to draw on our unsecured revolving credit facility and, over time, could negatively impact our ability to consummate acquisitions, repay indebtedness as it matures, fund capital
expenditures or make distributions to our stockholders. Adverse conditions in the credit markets could also adversely affect the availability and terms of future borrowings, renewals or refinancings. 

 Covenants in the instruments governing our existing indebtedness limit our operational flexibility, and a covenant breach could materially adversely affect our operations.  


        The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other
covenants, such as maintaining debt service coverage, leverage ratios and minimum net worth requirements. Our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject
to our compliance with these covenants, which limit our operational flexibility. Breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the applicable debt instruments and could trigger defaults
under any other indebtedness that is cross-defaulted against such instruments, even if we satisfy our payment obligations. Financial and other covenants that limit our operational flexibility, as well
as defaults resulting from our breach of any of these covenants, could have a Material Adverse Effect on us. 

 Risks Arising from Our Status as a REIT  

 Loss of our status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock.  

        If we lose our status as a REIT (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired),
we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to satisfy our obligations, to implement our business strategy and to make distributions to our stockholders
for each of the years involved because:



•We would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject
to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; 

44




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents



•We could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and increased state and local taxes; and  
•Unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we could not elect to be subject to tax as a REIT for four
taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. 


        In
addition, in such event we would no longer be required to pay dividends to maintain REIT status, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. 

        Qualification
as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The
determination of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control, as well as new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions, may adversely affect our
investors or our ability to remain qualified as a REIT for tax purposes. Although we believe that we qualify as a REIT, we cannot provide any assurance that we will continue to qualify as a REIT for
tax purposes. 

 The 90% distribution requirement will decrease our liquidity and may limit our ability to engage in otherwise beneficial transactions.  

        To comply with the 90% distribution requirement applicable to REITs and to avoid the nondeductible excise tax, we must make
distributions to our stockholders. See "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Requirements for Qualification as a REIT—Annual Distribution Requirements" included in
Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, such distributions may limit our ability to rely upon rental payments from our properties or subsequently acquired
properties to finance investments, acquisitions or new developments. 

        Although
we do not anticipate any inability to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement, from time to time, we may not have sufficient cash or other liquid assets to do so. For example,
timing differences between the actual receipt of income and actual payment of deductible expenses, on the one hand, and the inclusion of that income and deduction of those expenses in arriving at our
taxable income, on the other hand, or non-deductible expenses such as principal amortization or repayments or capital expenditures in excess of non-cash deductions may cause us
to fail to have sufficient cash or liquid assets to enable us to satisfy the 90% distribution requirement. 

        In
the event that timing differences occur or we decide to retain cash or to distribute such greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, we may, if possible,
borrow funds, issue additional equity securities, pay taxable stock dividends, distribute other property or securities or engage in a transaction intended to enable us to meet the REIT distribution
requirements. Any of these actions may require us to raise additional capital to meet our obligations; however, see "—Risks Arising from Our Capital Structure—Limitations on
our ability to access capital could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our debt payments, make distributions to our stockholders or make future investments necessary to implement our
business strategy." The terms of the instruments governing our existing indebtedness restrict our ability to engage in some of these transactions. 

 To preserve our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation contains ownership limits with respect to our capital stock that may delay, defer or prevent a
change of control of our company.  

        To assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT, our certificate of incorporation provides that if a person acquires beneficial
ownership of more than 9.9% of our outstanding preferred stock or more than 9.0% of our common stock, the shares that are beneficially owned in excess of the applicable limit are considered to be
"excess shares" and are automatically deemed transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable institution or other qualifying organization selected by our Board of Directors. The trust is
entitled to all dividends with respect to the excess shares and the trustee may exercise all voting power over the excess shares. In addition, we have the right to purchase the excess 

45




 

<A
HREF="#bg73801a_main_toc">Table of Contents

shares
for a price equal to the lesser of (i) the price per share in the transaction that created the excess shares or (ii) the market price on the day we purchase the shares, but if we
do not purchase the excess shares, the trustee of the trust is required to transfer the shares at the direction of our Board of Directors. These ownership limits could delay, defer or prevent a
transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 

 If we decide to pay taxable stock dividends to meet the REIT distribution requirements, your tax liability may be greater than the amount of cash you receive.  


        Under Revenue Procedure 2010-12, the IRS has stated that it will treat stock dividends as distributions for purposes of
satisfying the REIT distribution requirements for calendar years 2008 through 2012 if each stockholder can elect to receive the distribution in cash, even if the aggregate cash amount paid to all
stockholders is limited, provided certain requirements are met. Accordingly, if we decide to pay a stock dividend in accordance with Revenue Procedure 2010-12, your tax liability with
respect to such dividend may be significantly greater than the amount of cash you receive. 

46






<A
NAME="page_dk73801_1_47"> 



































 





Table of Contents 

<A
NAME="dk73801_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B