Item 1A.    Risk Factors
   We face significant competition
that may reduce our market share and lower our profits    We
face significant competition in our industry. The rapid development of new technologies, services and products has eliminated the traditional lines between local, long distance, wireless, cable and Internet communication services and brought new
competitors to our markets, including other telephone companies, cable companies, wireless service providers, satellite providers, electric utilities, and providers of VoIP services. While these changes have enabled us to offer new types of
services, they have also allowed other service providers to broaden the scope of their own competitive offerings. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on how successfully we anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, including
new services that may be introduced by our competitors, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends and pricing pressures. Because many of our competitors are subject to less regulation and have lower cost structures than us, due in part to
the absence of a unionized work force and fewer retirees, they may be able to offer services at lower prices. The resulting pressure on the price of services provided by us may result in reduced revenues and reduction of profits.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px">  Unless we effectively keep pace with technological developments in the
telecommunications industry we may experience a decline in demand for our services    <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">Our industry is experiencing rapid change as new technologies are developed that offer consumers an array of choices for their communications needs. In order to grow and remain competitive, we will need to adapt to
future changes in technology, to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings to address our customers’ changing demands. If we are unable to meet future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable
cost, we could lose customers to our competitors. In general, the development of new services in our industry requires us to anticipate and respond to the varied and continually changing demands of our customers. We may not be able to accurately
predict technological trends or the success of new services in the market. In addition, there could be legal or regulatory restraints to our introduction of new services. If these services fail to gain acceptance in the marketplace, or if costs
associated with implementation and completion of the introduction of these services materially increase, our ability to retain and attract customers could be adversely affected.  <FONT
SIZE="1">  Changes in the regulatory regime under which we operate could adversely affect our business prospects or results of
operations    Our operations are subject to regulation by
the FCC and other federal, state and local agencies. It is impossible to predict with any certainty the outcome of pending federal and state regulatory proceedings relating to our provision of retail or wholesale services, or the reviews by federal
or state courts of regulatory rulings. Unless we are able to obtain relief, existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and introduce new products and services. In addition, the adoption of new laws or regulations or
changes to the existing regulatory framework could adversely affect our business plans. For example, the development of new technologies, such as Internet Protocol-based services, including VoIP and super high-speed broadband and video, could be
subject to conflicting regulation between the FCC and various state and local authorities, which could significantly increase the cost of implementing and introducing new services based on this technology.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"> 





 
Item 1B