Item 1A.    Risk Factors
   We face
significant competition that may reduce our market share and lower our profits.    <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">We face significant competition in our industry. The rapid development of new technologies, services and products has eliminated the traditional lines between local, long distance, wireless, cable and Internet
communication services and brought new competitors to our markets, including other telephone companies, cable companies, wireless service providers, satellite providers, electric utilities, and providers of VoIP services. While these changes have
enabled us to offer new types of services, they have also allowed other service providers to broaden the scope of their own competitive offerings. Our ability to compete effectively will depend on how successfully we anticipate and respond to
various competitive factors, including new services that may be introduced by our competitors, changes in consumer preferences, demographic trends and pricing pressures. We are subject to more regulation and have higher cost structures than many of
our competitors, due in part to the presence of a unionized workforce and a large retiree population in our wireline business. Accordingly, our competitors may be able to offer services at lower prices. The resulting pressure on the price of
services we provide may result in reduced revenues and profits. In addition, while the workforce of our wireless business is almost entirely non-union, we cannot predict what level of success unions may have in organizing this workforce or the
potentially negative impact of such labor organizing on our costs.    <FONT FACE="Times New Roman"
SIZE="2">If we are not able to take advantage of technological developments in the telecommunications industry on a timely basis, we may experience a decline in a demand for our services or may be unable to implement our business strategy. 
   Our industry is experiencing rapid change as new technologies
are developed that offer consumers an array of choices for their communications needs. In order to grow and remain competitive, we will need to adapt to future changes in technology, to enhance our existing offerings and introduce new offerings to
address our customers’ changing demands. If we are unable to meet future advances in competing technologies on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost, we could lose customers to our competitors. In general, the development of new services in
our industry requires us to anticipate and respond to the varied and continually changing demands of our customers. We may not be able to accurately predict technological trends or the success of new services in the market. In addition, there could
be legal or regulatory restraints to our introduction of new services. If these services fail to gain acceptance in the marketplace, or if costs associated with implementation and completion of the introduction of these services materially increase,
our ability to retain and attract customers could be adversely affected.    <FONT
FACE="Times New Roman" SIZE="2">While we believe our primary wireless technology platform, CDMA, and its upgrades offer many advantages, many competing wireless service providers have chosen GSM or other technologies as the technology platforms for
their wireless networks. In addition, in November 2007, we announced that we intend to develop and deploy our “fourth generation” mobile broadband network using “Long Term Evolution” (LTE). This new technology is designed to
enable mobile data networks with higher speeds and improved efficiencies. However, there are risks that current or future versions of the wireless technologies and evolutionary path that we have selected may not be demanded by existing and
prospective customers or provide the advantages that we expect. In addition, there are risks that other wireless carriers on whom our customers roam may change their technology to other technologies that are incompatible with ours. As a result, the
ability of our and such other carriers’ customers to roam on our respective wireless networks could be adversely affected. If these risks materialize, our ability to provide national wireless service to our customers, to retain and attract
customers, and to maintain and grow our customer revenues could be materially adversely affected.    <P STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">We depend on key suppliers and vendors to provide equipment that we need to operate our business.   
We also depend upon various key suppliers and vendors to provide us with the equipment that we need to operate our business. If these suppliers or
vendors fail to provide equipment or service to us on a timely basis, it could have an adverse impact on our ability to implement our business strategy and, in addition, we might be unable to satisfy the requirements contained in our FCC licenses
regarding the construction of our wireless network. These suppliers and vendors may be subject to litigation with respect to technology that we depend on for our service offerings.  <FONT
SIZE="1">  Changes in the regulatory framework under which we operate could adversely affect our business prospects or results of
operations.    Our operations are subject to regulation by
the FCC and other federal, state and local agencies. It is impossible to predict with any certainty the outcome of pending federal and state regulatory proceedings relating to our provision of retail or wholesale services, or the reviews by federal
or state courts of regulatory rulings. Unless we are able to obtain appropriate relief, existing laws and regulations may inhibit our ability to expand our business and introduce new products and services. In addition, the adoption of new laws or
regulations or changes to the existing regulatory framework could adversely affect our business plans. For example, the development of new technologies, such as Internet Protocol-based services, including VoIP and super high-speed broadband and
video, could be subject to conflicting regulation between the FCC and various state and local authorities, which could significantly increase the cost of implementing and introducing new services based on this technology. In addition, the rapid
growth of the wireless industry has led to an increase in efforts by some state legislatures and state public utility commissions to regulate the industry in ways that may impose additional costs on Verizon Wireless. Moreover, many states have also
imposed significant taxes on providers in the wireless industry.   
 13 




Table of Contents

 Natural or man-made disasters may disrupt our operations.  <P
STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:-6px">  The occurrence of natural or man-made
disasters may disrupt our operations. While we maintain insurance coverage for some of these events, the potential liabilities associated with these events could exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. Our inability
to operate our wireline or wireless networks as a result of such events, even for a limited period of time, may result in significant expenses and/or loss of market share to other communications providers, which could have a material adverse effect
on our results of operations and financial condition.   We are subject to a
significant amount of litigation, which could require us to pay significant damages or settlements.    <P STYLE="margin-top:0px;margin-bottom:0px"
ALIGN="justify">Our business faces a substantial amount of litigation, including patent infringement lawsuits, antitrust class actions, wage and hour class actions, personal injury claims and lawsuits relating
to our advertising, sales, billing and collection practices. In addition, our wireless business also faces personal injury and consumer class action lawsuits relating to alleged health effects of wireless phones or radio frequency transmitters, and
class action lawsuits that challenge marketing practices and disclosures relating to alleged adverse health effects of handheld wireless phones. We may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits. In addition, we may be required to pay
significant awards or settlements.   





 
Item 1B