Item 1A, Risk Factors — Effects of Climate
    Change, for more information on the potential significance of
    climate change legislation.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    The Company files all required reports with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The public may read and
    copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at the
    SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street,
    N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on
    the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.


 


    The Company is an electronic filer and the SEC maintains a
    website that contains reports, proxy and information statements
    and other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC. The address of the SEC electronic filing website
    is
    http://www.sec.gov.
    The Company also makes available, free of charge on its website,
    its annual report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after such material is electronically filed with or
    furnished to the SEC. The website address for Waters Corporation
    is
    http://www.waters.com
    and SEC filings can be found under the caption
    “Investors”.


 



    Forward-Looking
    Statements


 


    Certain of the statements in this
    Form 10-K
    and the documents incorporated herein may contain
    forward-looking statements within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended (the “Exchange Act”), with respect to future
    results and events, including statements regarding, among other
    items, the impact of the Company’s new products and the
    Company’s ability to invest in new product development and
    existing product enhancements; the Company’s growth
    strategies, including its intention to make acquisitions, make
    stock repurchases and introduce new products; anticipated trends
    in the Company’s business; the Company’s ability to
    continue to control costs and maintain quality; current economic
    conditions; the impact of the Company’s various litigation
    matters, including the Dearborn action and ongoing patent
    litigation; future issuances of
    10-year
    senior unsecured notes by the Company; the Company’s
    product performance; the Company’s ability to ensure
    product consistency and react to new customer requirements; the
    Company’s market share position and statements related to
    market position; statements related to the Company’s
    pursuant of outsourcing opportunities; the Company’s
    ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees;
    statements regarding the Company’s facilities; statements
    regarding the Company’s financial flexibility; use of the
    Company’s debt proceeds; the Company’s expected cash
    flow and borrowing capacity; the Company’s contributions to
    defined benefit plans; and the Company’s capital spending
    and ability to fund other facility expansions to accommodate
    future sales growth. Many of these statements appear, in
    particular, under the heading “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this
    Form 10-K.
    You can identify these forward-looking statements by the use of
    the words “believes”, “anticipates”,
    “plans”, “expects”, “may”,
    “will”, “would”, “intends”,
    “appears”, “estimates”,
    “projects”, “should” and similar
    expressions, whether in the negative or affirmative. These
    statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, many
    of which are outside the control of the Company, including, and
    without limitation, the impact on demand among the
    Company’s various market sectors from current economic
    difficulties and recession; the impact of changes in accounting
    principles and practices or tax rates, including the effect of
    recently restructuring certain legal entities; shifts in taxable
    income in jurisdictions with different effective tax rates; the
    ability to access capital in volatile market conditions; the
    ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses;
    fluctuations in capital expenditures by the Company’s
    customers, in particular, large pharmaceutical companies;
    introduction of competing products by other companies and loss
    of market share; pressures on prices from competitors
    and/or
    customers; regulatory obstacles to new product introductions;
    lack of acceptance of new products; other changes in the demands
    of the Company’s healthcare and pharmaceutical company
    customers; changes in distribution of the Company’s
    products; the Company’s ability to obtain alternative
    sources for components and modules; underperformance relative to
    expected future operating results; negative industry trends;
    risks associated with lawsuits and other legal actions,
    particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and
    other intellectual property





    
    10



Table of Contents





    rights; and foreign exchange rate fluctuations potentially
    adversely affecting translation of the Company’s future
    non-U.S. operating
    results, as well as additional risk factors set forth below in
    Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this
    Form 10-K.
    Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans,
    intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking
    statements, whether because of these factors or for other
    reasons. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the
    date of this report and are expressly qualified in their
    entirety by the cautionary statements included in this report.
    Except as required by law, the Company does not assume any
    obligation to update any forward-looking statements.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 


    The Company is subject to risks common to companies in the
    analytical instrument industry, including, but not limited to
    the following risks.


 



    Global
    Economic Conditions





    The global economic conditions had an unfavorable impact on
    demand for the Company’s products in 2009 and in late 2008.
    These conditions resulted in a decline in demand for the
    Company’s products and services and may result in a decline
    in demand for the Company’s products and services in the
    near future. There can be no assurance that there will not be a
    further deterioration in financial markets and confidence in
    major economies. Any further deterioration or prolonged
    disruption in the financial markets or market conditions
    generally may result in reduced demand for the Company’s
    products and services. The Company’s global business may
    also be adversely affected by decreases in the general level of
    economic activity as a result of the economic and financial
    market situations.


 



    Financial
    Market Conditions





    Financial markets in the U.S., Europe and Asia have experienced
    extreme disruption over the past few years, including, among
    other things, a sharp increase in the cost of new capital,
    severely diminished capital availability and severely reduced
    liquidity in money markets. Financial and banking institutions
    have also experienced disruptions, resulting in large asset
    write-downs, higher costs of capital, rating downgrades and
    reduced desire to lend money. While currently these conditions
    have not impacted the Company’s ability to access its
    existing cash or borrow on its existing revolving credit
    facility, there can be no assurance that there will not be
    further deterioration or prolonged disruption in financial
    markets or financial institutions. Any further deterioration or
    prolonged disruption in financial markets or financial
    institutions in which the Company participates may impair the
    Company’s ability to access its existing cash and revolving
    credit facility and impair its ability to access sources of new
    capital. The Company’s cost of any new capital raised and
    interest expense would increase if this were to occur.


 



    Customer
    Demand





    The demand for the Company’s products is dependent upon the
    size of the markets for its LC, MS, thermal analysis, rheometry
    and calorimetry products; the timing and level of capital
    expenditures of the Company’s customers; changes in
    government regulations, particularly effecting drug, food and
    drinking water testing; funding available to academic and
    government institutions; general economic conditions and the
    rate of economic growth in the Company’s major markets; and
    competitive considerations. The Company typically experiences an
    increase in sales in its fourth quarter, as a result of
    purchasing habits for capital goods by customers that tend to
    exhaust their spending budgets by calendar year end. There can
    be no assurances that the Company’s results of operations
    or financial condition will not be adversely impacted by a
    change in any of the factors listed above or the continuation of
    weakness in global economic conditions.


 


    Additionally, the analytical instrument market may, from time to
    time, experience low sales growth. Approximately 51% and 50% of
    the Company’s net sales in 2009 and 2008, respectively,
    were to the worldwide pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    industries, which may be periodically subject to unfavorable
    market conditions and consolidations. Unfavorable industry
    conditions could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations or financial condition.




    
    11



Table of Contents






    Competition
    and the Analytical Instrument Market





    The analytical instrument market and, in particular, the portion
    related to the Company’s HPLC, UPLC, MS,
    LC-MS,
    thermal analysis, rheometry and calorimetry product lines, is
    highly competitive and subject to rapid changes in technology.
    The Company encounters competition from several international
    instrument manufacturers and other companies in both domestic
    and foreign markets. Some competitors have instrument businesses
    that are generally more diversified than the Company’s
    business, but are typically less focused on the Company’s
    chosen markets. There can be no assurances that the
    Company’s competitors will not introduce more effective and
    less costly products than those of the Company or that the
    Company will be able to increase its sales and profitability
    from new product introductions. There can be no assurances that
    the Company’s sales and marketing forces will compete
    successfully against its competitors in the future.


 



    Levels of
    Debt and Debt Service Requirements





    The Company had approximately $632 million in debt and
    $630 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments as of December 31, 2009. As of
    December 31, 2009, the Company also had the ability to
    borrow an additional $479 million from its existing credit
    facilities. Most of the Company’s debt is in the
    U.S. There is a substantial cash requirement in the
    U.S. to fund operations and capital expenditures, service
    debt interest obligations, finance potential acquisitions and
    continue authorized stock repurchase programs. A majority of the
    Company’s cash is maintained and generated from foreign
    operations. The Company’s financial condition and results
    of operations could be adversely impacted if the Company is
    unable to maintain a sufficient level of cash flow in the
    U.S. to address these requirements through cash from
    U.S. operations, efficient and timely repatriation of cash
    from overseas, the Company’s ability to access its existing
    cash and revolving credit facility and other sources obtained at
    an acceptable cost.


 



    Debt
    Covenants





    The Company’s debt may become subject to restrictive
    covenants that limit the Company’s ability to engage in
    certain activities that could otherwise benefit the Company.
    These debt covenants include restrictions on the Company’s
    ability to enter into certain contracts or agreements that may
    limit the Company’s ability to make dividend or other
    payments; secure other indebtedness; enter into transactions
    with affiliates and consolidate, merge or transfer all or
    substantially all of the Company’s assets. The Company is
    also required to meet specified financial ratios under the terms
    of the Company’s debt agreements. The Company’s
    ability to comply with these financial restrictions and
    covenants is dependent on the Company’s future performance,
    which is subject to, but not limited to, prevailing economic
    conditions and other factors, including factors that are beyond
    the Company’s control, such as foreign exchange rates,
    interest rates, changes in technology and changes in the level
    of competition.


 



    Risk of
    Disruption of Operations





    The Company manufactures LC instruments at facilities in
    Milford, Massachusetts and Singapore; chemistry separation
    columns at its facilities in Taunton, Massachusetts and Wexford,
    Ireland; MS products at its facilities in Manchester, England,
    Cheshire, England and Wexford, Ireland; thermal analysis
    products at its facility in New Castle, Delaware; rheometry
    products at its facilities in New Castle, Delaware and Crawley,
    England and other instruments and consumables at various other
    locations as a result of the Company’s recent acquisitions.
    Any prolonged disruption to the operations at any of these
    facilities, whether due to labor difficulties, destruction of or
    damage to any facility or other reasons, could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or
    financial condition.


 



    Sovereign
    Risk, Foreign Operations and Exchange Rates





    Approximately 69% and 70% of the Company’s net sales in
    2009 and 2008, respectively, were outside of the
    United States and were primarily denominated in foreign
    currencies. In addition, the Company has considerable
    manufacturing operations in Ireland, the United Kingdom and
    Singapore. As a result, a significant portion of the
    Company’s sales and operations are subject to certain
    risks, including adverse developments in the foreign political
    and economic environment; sudden movements in a country’s
    foreign exchange rates due to a change in a country’s
    sovereign risk profile or foreign exchange regulatory practices;
    tariffs and other trade barriers; difficulties in staffing and
    managing foreign operations; and potentially adverse tax
    consequences.




    
    12



Table of Contents





    Additionally, the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s
    net sales, cost of sales, operating expenses, interest, taxes
    and net income varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations.
    Significant increases or decreases in the value of the
    U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies could
    have a material adverse effect or benefit on the Company’s
    results of operations or financial condition.


 



    Reliance
    on Key Management





    The operation of the Company requires managerial and operational
    expertise. None of the key management employees have an
    employment contract with the Company and there can be no
    assurance that such individuals will remain with the Company.
    If, for any reason, such key personnel do not continue to be
    active in management, the Company’s results of operations
    or financial condition could be adversely affected.


 



    Protection
    of Intellectual Property





    The Company vigorously protects its intellectual property rights
    and seeks patent coverage on all developments that it regards as
    material and patentable. However, there can be no assurances
    that any patents held by the Company will not be challenged,
    invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted
    thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company.
    Conversely, there could be successful claims against the Company
    by third-party patent holders with respect to certain Company
    products that may infringe the intellectual property rights of
    such third parties. The Company’s patents, including those
    licensed from others, expire on various dates. If the Company is
    unable to protect its intellectual property rights, it could
    have an adverse and material effect on the Company’s
    results of operations or financial condition.


 



    Reliance
    on Suppliers





    Most of the raw materials, components and supplies purchased by
    the Company are available from a number of different suppliers;
    however, a number of items are purchased from limited or single
    sources of supply and disruption of these sources could have a
    temporary adverse effect on shipments and the financial results
    of the Company. The Company believes alternative sources could
    ordinarily be obtained to supply these materials, but a
    prolonged inability to obtain certain materials or components
    could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    condition or results of operations and could result in damage to
    its relationships with its customers and, accordingly, adversely
    affect the Company’s business.


 



    Use of
    Outside Manufacturers





    Certain components or modules of the Company’s LC and MS
    instruments are manufactured by long-standing outside
    contractors. Since 2006, the Company has transitioned the
    manufacturing of LC instrument systems and related components to
    a well-established contract manufacturing firm in Singapore.
    Disruptions of service by these outside contractors could have
    an adverse effect on the supply chain and the financial results
    of the Company. The Company believes that it could obtain
    alternative sources for these components or modules, but a
    prolonged inability to obtain these components or modules could
    have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition
    or results of operations.


 



    Risk in
    Unexpected Shifts in Taxable Income between Tax
    Jurisdictions





    The Company is subject to a range of income tax rates, from 0%
    to in excess of 35%, depending on specific tax jurisdictions
    around the world. The Company typically generates a substantial
    portion of its taxable income in the fourth quarter of each
    fiscal year. Shifts in actual taxable income from previous
    quarters’ projections due to factors, including, but not
    limited to, changes in volume and foreign currency translation
    rates, could have a notable favorable or unfavorable effect on
    the Company’s income tax expense and results of operations.


 



    Effects
    of Climate Change





    The Company’s manufacturing processes for certain of its
    products involve the use of chemical and other substances that
    are regulated under various international, federal, state and
    local laws governing the environment. In the event that any
    future climate change legislation would require that stricter
    standards be imposed by domestic or international environmental
    regulatory authorities with respect to the use
    and/or
    levels of possible emissions from such chemicals
    and/or other
    substances, the Company may be required to make certain changes
    and adaptations to





    
    13



Table of Contents





    its manufacturing processes. There can be no assurance that any
    such changes would not have a material effect on the financial
    statements of the Company.


 


    Another potential effect of climate change is an increase in the
    severity of global weather conditions. The Company manufactures
    a growing percentage of its HPLC, UPLC and MS products in both
    Singapore and Wexford, Ireland. Although the Company believes
    its has an adequate disaster recovery plan in place, severe
    weather conditions, including earthquakes, hurricanes
    and/or
    tsunami, could potentially cause significant damage to the
    Company’s manufacturing facilities in each of these
    countries. There can be no assurance that the effects of such
    damage and the resultant disruption of manufacturing operations
    would not have a materially adverse impact to the financial
    results of the Company.


 



    Regulatory
    Compliance





    The Company is subject to regulation by various federal, state
    and foreign governments and agencies in areas including, among
    others, health and safety, import/export and environmental. A
    portion of the Company’s operations are subject to
    regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration and
    similar foreign agencies. These regulations are complex and
    govern an array of product activities, including design,
    development, labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and
    distribution. Any failure by the Company to comply with
    applicable government regulations could result in product
    recalls, the imposition of fines, restrictions on the
    Company’s ability to conduct or expand its operations or
    the cessation of all or a portion of its operations.


 


    Some of the Company’s operations are subject to domestic
    and international laws and regulations with respect to the
    manufacture, handling, use or sale of toxic or hazardous
    substances. This requires the Company to devote substantial
    resources to maintain compliance with those applicable laws and
    regulations. If the Company fails to comply with such
    requirements in the manufacture or distribution of its products,
    it could face civil
    and/or
    criminal penalties and potentially be prohibited from
    distributing or selling such products until they are compliant.


 


    Some of the Company’s products are also subject to the
    rules of certain industrial standards bodies, such as the
    International Standards Organization. The Company must comply
    with these rules, as well as those of other agencies such as
    those of the United States Occupational Health and Safety
    Administration. Failure to comply with such rules could result
    in the loss of certification
    and/or the
    imposition of fines and penalties which could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s operations.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B