Item 1A:  Risk
    Factors


 



    Competition
    and the Analytical Instrument Market:





    The analytical instrument market and, in particular, the portion
    related to the Company’s HPLC, UPLC, MS,
    LC-MS,
    thermal analysis and rheometry product lines, is highly
    competitive, and the Company encounters competition from several
    international instrument manufacturers and other companies in
    both domestic and foreign markets. Some competitors’
    businesses are generally more diversified and less focused on
    the Company’s primary instrument markets. There can be no
    assurances that the Company’s competitors will not
    introduce more effective and less costly products than those of
    the Company, or that the Company will be able to increase its
    sales and profitability from new product introductions. There
    can be no assurances that the Company’s sales and marketing
    forces will compete successfully against its competitors in the
    future.


 


    Additionally, the analytical instrument market may, from time to
    time, experience low sales growth. Approximately 52% and 54% of
    the Company’s net sales in 2006 and 2005, respectively,
    were to the worldwide pharmaceutical and biotechnology
    industries, which may be periodically subject to unfavorable
    market conditions and consolidations. Unfavorable industry
    conditions could have a material adverse effect on the
    Company’s results of operations or financial condition.


 



    Risk of
    Disruption:





    The Company manufactures LC instruments at facilities in
    Milford, Massachusetts and Singapore, separation columns at its
    facilities in Taunton, Massachusetts and Wexford, Ireland, MS
    products at its facilities in Manchester, England, Cheshire,
    England and Wexford, Ireland, thermal analysis products at its
    facility in New Castle, Delaware and rheometry products at its
    facilities in New Castle, Delaware and Crawley, England. Any
    prolonged disruption to the operations at any of these
    facilities, whether due to labor difficulties, destruction of or
    damage to either facility or other reasons, could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations or financial condition.


 



    Foreign
    Operations and Exchange Rates:





    Approximately 68% and 66% of the Company’s 2006 and
    2005 net sales, respectively, were outside of the United
    States and were primarily denominated in foreign currencies. As
    a result, a significant portion of the Company’s sales and
    operations are subject to certain risks, including adverse
    developments in the foreign political and economic environment,
    tariffs and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and
    managing foreign operations and potentially adverse tax
    consequences.



    
    10



Table of Contents



 


    Additionally, the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s
    net sales varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations.
    Significant increases in the value of the U.S. dollar
    relative to certain foreign currencies could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or
    financial condition.


 



    Reliance
    on Key Management:





    The operation of the Company requires managerial and operational
    expertise. None of the key management employees has an
    employment contract with the Company, and there can be no
    assurance that such individuals will remain with the Company.
    If, for any reason, such key personnel do not continue to be
    active in management, the Company’s results of operations
    or financial condition could be adversely affected.


 



    Protection
    of Intellectual Property:





    The Company vigorously protects its intellectual property rights
    and seeks patent coverage on all developments that it regards as
    material and patentable. However, there can be no assurances
    that any patents held by the Company will not be challenged,
    invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted
    thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company.
    Conversely, there could be successful claims against the Company
    by third party patent holders with respect to certain Company
    products that may infringe the intellectual property rights of
    such third parties. The Company’s patents, including those
    licensed from others, expire on various dates. If the Company is
    unable to protect its intellectual property rights, it could
    have an adverse and material effect on the Company’s
    results of operations or financial condition.


 



    Reliance
    on Customer Demand:





    The demand for the Company’s products is dependent upon the
    size of the markets for its LC, MS, thermal analysis and
    rheometry products, the level of capital expenditures of the
    Company’s customers, the rate of economic growth in the
    Company’s major markets and competitive considerations.
    There can be no assurances that the Company’s results of
    operations or financial condition will not be adversely impacted
    by a change in any of the factors listed above.


 



    Reliance
    on Suppliers:





    Most of the raw materials, components and supplies purchased by
    the Company are available from a number of different suppliers;
    however, a number of items are purchased from limited or single
    sources of supply and disruption of these sources could have a
    temporary adverse effect on shipments and the financial results
    of the Company. The Company believes alternative sources could
    ordinarily be obtained to supply these materials, but a
    prolonged inability to obtain certain materials or components
    could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    condition or results of operations and could result in damage to
    its relationships with its customers and, accordingly, adversely
    affect the Company’s business.


 



    Reliance
    on Outside Manufacturers:





    Certain components or modules of the Company’s MS
    instruments are manufactured by long-standing outside
    contractors. In 2006, the Company transitioned the manufacturing
    of the Alliance HPLC instrument system to a company in
    Singapore. Disruptions of service by these outside contractors
    could have an adverse effect on the supply chain and the
    financial results of the Company. The Company believes that it
    could obtain alternative sources for these components or
    modules, but a prolonged inability to obtain these components or
    modules could have an adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or results of operations.


 



    Item 1B