Item 1A:  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Competition
    and the Analytical Instrument Market





    The analytical instrument market and, in particular, the portion
    related to the Company’s HPLC, UPLC, MS, LC-MS, thermal
    analysis, rheometry and calorimetry product lines, is highly
    competitive and subject to rapid changes in technology. The
    Company encounters competition from several international
    instrument manufacturers and other companies in both domestic
    and foreign markets. Some competitors have instrument businesses
    that are generally more diversified than the Company’s
    business but are typically less focused on the Company’s
    chosen markets. There can be no assurances that the
    Company’s competitors will not introduce more effective and
    less costly products than those of the Company or that the
    Company will be able to increase its sales and profitability
    from new product introductions. There can be no assurances that
    the Company’s sales and marketing forces will compete
    successfully against its competitors in the future.


 


    Additionally, the analytical instrument market may, from time to
    time, experience low sales growth. Approximately 52% of the
    Company’s net sales in both 2007 and 2006 were to the
    worldwide pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, which may
    be periodically subject to unfavorable market conditions and
    consolidations. Unfavorable industry conditions could have a
    material adverse effect on the Company’s results of
    operations or financial condition.


 



    Risk of
    Disruption





    The Company manufactures LC instruments at facilities in
    Milford, Massachusetts and Singapore; chemistry separation
    columns at its facilities in Taunton, Massachusetts and Wexford,
    Ireland; MS products at its facilities in Manchester, England,
    Cheshire, England and Wexford, Ireland; thermal analysis
    products at its facility in New Castle, Delaware; rheometry
    products at its facilities in New Castle, Delaware and Crawley,
    England and other instruments and consumables at various other
    locations as a result of the 2007 and 2006 acquisitions. Any
    prolonged disruption to the operations at any of these
    facilities, whether due to labor difficulties, destruction of or
    damage to any facility or other reasons, could have a material
    adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or
    financial condition.



    
    10



Table of Contents





    Foreign
    Operations and Exchange Rates





    Approximately 68% of the Company’s net sales in both 2007
    and 2006 were outside of the United States and were primarily
    denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, the Company has
    considerable manufacturing operations in Ireland and the United
    Kingdom. As a result, a significant portion of the
    Company’s sales and operations are subject to certain
    risks, including adverse developments in the foreign political
    and economic environment; tariffs and other trade barriers;
    difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and
    potentially adverse tax consequences.


 


    Additionally, the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s
    net sales and cost of sales varies with currency exchange rate
    fluctuations. Significant increases or decreases in the value of
    the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies
    could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
    results of operations or financial condition.


 



    Reliance
    on Key Management





    The operation of the Company requires managerial and operational
    expertise. None of the key management employees have an
    employment contract with the Company and there can be no
    assurance that such individuals will remain with the Company.
    If, for any reason, such key personnel do not continue to be
    active in management, the Company’s results of operations
    or financial condition could be adversely affected.


 



    Protection
    of Intellectual Property





    The Company vigorously protects its intellectual property rights
    and seeks patent coverage on all developments that it regards as
    material and patentable. However, there can be no assurances
    that any patents held by the Company will not be challenged,
    invalidated or circumvented or that the rights granted
    thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company.
    Conversely, there could be successful claims against the Company
    by third-party patent holders with respect to certain Company
    products that may infringe the intellectual property rights of
    such third parties. The Company’s patents, including those
    licensed from others, expire on various dates. If the Company is
    unable to protect its intellectual property rights, it could
    have an adverse and material effect on the Company’s
    results of operations or financial condition.


 



    Reliance
    on Customer Demand





    The demand for the Company’s products is dependent upon the
    size of the markets for its LC, MS, thermal analysis and
    rheometry products, the timing and level of capital expenditures
    of the Company’s customers, changes in government
    regulations, funding available to academic and government
    institutions, general economic conditions and the rate of
    economic growth in the Company’s major markets and
    competitive considerations. There can be no assurances that the
    Company’s results of operations or financial condition will
    not be adversely impacted by a change in any of the factors
    listed above.


 



    Reliance
    on Suppliers





    Most of the raw materials, components and supplies purchased by
    the Company are available from a number of different suppliers;
    however, a number of items are purchased from limited or single
    sources of supply and disruption of these sources could have a
    temporary adverse effect on shipments and the financial results
    of the Company. The Company believes alternative sources could
    ordinarily be obtained to supply these materials, but a
    prolonged inability to obtain certain materials or components
    could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial
    condition or results of operations and could result in damage to
    its relationships with its customers and, accordingly, adversely
    affect the Company’s business.


 



    Reliance
    on Outside Manufacturers





    Certain components or modules of the Company’s LC and MS
    instruments are manufactured by long-standing outside
    contractors. In April 2006, the Company transitioned the
    manufacturing of the Alliance HPLC instrument system to a
    company in Singapore. Disruptions of service by these outside
    contractors could have an adverse effect on the supply chain and
    the financial results of the Company. The Company believes that
    it could obtain alternative sources for these components or
    modules, but a prolonged inability to obtain these components or
    modules could have an adverse effect on the Company’s
    financial condition or results of operations.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Risk in
    Unexpected Shifts in Taxable Income between Tax
    Jurisdictions





    The Company is subject to a range of income tax rates, from 0%
    to in excess of 35%, depending on specific tax jurisdictions
    around the world. The Company typically generates a substantial
    portion of its taxable income in the fourth quarter of each
    fiscal year. Shifts in actual taxable income from previous
    quarters’ projections due to factors, including, but not
    limited to, changes in volume and foreign currency translation
    rates, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s income
    tax expense and results of operations.


 



    Levels of
    Debt and Debt Service Requirements





    The Company had approximately $884.2 million in debt and
    $693.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    investments as of December 31, 2007. As of
    December 31, 2007, the Company also has the ability to
    borrow an additional $233.2 million from its existing
    credit facilities. Most of the Company’s debt is in the
    U.S. While there is a substantial cash requirement in the
    U.S. to fund operations and capital expenditures, service
    debt interest obligations, finance potential acquisitions and
    continue authorized stock repurchase programs, a majority of the
    Company’s cash is maintained and generated from foreign
    operations. The Company’s financial condition and results
    of operations could be adversely impacted if the Company is
    unable to maintain a sufficient level of cash flow in the
    U.S. to address these requirements through cash from
    U.S. operations, efficient and timely repatriation of cash
    from overseas and other sources obtained at an acceptable cost.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B