Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    and any of those made in our other reports filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”).
    You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of
    this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to
    publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or
    circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the
    occurrence of unanticipated events.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We design, develop, manufacture and sell hard drives. A hard
    drive is a device that uses one or more rotating magnetic disks
    (“magnetic media”) to store and allow fast access to
    data. Hard drives are key components of computers, including
    desktop and notebook computers (“PCs”), data storage
    subsystems and many consumer electronic (“CE”) devices.


 


    We sell our products worldwide to original equipment
    manufacturers (“OEMs”) and original design
    manufacturers (“ODMs”) for use in computer systems,
    subsystems or CE devices, and to distributors, resellers and
    retailers. Our hard drives are used in desktop computers,
    notebook computers, and enterprise applications such as servers,
    workstations, network attached storage, storage area networks
    and video surveillance equipment. Additionally, our hard drives
    are used in CE applications such as digital video recorders
    (“DVRs”), and satellite and cable set-top boxes
    (“STBs”). We also sell our hard drives as stand-alone
    storage products and integrate them into finished enclosures,
    embedding application software and offering the products as
    WD®-branded

    external storage appliances for personal data backup and
    portable or expanded storage of digital music, photographs,
    video and other digital data.


 


    Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that
    the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the
    device. Our hard drives currently include 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch
    form factor drives, having capacities ranging from 40 gigabytes
    (“GB”) to 2 terabytes (“TB”), nominal
    rotation speeds up to 10,000 revolutions per minute
    (“RPM”), and offer interfaces including both Enhanced
    Integrated Drive Electronics (“EIDE”) and Serial
    Advanced Technology Attachment (“SATA”). We also embed
    our hard drives into
    WD®-branded

    external storage appliances using interfaces such as USB 2.0,
    external SATA,
    FireWiretm

    and Ethernet network connections with capacities of 160 GB up to
    8 TB. In addition, we offer a family of hard drives specifically
    designed to consume substantially less power than standard
    drives, utilizing our WD GreenPower
    Technologytm.



 


    In the second quarter of 2009, we began to design, develop,
    manufacture and sell media players. A media player is a device
    that connects to a user’s television or home theater system
    and plays digital movies, music and photos from any of our
    WD®-branded

    external hard drives or other USB mass storage devices. We sell
    our media players worldwide to resellers and retailers under our
    WD®

    brand.


 


    In the third quarter of 2009, with the acquisition of
    SiliconSystems, Inc. (“SiliconSystems”), we began to
    design, develop, manufacture and sell solid-state drives. A
    solid-state drive is a storage device that uses semiconductor,
    non-volatile media, rather than magnetic disks and magnetic
    heads, to store and allow fast access to data. We sell our
    solid-state drives worldwide to OEMs and distributors for use in
    the embedded systems market which includes
    network-communications, industrial, embedded-computing, medical,
    military, aerospace, media-appliance and data-streaming
    applications.


 



    Business
    Strategy


 


    Our business strategy is to provide a broad selection of
    reliable, high quality hard drives at a low total cost of
    ownership and with high efficiency and speed. We believe this
    strategy helps accomplish the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive hard drive
    industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    provides great value to our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    allows us to better achieve consistent financial performance,
    including strong returns on invested capital; and




 



     
        • 

    
    provides continued diversification of our hard drive product set
    and entry into additional markets such as solid-state drives and
    media players.





 


    We have designed our business strategy to accommodate
    significant unit and revenue growth with relatively small
    increases in operating expenses and to consistently achieve high
    asset utilization.



    
    4



Table of Contents





    Industry


 


    We design, develop and manufacture hard drives for the desktop
    and mobile PC, enterprise, CE and branded product retail
    markets. We believe that growth in the sales of hard drives has
    continued to outpace the growth in the sales of all PCs as there
    were approximately 84% more hard drives sold in the market than
    PCs in calendar 2008, based on industry data. We believe the
    following factors continue to drive this accelerating growth of
    hard drive sales in addition to PC applications:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consumer use of hard drives for the playing, retention and
    creation of digital content for personal use in the rapidly
    growing CE market;




 



     
        • 

    
    growth of the external hard drive or branded products market,
    permitting the easy storage, portability and backup of digital
    data such as music, photographs or video;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased use of multiple hard drives in PCs for data backup and
    expanded storage capacity; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increased use of multiple cost-optimized high performance hard
    drives in data-intensive applications such as Internet search
    engines and in hard drive intensive hosts for handheld computing
    devices.





 


    Additionally, we believe that the demand for 2.5-inch hard
    drives has grown from approximately 16% of the overall hard
    drive market in calendar 2003 to 41% of the overall hard drive
    market in calendar 2008, driven by the fast-growing markets for
    notebook and netbook computers, game consoles and external
    storage.


 


    We design, develop and manufacture solid-state drives for the
    embedded systems market which includes network-communications,
    industrial, embedded-computing, medical, military, aerospace,
    media appliance and data streaming applications. We believe that
    the growth rate of solid-state drives will be significant over
    the next four years, with particular opportunities for growth in
    the enterprise storage, netbooks, and embedded systems markets.


 


    We also design, develop and manufacture
    WD®-branded

    media players for the retail market. We believe there is a
    growing need for consumers to play their stored digital content
    on their television or home theater system in connection with
    the growing trend in the digitization of rich content and data.


 


    These factors and our product expansion strategy have gradually
    increased our percentage of revenue derived from non-desktop
    sources. In 2009, 62% of our revenue was from non-desktop
    sources compared to 56% in 2008.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks relating to the hard drive
    industry, please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Desktop
    PC Market


 


    The desktop PC market consists of the overall hard drive market
    for desktop computers. Individuals use desktop computers in
    homes, businesses and multi-user networks. Desktop computers use
    software applications for word processing, spreadsheet, desktop
    publishing, database management, multimedia, entertainment and
    for other needs. Hard drives store desktop computer operating
    system and application software, as well as the data used by the
    applications.


 


    We believe that the demand for hard drives in the desktop PC
    market has grown in part due to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the overall growth of desktop computer sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their desktop computers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the continuing development of software applications to manage
    multimedia content; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto desktop computer hard drives.





 


    We believe several other factors affect the rate of desktop
    computer unit growth, including growth of notebook and netbook
    computers, maturing desktop PC markets in North America and
    Western Europe, an increase in first-time buyers of desktop
    computers in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, and the
    lengthening of desktop computer replacement cycles.



    
    5



Table of Contents





    Mobile PC
    Market


 


    The mobile PC market consists primarily of notebook and netbook
    computers. Individuals use mobile computers both in and away
    from homes and businesses. Like desktop computers, mobile
    computers use software applications for various needs and hard
    drives store notebook operating system and application software,
    and the data used by the applications.


 


    We believe that the demand for hard drives in the mobile PC
    market has grown in part due to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the overall growth of mobile sales, including increased
    transition from desktop computers to mobile computers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increased mobility of the workforce;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their notebook computers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the continuing development of software applications to manage
    multimedia content; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto notebook hard drives.





 


    We expect the mobile PC market to continue to grow faster than
    the desktop or enterprise markets in the next three years. As
    the mobile PC market continues to evolve to a higher volume
    market, we believe customers are placing increased emphasis on
    attributes such as quality, availability, reliability,
    execution, flexibility, capacity, performance, power and the
    competitive cost structures of their hard drive suppliers. These
    are the same attributes that have been emphasized for many years
    by customers in the high-volume desktop PC market.


 



    Enterprise
    Market


 


    The enterprise market for hard drives includes workstations,
    servers, network attached storage, storage area networks, other
    computing systems or subsystems, and video surveillance.
    Historically, hard drives for this market have utilized several
    interfaces, including the Small Computer Systems Interface
    (“SCSI”) and Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop
    (“FC-AL”). Beginning in 2003, these traditional
    enterprise interfaces have been supplemented or replaced in
    certain storage applications by hard drives featuring the Serial
    Attached SCSI (“SAS”) interface technology, which is
    supported by industry standards, as well as by SATA. SATA hard
    drives typically cost customers less than SCSI hard drives while
    offering higher capacities and maintaining similar reliability,
    scalability and performance.


 


    We believe that enterprise uses of SATA hard drives will
    continue to increase. During the past few years, a new
    disk-based
    back-up
    application has emerged with high-capacity SATA hard drives
    augmenting SCSI and SAS hard drives, tape and optical media.
    This new application, popularly referred to as
    “near-line” storage, has created a growth market
    because hard drives back up or access data more quickly than
    tape or optical solutions, and quickly retrieve critical
    back-up or
    near-line data. The availability of SATA hard drive solutions,
    which are more cost effective than SCSI and SAS hard drives,
    promotes the increasing use of high-capacity hard drives in
    near-line storage applications. The low price per capacity of
    SATA drives has stimulated new applications such as video
    surveillance, video editing/broadcasting and medical imaging.
    These applications represent segments of a growing market for
    high capacity storage in non-computing imaging and multimedia
    professions.


 


    Enterprise-class SATA drives are becoming commonplace for
    IT infrastructure applications such as databases, scientific
    computing, web content, web caching, web search engines and
    electronic mail. These applications have become an important
    market for high-capacity SATA hard drives. We believe that this
    market will consume a growing portion of the highest capacity
    hard drives in the next three years.


 


    SAS is the next generation SCSI technology and has been
    replacing SCSI drives over the past few years. SATA technology
    is compatible with SAS technology, enabling customers the
    flexibility of incorporating SATA hard drives in SAS storage
    systems. We believe the market transition from SCSI to SAS has
    added to the growth of the enterprise-class SATA market,
    which currently is estimated to be approximately 47% of the
    enterprise hard drive market.


 


    High-performance server applications, including blade servers,
    are increasingly using 2.5-inch form factor hard drives,
    supplanting traditional 3.5-inch drives. Smaller form factors
    enable more drives per physical space for increased



    
    6



Table of Contents




    performance, higher capacity per square foot and lower power
    consumption. This trend demonstrates the fragmentation of the
    enterprise hard drive market and the need for
    application-specific enterprise-class hard drives.


 



    Consumer
    Electronics Market


 


    The use of hard drives in CE products has been a major growth
    area in recent years. Currently, the three largest segments of
    this market are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    video content in applications such as DVRs;




 



     
        • 

    
    audio and video content in applications such as consumer
    handheld devices, including MP3 players; and




 



     
        • 

    
    hard drives in game consoles.





 


    Since 1999, DVRs have been available for use in home
    entertainment systems and they offer enhanced capabilities such
    as pausing live television, simplifying the process of recording
    and cataloging recorded television programs and quickly
    forwarding or returning to any section of a recorded television
    program. Additionally, digital video disk (“DVD”)
    recorders increasingly incorporate hard drives to allow for DVR
    functionality and faster recording of content onto removable
    DVDs. The market for these products favors larger capacity hard
    drives and continues to grow in Japan, North America and Europe.
    Additionally, the rest of Asia Pacific shows strong interest in
    this market. We believe growth in this market will continue to
    build demand for higher capacity hard drives.


 


    The proliferation in the CE market of more sophisticated mobile
    devices including cell phones and MP3 players is driving the
    delivery of diverse content from hard drive intensive hosts. We
    believe this is one of the factors influencing increased sales
    of enterprise-class SATA drives. We also believe that
    multimedia handheld devices such as video cameras and
    high-resolution still cameras are enabling consumer production
    of expansive digital content that requires increasing amounts of
    small form-factor hard drive storage, as well as high-capacity
    desktop-class hard drives for editing, manipulation and
    long-term storage of such content.


 


    Hard drives with 1.8-inch or 1.0-inch form factors primarily
    address the consumer handheld device and portable external
    storage markets. The majority of hard drives used in portable
    media players that play both digital audio and video content are
    1.8-inch form factors. Currently, we believe the markets for
    these handheld devices are better served by flash memory as
    opposed to rotating magnetic storage.


 



    External
    Hard Drive Market


 


    Most new PC systems include high-speed external interfaces, such
    as USB 2.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretm

    or Ethernet network connections, that permit users to supplement
    the storage space of their PC systems or home and small office
    networks with the use of external hard drives. Users store
    additional programs or multimedia content, and back up internal
    hard drives with external hard drives, as well as mobile
    external hard drives for mobility convenience. Although external
    hard drives are a small part of the overall hard drive market,
    we believe that sales of external hard drives will continue to
    grow. External storage can often be the easiest, quickest or
    only way of adding additional storage capacity to either a
    desktop or notebook computer. We believe there is an increasing
    consumer awareness of the need and value of securely storing
    personal digital content through backup applications and
    devices. In addition, there is opportunity for external storage
    as a way of expanding storage capacity in CE devices such as
    DVRs. We also believe there is a growing need for media players
    that enable consumers to play digital movies, music and photos,
    otherwise limited to being viewed on computer screens, from USB
    mass storage devices on their television or home theater system.


 



    Solid-State
    Drive Market


 


    The solid-state drive market consists primarily of solid-state
    drives constructed with semiconductor, non-volatile media that
    retains data even when power is not applied using either
    single-level cell or multilevel cell NAND media. Our solid-state
    drive products are currently used in the embedded systems market
    which includes network-communications, industrial,
    embedded-computing, medical, military, aerospace, media
    appliance and data streaming applications.


 


    We believe that the demand for solid-state drives in certain
    markets has grown in part due to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the increasing performance, measured by input/output per second,
    in enterprise applications;






    
    7



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the increasing low entry cost applications in the netbook
    markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing premium performance applications in the desktop
    and notebook markets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing requirements of the embedded systems market for
    high durability and long life cycles.





 


    We expect the solid-state drive market to grow faster on a
    compounded annual growth rate basis than the hard drive market
    over the next four years.


 



    Other
    Market Opportunities


 


    We regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data
    storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve.
    Based on significant investments we made over the last five
    years, we believe we have the technology building blocks to
    increase our overall market penetration and be a full-line hard
    drive supplier. Consistent with our measured and deliberate
    approach to new market entries in the recent past, our approach
    to additional new markets will be based on a careful assessment
    of the risks, rewards, requirements and profit potential of such
    actions.


 



    Products


 


    We offer a broad line of hard drives designed for various
    markets. We market our hard drives under brand names including
    WD Caviar, WD RE, WD VelociRaptor, WD Scorpio, WD Elements, WD
    AV, My Passport, My Book, My DVR Expander and WD GreenPower
    Technology. These hard drives service the desktop, mobile,
    enterprise, CE and branded products markets, and can be found in
    products including desktop computers, notebook computers,
    enterprise storage, workstations, video surveillance equipment,
    networking products, DVRs, STBs and external storage appliances.
    We also offer a line of
    WD®-branded

    media players under the WD
    TVtm

    brand name, as well as a line of solid-state drives under the
    SiliconDrive®

    brand name.


 



    Desktop
    Hard Drive Products


 


    The hard drives we design for the desktop PC market currently
    consist of 3.5-inch form factor products with capacities ranging
    from 40 GB to 2 TB. These products utilize either the EIDE or
    SATA interfaces, providing high performance while retaining ease
    of use and overall low cost of connection. The type of EIDE
    interface currently used in our hard drives is ATA/100, which
    signifies a burst data transfer rate of 100 megabytes per
    second, which is the maximum specified data transition that can
    be sustained under ideal conditions. The SATA interface
    available in the majority of our hard drives enables burst
    transfer rates of up to 3 gigabits (Gb) per second.


 



    Mobile
    Hard Drive Products


 


    Our hard drives used in mobile products typically include
    2.5-inch form factor drives for notebook computers. Although the
    desktop PC market still accounts for a majority of hard drive
    sales, unit shipments of hard drives for notebook computers
    represent a growing share of the total. We entered the 2.5-inch
    mobile market in September 2004. We are now shipping our seventh
    generation of the WD
    Scorpio®

    product family, offering up to 1 TB of capacity. Our product
    expansion, including a high-performance hard drive spinning at
    7,200 RPM and producing ultra-high capacities for specific
    applications with a three platter platform, has enabled us to
    provide customers with a full-line of 2.5-inch mobile drives and
    helped us enhance our market position in this fast-growing
    market.


 



    Enterprise
    Hard Drive Products


 


    We offer multiple product lines to address enterprise market
    needs, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the WD
    VelociRaptortm

    drive, which is a 300 GB, 10,000 RPM, 2.5-inch
    enterprise-class drive with the SATA interface for enterprise
    applications requiring high performance and high reliability;




 



     
        • 

    
    the
    WD®

    RE family of drives, with capacities ranging from 160 GB to 2
    TB. The
    WD®

    RE family serves the SATA market and has enhanced reliability
    features and ratings when contrasted to our desktop
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    low-power versions of the
    WD®

    RE family of drives featuring WD GreenPower
    Technologytm,

    which reduces power consumption as much as 40 percent
    compared with standard hard drives. Lower power consumption






    
    8



Table of Contents






    
    
    



     
    

    
    reduces total cost of ownership for our customers by cutting
    energy costs and lowering operating temperatures, which
    contributes to longer reliability.





 


    Both WD
    VelociRaptortm

    and
    WD®

    RE drives may be used in, but are not limited to, applications
    such as databases,
    e-commerce
    and super computing in life science, oil and gas and similar
    industries, business records management,
    e-mail, file
    serving, web serving, near-line storage, medical records,
    engineering data management, video broadcasting and video
    security. The WD
    VelociRaptortm

    also has been popular for use in the high-end desktop PC market
    for applications including gaming and advanced CAD/CAM
    (“computer aided design/computer-aided manufacturing”)
    systems.


 



    Consumer
    Electronics Products


 


    We offer a line of hard drives under the
    WD®

    AV brand that are designed for use in products such as DVRs,
    STBs, karaoke systems, multi-function printers and gaming
    systems.
    WD®

    AV drives deliver the characteristics CE manufacturers seek
    most, which are quiet operation, low operating temperature, low
    power consumption specifications, high reliability and optimized
    streaming capabilities. We also offer low-power
    WD®

    AV drive models that feature the WD GreenPower
    Technologytm.

    Lower power consumption in our
    WD®

    AV drives results in cooler operation, which enhances long-term
    reliability. Our WD GreenPower
    Technologytm

    also quiets drive operation, which is an important attribute for
    our consumer electronics customers.


 



    Branded
    Products


 


    We sell a broad line of
    WD®-branded

    hard drive-based storage appliances, which are internal drives
    embedded into PC peripheral-style enclosures that have USB 2.0,
    external SATA,
    FireWiretm

    and Ethernet network connections and include software that
    assists customers with back up, remote access and management of
    digital content. We sell these branded storage appliances, as
    well as related adapters and accessories, through retail store
    fronts, online stores and distributors. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the 3.5-inch hard drive-based My
    Book®

    family of storage appliances, which are designed to reside on
    desktops as PC peripherals, as well as be connected to networks,
    and to simplify storage for mainstream consumers, and offer from
    160 GB to 4 TB of capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    the 3.5-inch My DVR
    Expandertm

    series of external SATA (“eSATA”) and USB 2.0 storage
    appliances, which adds recording time to STBs with DVR
    capability;




 



     
        • 

    
    the WD
    ShareSpacetm

    network-attached storage system, which offers capacities as high
    as 8 TB for home office or small office applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    the 2.5-inch hard drive-based My
    Passporttm

    Portable series of USB 2.0 and
    FireWiretm

    storage devices, which, weighing less than one-half of a pound,
    offer from 160 GB to 1 TB of portable storage capacity; and




 



     
        • 

    
    3.5-inch and 2.5-inch internal hard drives packaged with PC
    installation kits under the
    WD®

    brand for retail store sales.





 


    We also sell a line of
    WD®-branded

    media players which are devices that enable users to play
    digital movies, music and photos from any of our
    WD®

    branded external hard drives or other USB mass storage devices
    on a television or home theater system, independent of the PC.
    Our media players provide rich high definition playback and
    navigation up to 1080p, multiple ports to connect to multiple
    mass storage devices and access them simultaneously,
    high-definition multimedia interface ports to connect to the
    highest quality HDTV or home theater system and composite
    outputs to ensure compatibility with virtually all television
    sets.


 



    Solid-State
    Drive Products


 


    We offer a line of solid-state drives under the
    SiliconDrive®

    brand that provides advanced storage technologies for the
    embedded systems market which includes network-communications,
    industrial, medical, military, aerospace, media appliance and
    data streaming applications. We are now shipping three
    generations of the
    SiliconDrive®

    product family in 2.5-inch, 1.8-inch, CF and other small form
    factors, with capacities ranging from 32 MB to 120 GB,
    interfaces that include SATA, PATA/EIDE/CF and USB 2.0 and
    read/write speeds of up to 100/80 MB per second. These drives
    also



    
    9



Table of Contents




    address the stringent embedded systems market requirements to
    ensure data integrity, eliminate unscheduled downtime, protect
    application data and software and provide for data security and
    protection through our patented and patent-pending
    PowerArmor®,

    SiSMART®,

    SolidStor®

    and
    SiSecuretm

    technologies.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We devote substantial resources to development of new products
    and improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering
    efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing
    processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective
    and timely manner. Research and development expenses totaled
    $509 million, $464 million and $306 million in
    2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.


 


    Fiscal 2009 represented the eighth consecutive year of
    substantial growth in our research and development spending to
    support our significant broadening of our product and technology
    portfolios. Over that eight-year period, we grew our research
    and development spending 350% from $113 million in fiscal
    2001 to $509 million in fiscal 2009. As a result of this
    investment activity, we continue to expand our business beyond
    the desktop PC market into newer markets or markets in which we
    have not previously participated. Such investments have allowed
    us to execute against our strategic objective of revenue
    diversification to address the growth of new applications for
    hard drives and fast-growing new market opportunities.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our development
    of new products, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Technology
    and Product Development


 


    Hard drives record, store and retrieve digital data. Performance
    attributes of hard drives, such as their ability to access and
    transmit data and storage capacity, are currently better than
    removable or floppy disks, optical hard drives and tapes, and
    they are more cost effective than semiconductor technology. The
    primary measures of hard drive performance include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    “Acoustics” — which is the sound power
    emitted during hard drive operation, commonly expressed in
    decibels, and perceived loudness due to sound pressure, commonly
    expressed in sones.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Data transfer rate” — which is the
    sustained rate of data transfer to and from the disk, commonly
    expressed in gigabits per second. One gigabit equals one billion
    bits.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Seek time” — which is the time needed to
    position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface,
    commonly expressed in milliseconds.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Spindle rotation speed” — which is the
    nominal rotation speed of the disks inside the hard drive,
    commonly expressed in RPM or latency. Spindle rotation speeds
    commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200 and 10,000 RPM are sometimes
    approximations.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Storage capacity” — which is the amount of
    data that can be stored on the hard drive, commonly expressed in
    GB or TB. As defined in the hard drive industry, one GB equals
    one billion bytes and one TB equals one trillion bytes. A byte
    is a digital character, typically comprised of eight bits. A bit
    is a binary digit, the smallest unit of information in a digital
    system.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Power Consumption” — which is the amount of
    electricity required to operate the drive, measured in watts.





 


    All of our hard drive products employ similar technology. The
    main components of the hard drive are a Head-Disk-Assembly
    (“HDA”) and a Printed Circuit Board Assembly
    (“PCBA”). The HDA includes heads, magnetic media
    (“disks”), head positioning mechanism
    (“actuator”) and spindle motor. A rigid base and top
    cover contain these components in a contamination-controlled
    environment. The PCBA includes both standard and custom
    integrated circuits, an interface connector to the host computer
    and a power connector.


 


    HDA: One or more disks positioned around a motor-driven spindle
    hub that rotates the disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The
    disk is made up of a smooth substrate on which thin layers of
    magnetic materials are deposited. The head stack assembly
    (“HSA”) is comprised of a magnetic positioner, a
    pivot-arm module, on which the individual heads



    
    10



Table of Contents




    are mounted. Each disk has a head suspended directly above it,
    which can read data from or write data to the spinning disk.


 


    PCBA: The integrated circuits on the printed circuit board
    typically include a drive interface and a controller. The drive
    interface receives instructions from the host computer, while
    the controller directs the flow of data to or from the disks and
    controls the heads. The location of data on each disk is
    logically maintained in concentric tracks divided into sectors.
    The host computer sends instructions to the controller to read
    data from or write data to the disks, based on logical track and
    sector locations. Guided by instructions from the controller,
    the HSA pivots in an arc, across the disk until it reaches the
    selected track of a disk, where the data is recorded or
    retrieved.


 


    Industry-standard interfaces allow the hard drive to communicate
    with the computer. Currently, the primary interfaces for PCs are
    EIDE (Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment, or
    “PATA”) and SATA, and the primary interfaces for
    enterprise systems are SATA, SCSI, SAS, and FC-AL. As computer
    performance continues to improve, the hard drive will need to
    deliver information faster. We believe this will continue to
    drive the PC industry transition to higher speed interfaces,
    such as SATA and SAS, to facilitate the higher data transfer
    rates. We currently offer the SATA interface on our WD
    Caviar®,

    WD
    Scorpio®

    WD®

    RE, WD
    VelociRaptortm

    and
    WD®

    AV hard drive families; and EIDE (PATA) on WD
    Caviar®,

    WD
    Scorpio®

    and
    WD®AV

    families.


 


    The number of disks and each disk’s areal density (track
    density multiplied by bit density), which is a measure of the
    amount of data that can be stored on the recording surface of
    the disk per unit area, determines storage capacity of the hard
    drive. The higher the areal density, the more information can be
    stored on a single platter. Achieving a given drive capacity
    requires fewer disks and heads as the areal density increases,
    potentially reducing product costs over time through reduced
    component requirements. In January 2009, we began shipping our
    WD
    Caviar®

    3.5-inch family of drives at 500 GB per platter (approximately
    400 gigabits per square inch) areal density. In July 2009, we
    began shipping our WD
    Scorpio®

    Bluetm

    2.5-inch 1 TB drives at 333 GB per platter (approximately 525
    gigabits per square inch) areal density.


 


    Head technology is one of the key components affecting areal
    density. Historically, there have been rapid technological
    changes resulting in several generations of head technology in a
    relatively short time. However, in recent years the time has
    lengthened between changes in generations of head technology.
    The hard drive industry has transitioned from the use of
    longitudinal magnetic recording (“LMR”) head
    technology for the head writer function to perpendicular
    magnetic recording (“PMR”) technology, which allows
    for significantly higher storage capacities. In addition, the
    industry has made the transition to tunnel-junction magneto
    resistive (“TMR”) technology for the head reader
    function. We have completed the transition to PMR and TMR across
    all of our product platforms.


 


    With the transition to PMR, magnetic media plays a much more
    important role in achieving higher areal density. PMR demands a
    much tighter interaction and matching between head and magnetic
    media designs. We are vertically integrated in the two most
    important technology components of hard drives (heads and
    magnetic media), which has enabled us to achieve a more optimum
    design and utilization of these components.


 


    We invest considerable resources in research and development,
    manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment of head and
    magnetic media components, in order to secure our competitive
    position and cost structure.


 


    Solid-state drives record, store and retrieve digital data
    without any moving parts. Attributes, such as fast read/write
    speeds, low power consumption and robust durability offer
    greater performance than hard drives in some storage
    applications but are currently much more costly per gigabyte and
    are available in much lower capacity points than hard drives.
    The main components of a solid-state drive are the
    system-on-chip
    and semiconductor media. The capacity, measured in megabytes or
    gigabytes, of a solid-state drive is based on the total number
    of megabits or gigabits of semiconductor media in the
    solid-state drive. Industry-standard storage interface
    protocols, such as SATA,
    PATA/EIDE/CF
    and USB 2.0, allow the solid-state drive to communicate with the
    host system.


 


    The
    WD®

    product lines generally leverage a common platform for various
    products within product families with different capacities to
    serve differing market needs. This platform strategy results in
    commonality of components across different products within
    product families and, in some cases, across product families,
    which reduces exposure to changes in demand, facilitates
    inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs
    through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also
    enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts
    onto successive product models.



    
    11



Table of Contents




    For an additional discussion of risks related to technological
    innovations, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Sales and
    Distribution


 


    We sell our products globally to OEMs, ODMs, distributors and
    retailers. OEMs purchase our products, either directly or
    through a contract manufacturer such as an ODM, and assemble
    them into the computer or CE systems they build. Distributors
    typically sell our products to non-direct customers such as
    small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems
    integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Retailers
    typically sell our products directly to end-users through their
    storefront or online facilities.


 



    Original
    Equipment Manufacturers


 


    Sales to OEMs, which include sales through ODMs, accounted for
    54%, 51% and 48% of our net revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. For 2009 and 2007, sales to Dell Inc. accounted
    for 10% of our net revenue. For 2008, no single customer
    accounted for 10%, or more, of our net revenue. We believe that
    our success depends on our ability to maintain and improve our
    strong relationships with the leading OEMs.


 


    OEMs evaluate and select their hard drive and solid-state drive
    suppliers based on a number of factors, including quality and
    reliability, storage capacities, performance characteristics,
    price, service and support, ease of doing business, and the
    supplier’s long-term financial stability. They typically
    seek to qualify two or more providers for each generation of
    products, and once an OEM has chosen its qualified vendors for a
    given product, it generally will purchase products from those
    vendors for the life of that product. To achieve success with
    OEM qualifications, a supplier must consistently offer products
    featuring leading technology, quality and reliability at
    acceptable capacity. Suppliers must quickly achieve volume
    production of each new generation of high quality and reliable
    hard drives or solid-state drives, requiring access to flexible,
    high-capacity, high-quality manufacturing capabilities.


 


    Many of our OEM customers utilize
    just-in-time
    inventory management processes or supply chain business models
    that combine
    “build-to-order,”
    in which they do not build until there is a firm order, and
    “contract manufacturing,” in which the OEM contracts
    assembly work to a contract manufacturer, such as an ODM, who
    purchases components and assembles the computer based on the
    OEM’s instructions. For certain OEMs, we maintain a base
    stock of finished goods inventory in facilities located near or
    adjacent to the OEM’s operations.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our need to
    adapt to our customers’ business models and maintain
    customer satisfaction, refer to Item 1A of this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Distributors


 


    We use a broad group of distributors to sell our products to
    non-direct customers such as small computer and CE
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, online retailers
    and other resellers. Distributors accounted for approximately
    26%, 31% and 36% of our net revenue for 2009, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. Distributors generally enter into non-exclusive
    agreements for specific territories with us for the purchase and
    redistribution of our products in those territories. We grant
    our distributors limited price protection rights.


 



    Retailers


 


    We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers such as computer superstores, warehouse clubs, online
    retailers, and computer electronics stores, and authorize sales
    through distributors to smaller retailers. Retailers accounted
    for approximately 20%, 18% and 16% of our net revenue for 2009,
    2008 and 2007, respectively. Our current retail customer base is
    primarily in the United States (“U.S.”), Canada and
    Europe. The retail channel complements our other sales channels
    while helping to build brand awareness for WD and our products.
    Retailers supply end-users with our products to upgrade their
    computers, externally store their data for backup or mobility
    purposes and play their stored digital content on their
    television or home theater systems. We grant our retailers price
    protection and limited rights to return product on an inventory
    rotation basis. We also sell our branded products through our
    web site.



    
    12



Table of Contents





    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world
    including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific,
    Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which
    include sales to foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies but
    do not include sales to U.S. subsidiaries of foreign
    companies, represented 80%, 76% and 68% of our net revenue for
    2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Sales to international
    customers may be subject to certain risks not normally
    encountered in domestic operations, including exposure to
    tariffs and various trade regulations. For an additional
    discussion regarding the risks related to sales to international
    customers, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    For additional information concerning revenue recognition, sales
    by geographic region and major customer information, see
    Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally
    and through outside firms. We target advertising, worldwide
    packaging and marketing materials to various reseller and
    end-user categories. We utilize both consumer media and trade
    publications. We have programs under which we reimburse
    qualified distributors and retailers for certain marketing
    expenditures. We also maintain customer relationships by
    communicating with our resellers and providing end-users with
    information and support through our web site.


 



    Competition


 


    We compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives for use
    in desktop, notebook, enterprise, CE and external storage
    products. Our competitors in the hard drive market include
    companies such as Fujitsu Limited (which has announced that the
    transfer of its hard drive business to Toshiba has been delayed
    until September 2009), Hitachi Global Storage Technologies,
    Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Seagate Technology and Toshiba
    Corporation.


 


    The hard drive industry is intensely competitive, with hard
    drive suppliers competing for sales to a limited number of major
    customers. Hard drives manufactured by different competitors are
    highly substitutable due to the industry mandate of technical
    form, fit and function standards. Hard drive manufacturers
    compete on the basis of product quality and reliability, storage
    capacity, unit price, product performance, production volume
    capabilities, delivery capability, leadership in
    time-to-market,
    time-to-volume
    and
    time-to-quality,
    service and support and ease of doing business. The relative
    importance of these factors varies by customer and market. We
    believe that we are generally competitive in all of these
    factors.


 


    We believe that there are no substantial barriers for existing
    competitors to offer competing products. Therefore, we believe
    that we cannot differentiate
    WD®

    hard drive products solely on attributes such as storage
    capacity, buffer size or
    time-to-market.
    Accordingly, we differentiate WD by focusing on operational
    excellence, high product quality and reliability, and designing
    and incorporating into our hard drives desirable product
    performance attributes. Such performance attributes include seek
    times, data transfer rates, intelligent caching, failure
    prediction, remote diagnostics, acoustics, error recovery, low
    operating temperature, low power consumption and optimized
    streaming capabilities.


 


    In addition, we differentiate WD by emphasizing non-product
    related attributes, including rapid response to our customers.
    Rapid response requires accelerated design cycles, customer
    delivery, production flexibility and timely service and support,
    which contribute to customer satisfaction. We also rely on the
    strength of the WD brand name with value-added resellers,
    retailers and solution providers to whom we sell our hard drive
    products directly and indirectly. We believe that trust in a
    manufacturer’s reputation, its execution track record and
    the establishment of strategic relationships have become
    important factors in the selection of a hard drive, particularly
    in a rapidly changing technology environment.


 


    Advances in magnetic, optical or other data storage technologies
    could result in competitive products with better performance or
    lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. We monitor
    the advantages, disadvantages and advances of the full array of
    storage technologies on an ongoing basis.


 


    High-speed semiconductor media competes with hard drive products
    in some applications, such as consumer handheld devices and
    portable external storage. Semiconductor media is much faster in
    some applications than magnetic hard drives, but currently is
    not competitive in most applications using 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch
    form factor hard drives



    
    13



Table of Contents




    from a cost standpoint. Flash memory, a non-volatile
    semiconductor media, is currently much more costly and, while it
    has higher “read” performance attributes than hard
    drives, it has lower “write” performance attributes.
    Flash memory could become more competitive in the near future
    for additional applications requiring less storage capacity than
    that provided by hard drives. However, we believe that the
    traditional high-volume computing markets will remain the domain
    of 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch hard drives based on the hard drive
    industry’s attributes of reliability, availability and cost.


 


    Our competitors in the external hard drive market include
    companies such as EMC Corporation, Hitachi Global Storage
    Technologies, LaCie Group, Melco Holdings Inc. and Seagate
    Technology. Our competitors in the solid-state drive market
    include companies such as Intel Corporation, Micron Technology,
    Inc., Smart Modular Technologies, Inc., STEC, Inc., and Samsung
    Electronics Co. Ltd.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to competition,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Service
    and Warranty


 


    We generally warrant our newly manufactured products against
    defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from
    the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our
    warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or
    replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries
    in multiple regions, including Africa, Asia Pacific, Australia,
    Europe, India, Latin America, the Middle East and North America
    to provide various levels of testing, processing
    and/or
    recertification of returned products for our customers. In
    addition, we receive and service returned hard drives at our
    U.S. facility.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product
    manufacturing processes, execution skills and human resources to
    continue to be successful and have the ability to grow, as
    necessary, our manufacturing operations. To be competitive, we
    must manufacture high quality hard drives with industry leading
    time-to-volume
    production at competitive unit costs. We strive to maintain
    manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, reliable
    products, and high-quality components that we manufacture
    ourselves, while insisting that our suppliers provide
    high-quality components at competitive prices. The critical
    elements of our hard drive production are high volume, low cost
    assembly and testing, and establishment and maintenance of key
    supplier relationships. By establishing close relationships with
    our strategic component suppliers, we believe we access
    best-of-class
    technology and manufacturing quality. In addition, we believe
    that our sourcing strategy currently enables us to have the
    business flexibility needed to select the highest quality, low
    cost of ownership suppliers as product designs and technologies
    evolve.


 


    Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the
    assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and
    thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean
    room” environment that demands skill in process engineering
    and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs
    of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing
    process consists of modular production units, each of which
    contains a number of work cells.


 


    We manufacture hard drives in Malaysia and Thailand. We
    continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to
    increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease
    manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the
    manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how
    automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and
    reduce manufacturing costs.


 


    We use our wafer fabrication facilities in Fremont, California
    and our slider fabrication facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand, to
    design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and
    head gimbal assemblies (“HGAs”) we include in the hard
    drives we manufacture. We have deferred the completion of
    converting our head wafer fabrication facilities in Fremont,
    California to utilize
    8-inch
    wafers from
    6-inch
    wafers as a result of macroeconomic conditions.


 


    We also have magnetic media and substrate design and
    manufacturing facilities in Malaysia. We use these facilities to
    design and manufacture most of the magnetic media and substrates
    that we use in our products.


 


    We leverage the efficiencies of contract manufacturers when
    strategically advantageous.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to manufacturing,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    Materials
    and Supplies


 


    The following products are the major components currently used
    in the manufacture of our hard drives:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    magnetic heads and magnetic media;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspensions with related HGAs and HSAs;




 



     
        • 

    
    spindle motors;




 



     
        • 

    
    custom and standard electronics such as
    system-on-chip,
    magnetic media, motor controllers,
    pre-amps and
    printed circuit boards;




 



     
        • 

    
    base and top covers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    magnets and related voice coil motors.





 


    We also use several other components in our hard drives such as
    seals, filters, plastic molded parts, capacitors, resistors,
    connectors and cables.


 


    We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads,
    magnetic media and substrates required for the hard drives we
    manufacture. We purchase a portion of these components from
    third party suppliers. We acquire all of the remaining
    components for our products from third party suppliers.


 


    The major components used in the manufacture of our solid-state
    drives, the semiconductor media and
    system-on-chip,
    and in our media player, the controller, are acquired from third
    party suppliers.


 


    We generally retain multiple suppliers for each of our component
    requirements but in some instances use sole sources for business
    reasons.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our component
    supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Backlog


 


    A substantial portion of our orders are generally for shipments
    within 30 to 60 days of the placement of the order. We
    generally negotiate pricing, order lead times, product support
    requirements and other terms and conditions before receiving a
    customer’s first purchase order for a product.
    Customers’ purchase orders typically may be canceled with
    relatively short notice to us, with little or no cost to the
    customer, or modified by customers to provide for delivery at a
    later date. In addition, we make many of our sales to OEMs under
    just-in-time
    delivery contracts that do not generally require firm order
    commitments by the customer until the time of sale. Instead, we
    receive a periodic forecast of requirements from the customer
    and invoice the customer upon shipment of the product from the
    just-in-time
    warehouse. Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a
    particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels
    of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to earlier
    periods.


 



    Patents,
    Licenses and Proprietary Information


 


    We own numerous patents and have many patent applications in
    process. We believe that, although our patents and patent
    applications have considerable value, the successful
    manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily
    upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff.
    Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our
    future success.


 


    In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that
    our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our
    process technology, is an important factor in our success. We
    rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions
    and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary
    information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that
    competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of
    foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide
    less protection for confidential information than the U.S.


 


    We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties
    to manufacture and sell WD products. We believe that we have
    adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in
    addition to our own intellectual property portfolio



    
    15



Table of Contents




    to compete successfully in the hard drive industry. For
    additional discussion of risks related to our ownership and use
    of intellectual property, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Environmental
    Regulation


 


    We are subject to a variety of regulations in connection with
    our operations. We believe that we have obtained or are in the
    process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
    operations. For additional discussion of risks related to
    environmental regulation, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Employees


 


    As of July 3, 2009, we employed a total of
    45,991 employees worldwide. This represents a decrease in
    headcount of approximately 8% since June 27, 2008 and an
    increase of approximately 56% since June 29, 2007. Many of
    our employees are highly skilled, and our continued success
    depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain such
    employees. Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs,
    which we believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those
    offered by our competitors. We and most of our competitors
    nevertheless have difficulty at times hiring and retaining
    certain skilled employees. We have engaged consultants and
    contract personnel to fill these needs until full-time employees
    could be recruited. We consider our employee relations to be
    good. For additional discussion of risks related to our skilled
    employees, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We maintain an Internet web site at
    http://www.westerndigital.com.
    Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a)
    and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    are available on our web site at
    http://www.westerndigital.com,
    free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
    electronic filing of these reports with the SEC. Any materials
    we file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public
    Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
    20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public
    Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    In addition, the SEC maintains a web site at
    http://www.sec.gov
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
    other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC, including us.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Listed below are all of our executive officers as of
    July 3, 2009, followed by a brief account of their business
    experience during the past five years. Executive officers are
    normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors at a
    meeting of the directors immediately following the Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders. There are no family relationships among
    these officers nor any arrangements or understandings between
    any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer
    was selected.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    John F. Coyne



 

 


    59

 


 


    President and Chief Executive Officer





    Timothy M. Leyden



 

 


    57

 


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





    Raymond M. Bukaty



 

 


    52

 


 


    Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary





    Hossein Moghadam



 

 


    65

 


 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer








 



 




    Mr. Coyne, 59, has been a director since October 2006. He
    joined us in 1983 and has served in various executive
    capacities. From November 2002 until June 2005, Mr. Coyne
    served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, from June
    2005 until September 2005, he served as Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Operations and from November 2005 until
    June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Operations Officer. Effective June 2006, he was named President
    and Chief Operating Officer. In January 2007, he became
    President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Coyne is a
    director of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.


 


    Mr. Leyden, 57, re-joined us in May 2007 as Executive Vice
    President, Finance, and was promoted to Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer in September 2007. From December
    2001 to May 2007, Mr. Leyden served in



    
    16



Table of Contents




    senior finance capacities at Sage Software Inc. and Sage
    Software of California, subsidiaries of Sage Group PLC, a U.K.
    public company that supplies accounting and business management
    software to small and medium-sized businesses, including as Vice
    President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from December
    2001 to May 2004 and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer from May 2004 to May 2007. Mr. Leyden
    previously served in various worldwide finance, manufacturing
    and information technology capacities with us from 1983 to
    December 2000.


 


    Mr. Bukaty, 52, joined us in 1999 as Vice President,
    Corporate Law. He was appointed to Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary in March 2002, and to Senior Vice
    President in January 2004, and assumed his current position as
    Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary in October 2004.


 


    Dr. Moghadam, 65, joined us in October 2000 as Vice
    President, Engineering and site manager of our San Jose
    facility. He served as Senior Vice President, Research and
    Development from November 2004 to November 2005 and was
    appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer in
    November 2005.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Negative
    worldwide economic conditions could continue to result in a
    decrease in our sales and revenue and an increase in our
    operating costs, which could continue to adversely affect our
    business and operating results.


 


    If the current worldwide economic downturn continues, many of
    our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their
    purchases of our products and systems containing our products.
    In addition, many of our customers in each of the OEM,
    distribution and retail channels rely on credit financing in
    order to purchase our products. If the negative conditions in
    the global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to
    credit, product orders in these channels may decrease, which
    could result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers face
    challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or
    otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable
    to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These
    actions could result in reductions in our revenue, increased
    price competition and increased operating costs, which could
    adversely affect our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.


 



    Negative
    worldwide economic conditions could prevent us from accurately
    forecasting demand for our products, which could adversely
    affect our operating results or market share.


 


    The current negative worldwide economic conditions and market
    instability make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers
    and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand
    trends, which could cause us to produce excess products that can
    depress product prices, increase our inventory carrying costs
    and result in obsolete inventory. Alternatively, this
    forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products, or
    materials used in our products, that could result in an
    inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of
    market share. For a further discussion of these risks, please
    see the risk factor below entitled “Our failure to
    accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products
    could adversely affect our business and financial results or
    operating efficiencies.”


 



    Negative
    global economic conditions increase the risk that we could
    suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’ accounts
    receivable, which would adversely affect our financial
    results.


 


    We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. In
    addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’
    financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our
    credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our
    accounts receivable balances; however, as a result of the
    current negative worldwide economic conditions, we may find it
    increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts
    receivable. We could suffer significant losses if a customer
    whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have
    underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us. Additionally, if
    global economic conditions worsen, the risk increases that if a
    customer whose accounts receivable we have insured fails, the
    financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer
    account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our
    loss. A significant loss of an accounts receivable that we
    cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative
    impact on our financial results.



    
    17



Table of Contents





    If the
    worldwide economic downturn worsens, we may have to take
    additional steps to align our cost structure with demand, which
    could result in increased impairment charges and have a negative
    impact on our operating results.


 


    As we previously announced, we committed to a business
    restructuring plan intended to realign our cost structure with a
    softer demand environment. If the worldwide economic downturn
    worsens and demand were to soften further, we may be forced to
    execute additional restructuring activities to realign our cost
    structure with softening demand. Additional restructuring
    activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses
    in excess of what we anticipated when we previously announced
    our restructuring plan, either of which could adversely impact
    our results of operations or financial condition.


 



    If our
    long-lived assets or goodwill become impaired, it may adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    If the current worldwide economic downturn continues, it could
    result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our
    stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our
    forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient,
    indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or
    goodwill may be impaired. If we are required to record a
    significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial
    statements because an impairment of our long-lived assets or
    goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be
    adversely affected.


 



    Declines
    in average selling prices (“ASPs”) in the hard drive
    industry could adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Historically, the hard drive industry has experienced declining
    ASPs. Our ASPs tend to decline when competitors lower prices as
    a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity,
    liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain
    market share. Our ASPs also decline when there is a shift in the
    mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products
    increase relative to those of higher priced products. When ASPs
    in the hard drive industry decline, our ASPs are also likely to
    decline, which adversely affects our operating results.


 



    If we
    fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets
    for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    During past economic downturns, as well as over the past few
    years, the consumer market for computers has shifted
    significantly towards lower priced systems, and we therefore
    expect this trend to continue in light of the current negative
    worldwide macroeconomic conditions. If we are not able to
    continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive for the
    low-cost PC market, our share of that market will likely fall,
    which could harm our operating results. The market for hard
    drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and
    products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as
    content increasingly converts to digital technology from the
    older analog technology, the technology of computers and
    consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives
    may be found in many products other than computers, such as
    various CE devices. Accurately forecasting for future
    requirements of these new markets remains challenging.


 


    Moreover, some devices such as personal video recorders and
    digital video recorders, or some new PC operating systems which
    allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality and
    therefore greater market differentiation, may require attributes
    not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to
    develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications
    or product features, increasing our overall operational expense
    without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. If we
    are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive
    technology and expertise to develop new products for emerging
    markets such as the CE market, or if we are required to incur
    significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our
    operating results.


 



    Our
    prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable
    end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives.


 


    Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems
    manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to
    existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in
    the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand
    for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the hard drive
    market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead
    to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price
    competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be
    forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which
    could result in lower revenue and gross margins.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Our
    failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for
    our products could adversely affect our business and financial
    results or operating efficiencies.


 


    The data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately
    forecasting market and customer demand for its products. The
    variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part
    on these forecasts. If our forecasts exceed actual market
    demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our
    forecasts, then we could experience periods of product
    oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial
    performance. If our forecasts do not meet actual market demand,
    or if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts
    or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may
    not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could
    result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to
    meet customer demands.


 


    Although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not
    generally obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. Sales
    volumes in the distribution and retail channels are volatile and
    harder to predict than sales to our OEM or ODM customers. We
    consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and
    our inventory requirements. If we fail to accurately forecast
    our customers’ product demands, we may have inadequate or
    excess inventory of our products or components, which could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    In order to efficiently and timely meet the demands of many of
    our OEM customers, we position our products in multiple
    strategic locations based on the amounts forecasted by such
    customers. If an OEM customer’s actual product demands
    decrease significantly from its forecast, then we may incur
    additional costs in relocating the products that have not been
    purchased by the OEM. This could result in a delay in our
    product sales and an increase in our operating costs, which may
    negatively impact our operating results.


 



    Increases
    in areal density may outpace customers’ demand for storage
    capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing
    to pay for new products or put us at a disadvantage to competing
    technologies.


 


    Historically, the industry has experienced periods of variable
    areal density growth rates. When the rate of areal density
    growth increases, the rate of increase may exceed the increase
    in our customers’ demand for aggregate storage capacity.
    Furthermore, our customers’ demand for storage capacity may
    not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result
    of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital
    rights management, the emergence of processes such as cloud
    computing, data deduplication and storage virtualization, or
    otherwise. These factors could lead to our customers’
    storage capacity needs being satisfied at lower prices with
    lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products that
    we do not offer, thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at
    a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. As a result,
    even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our
    ASPs could decline, which could adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    Our entry
    into additional storage markets increases the complexity of our
    business, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our
    business processes as required by these new markets, we will be
    at a competitive disadvantage and our ability to grow will be
    adversely affected.


 


    As we expand our product line to sell into additional storage
    markets, the overall complexity of our business increases at an
    accelerated rate and we must make necessary adaptations to our
    business model to address these complexities. For example, as we
    have previously disclosed, we have been investing in technology
    to develop and support a product line to sell to mainstream
    enterprise market customers. In addition to requiring
    significant capital expenditures, our entry into the mainstream
    enterprise market adds complexity to our business that requires
    us to effectively adapt our business and management processes to
    address the unique challenges and different requirements of the
    mainstream enterprise market, while maintaining a competitive
    operating cost model. If we fail or are delayed in our attempts
    to enter into the mainstream enterprise storage market, we will
    remain at a competitive disadvantage to the companies that serve
    this market and our ability to continue our growth will be
    negatively affected.


 



    Expansion
    into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures
    to increase, and if we do not successfully expand into new
    markets, our business may suffer.


 


    To remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to
    offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. We
    currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch or 2.5-inch hard drives
    for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE and external storage
    markets. However, demand for hard drives may shift to products
    in form factors or with interfaces that



    
    19



Table of Contents




    our competitors offer but which we do not. Expansion into other
    hard drive markets and resulting increases in manufacturing
    capacity requirements may require us to make substantial
    additional investments in part because our operations are
    largely vertically integrated now that we manufacture heads and
    magnetic media for use in many of the hard drives we
    manufacture. If we fail to successfully expand into new hard
    drive markets with products that we do not currently offer, we
    may lose business to our competitors who offer these products.


 



    If we
    fail to successfully manage our new product development or new
    market expansion, or if we fail to anticipate the issues
    associated with such development or expansion, our business may
    suffer.


 


    While we continue to develop new products and look to expand
    into new markets, the success of our new product introductions
    depends on a number of factors, including our ability to
    anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these
    new products and new markets, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp;




 



     
        • 

    
    market acceptance;




 



     
        • 

    
    effective management of inventory levels in line with
    anticipated product demand; and




 



     
        • 

    
    quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new
    product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of
    those products.





 


    Further, we need to identify how any of the new markets into
    which we are expanding may have different characteristics from
    the markets in which we currently exist and properly address
    these differences. These characteristics may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demand volume requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    demand seasonality;




 



     
        • 

    
    product generation development rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    customer concentrations;




 



     
        • 

    
    warranty expectations and product return policies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    cost, performance and compatibility requirements.





 


    Our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate
    and manage these issues associated with our product development
    and market expansion. For example, our branded products are
    designed to attach to and interoperate with a wide variety of PC
    and CE devices, and therefore their functionality relies on the
    manufacturer of such devices, or the associated operating
    systems, enabling the manufacturer’s devices to operate
    with our branded products. If our branded products are not
    compatible with a wide variety of devices, or if device
    manufacturers design their devices so that our branded products
    cannot operate with them, and we cannot quickly and efficiently
    adapt our branded products to address these compatibility
    issues, our business could suffer.


 



    Expanding
    into new markets exposes our business to different seasonal
    demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    The CE and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and
    volume demand cycles as compared to the PC market. By expanding
    into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations
    that are different from, and in addition to, those of the PC
    market. For example, because the primary customer for our
    branded products are individual consumers, this market has
    historically experienced a dramatic increase in demand during
    the winter holiday season. If we do not properly adjust our
    supply to these new demand cycles, we risk having excess
    inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient
    inventory during periods of high demand, which could adversely
    affect our operating results.



    
    20



Table of Contents





    Selling
    to the retail market is an important part of our business, and
    if consumer spending continues to decrease, or if we fail to
    maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of
    our branded products, our operating results could
    suffer.


 


    Selling branded products is an important part of our business,
    and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of
    our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes
    increasingly important to our operating results. If consumer
    spending continues to decrease as a result of the current
    worldwide economic downturn, our operating results could suffer
    because of the increased importance of our branded products
    business.


 


    We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers, such as computer superstores and CE stores, and
    authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and
    online resellers. Our current retail customer base is primarily
    in the U.S., Canada and Europe. We are facing increased
    competition from other companies for shelf space at a small
    number of major retailers that have strong buying power and
    pricing leverage. If we are unable to maintain effective working
    relationships with major retailers and online resellers, our
    competitive position in the branded product market may suffer
    and our operating results may be adversely affected. In
    addition, if customers no longer maintain a preference for
    WD®-brand

    products or if we fail to successfully expand into multiple
    channels, our operating results may be adversely affected.


 


    Additionally, we face strong competition in maintaining and
    trying to grow our market share in the retail market,
    particularly because of the relatively low barriers to entry in
    this market. For example, several additional hard drive
    manufacturers have recently disclosed plans to expand into the
    external storage market, and as these companies attempt to gain
    market share, we may have difficulty in maintaining or growing
    our market share and there may be increased downward pressure on
    pricing. We will continue to introduce new products in the
    retail market that incorporate our disk drives; however, there
    can be no assurance that these products will gain market
    acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could
    suffer.


 



    Loss of
    market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among
    our customer base, could harm our operating results.


 


    During the year ended July 3, 2009, a large percentage of
    our revenue, 48%, came from sales to our top 10 customers. These
    customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and
    therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands
    on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results
    in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Even if we
    successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer is
    not generally obligated to purchase any minimum volume of
    products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate
    its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain
    strong relationships with our principal customers is essential
    to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of
    our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require
    us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a
    customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key
    customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would
    likely be harmed.


 


    Additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base,
    our customers may be able to command increased leverage in
    negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could
    adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if, as a result
    of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce
    our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could
    decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which
    could result in a decrease in our revenue. Consolidation among
    our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our
    products, replacement of our products by the combined entity
    with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each
    of which could harm our operating results.


 



    Current
    or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop
    an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match.


 


    It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain
    an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or
    process technology, which may allow them to offer products or
    services that have a significant advantage over the products and
    services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity,
    performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes.
    We may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that
    are able to gain these advantages.



    
    21



Table of Contents





    Further
    industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to
    our competitors.


 


    The hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the
    past several years. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance
    their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost
    structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage.
    Additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to
    uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could
    negatively impact our cost structure.


 



    Sales in
    the distribution channel are important to our business, and if
    we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if
    distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating
    results could suffer.


 


    Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers.
    We face significant competition in this channel as a result of
    limited product qualification programs and a significant focus
    on price and availability of product. If we fail to remain
    competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and
    support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors,
    and our operating results could suffer. We also face significant
    risk in the distribution market for hard drives. If the
    distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing PC growth
    rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer
    buying preference from white box to branded PCs, or if we
    experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the
    distribution channel, then our operating results would be
    adversely affected.


 



    The hard
    drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by
    significant shifts in market share among the major
    competitors.


 


    The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases
    in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price
    reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess
    inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition,
    rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and
    profitability of sales of existing products and increase the
    risk of inventory obsolescence. These factors, taken together,
    may result in significant shifts in market share among the
    industry’s major participants. In addition, product recalls
    can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect
    our operating results.


 



    Some of
    our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard
    drive industry may over extended periods of time sell hard
    drives at prices that we cannot profitably match.


 


    Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their
    revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry.
    Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to
    achieve profitability, they may sell hard drives at lower prices
    and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss over an
    extended period of time while still remaining profitable
    overall. In addition, if these competitors can increase sales of
    non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit
    from selling their hard drives at lower prices. Our operating
    results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully
    compete with the pricing by these companies.


 



    If we
    fail to qualify our products with our customers or if product
    life cycles lengthen, it may have a significant adverse impact
    on our sales and margins.


 


    We regularly engage in new product qualification with our
    customers. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing,
    failures or delays in the qualification process can result in
    delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused
    by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation
    product, or lost sales to that customer until the next
    generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a
    product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited
    number of high volume OEMs, which continue to consolidate their
    share of the storage markets. Likewise, if product life cycles
    lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait
    before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a
    customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect
    declining gross margins on our current generation products as a
    result of competitive pressures.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to product defects, which could result
    in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in
    excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than
    anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability
    limitations.


 


    We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to
    five years. We test our hard drives in our manufacturing
    facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no
    assurance that our testing will reveal latent



    
    22



Table of Contents




    defects in our products, which may not become apparent until
    after the products have been sold into the market. Accordingly,
    there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could
    require a product recall. Product recalls can be expensive to
    implement and, if a product recall occurs during the
    product’s warranty period, we may be required to replace
    the defective product. In addition, a product recall may damage
    our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market
    share with our customers, including our OEM and ODM customers.


 


    Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions
    of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper
    installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the
    possession of someone other than us. We record an accrual for
    estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We
    may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty
    provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues
    related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses
    are significant, it could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and operating results.


 



    A
    competitive cost structure is critical to our operating results,
    and increased costs may adversely affect our operating
    margin.


 


    A competitive cost structure for our products, including
    critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the
    success of our business, and our operating results depend on our
    ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and
    established products. If our competitors are able to achieve a
    lower cost structure that we are unable to match, we could be at
    a competitive disadvantage to those competitors.


 



    Shortages
    of commodity materials, price volatility, or use by other
    industries of materials used in the hard drive industry, may
    increase our cost structure.


 


    Increases in the cost for certain commodity materials may
    increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives
    and key components. Shortages of materials such as stainless
    steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium or platinum
    increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if
    we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs.
    For example, perpendicular recording technology requires
    increased usage of precious metals such as ruthenium and
    platinum, the price of which may continue to be volatile, which
    could adversely affect our operating margins. Furthermore, if
    other high volume industries increase their demand for materials
    such as these, our costs may further increase, which could have
    an adverse effect on our operating margins. The volatility in
    the cost of oil also affects our transportation costs and may
    result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these
    increased costs through to our customers.


 



    If we
    fail to maintain effective relationships with our major
    component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at
    risk and our profitability could suffer.


 


    We make most of our own heads and magnetic media for some of our
    product families; however, we do not manufacture many of the
    component parts used in our hard drives. As a result, the
    success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to
    and integrate parts from reliable component suppliers. To do so,
    we must effectively manage our relationships with our major
    component suppliers. We must also effectively integrate
    different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which
    employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example,
    feasible combinations of heads and magnetic media components.
    For example, in August 2003, we settled litigation with a
    supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel
    devices for our hard drives. As a result of the disputes that
    gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until
    another supplier’s read channel devices could be designed
    into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic
    component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Violation
    of labor or environmental laws and practices by our suppliers or
    sub-suppliers
    could harm our business.


 


    We expect our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable
    laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws,
    and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of
    conduct. While our internal operating guidelines promote ethical
    business practices, we do not control our suppliers or
    sub-suppliers
    or their labor or environmental practices. The violation of
    labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers or
    sub-suppliers,
    or divergence of a supplier’s or
    sub-supplier’s
    labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted
    as ethical in the U.S., could harm our business by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product
    components;






    
    23



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    damaging our reputation;




 



     
        • 

    
    forcing us to find alternate component sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing demand for our products (for example, through a
    consumer boycott); or




 



     
        • 

    
    exposing us to potential liability for our supplier’s or
    sub-supplier’s
    wrongdoings.





 



    Dependence
    on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and
    manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or
    increased costs.


 


    Certain components are available from a limited number of
    suppliers, and we are sole sourced with some of these suppliers
    on certain products. Because we depend on a limited number of
    suppliers for certain product components and manufacturing
    equipment, each of the following could significantly harm our
    operating results:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an unwillingness of a supplier to supply such components or
    equipment to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    an increase in the cost of such components or equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    an extended shortage of required components or equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidation of key suppliers, such as the acquisition of
    Brilliant Manufacturing Limited by Nidec Corporation, the
    acquisition of Agere Systems Inc. by LSI Corporation, the
    acquisition of Infineon Technologies’ hard drive
    semiconductor business by LSI Corporation, the acquisition of
    Alps Electric Co. Ltd.’s magnetic device division’s
    assets and related intellectual property by TDK Corp, and the
    acquisition of Magnecomp Precision Technology Public Company
    Limited by TDK Corp;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure of a key supplier’s business process;




 



     
        • 

    
    a key supplier’s or
    sub-supplier’s
    inability to access credit necessary to operate its
    business; or




 



     
        • 

    
    failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an
    independent merchant supplier, to adjust to market conditions,
    or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements.





 



    If
    components and equipment that we use are available from only a
    limited number of suppliers or are in short supply, it may
    negatively impact our production and cause us to lose
    revenue.


 


    Our future operating results may also depend substantially on
    our suppliers’ ability to timely qualify their components
    in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these
    components in sufficient volumes to meet our production
    requirements. A number of the components that we use are
    available from only a single or limited number of qualified
    suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. In
    addition, some of the components (or component types) used in
    our products are used in other devices, such as mobile
    telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant
    simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or
    component type) from several high volume industries resulting in
    a supply reduction, if a component is otherwise in short supply,
    or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a
    component, we may experience delays or increased costs in
    obtaining that component. If we are unable to obtain sufficient
    quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic
    components, or other necessary components, we may experience
    production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. If a
    component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss
    of revenue.


 


    In addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or
    testing processes is available only from a limited number of
    suppliers. Some of this equipment uses materials that at times
    could be in short supply. If these materials are not available,
    or are not available in the quantities we require for our
    manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture
    our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant
    loss of revenue.


 



    Contractual
    commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying
    increased charges and cash advances for such components or may
    cause us to have inadequate or excess component
    inventory.


 


    To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide
    significant lead times when buying components which may subject
    us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of
    technology transitions or changes in our component needs. In
    addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual
    commitments with component suppliers



    
    24



Table of Contents




    in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those
    components and enable us to purchase such components at
    favorable prices. Some of these commitments may require us to
    buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make
    significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these
    commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or
    stabilization of the supply of such components. Furthermore, as
    a result of the current negative worldwide economic conditions,
    our ability to forecast our requirements for these components
    has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk
    that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply
    requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess
    component inventory and adversely affect our operating results
    and increase our operating costs.


 



    Failure
    by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and
    manufacture components, technology or production equipment for
    our products may adversely affect our operations.


 


    We rely on suppliers for various component parts that we
    integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves,
    such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions.
    Likewise, we rely on suppliers for certain technology and
    equipment necessary for advanced development technology for
    future products. Some of these components, and most of this
    technology and production equipment, must be specifically
    designed to be compatible for use in our products or for
    developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only
    available from a limited number of suppliers, some of with whom
    we are sole sourced. We are therefore dependent on these
    suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate
    engineering resources to develop components that can be
    successfully integrated with our products, and technology and
    production equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture
    our next-generation products efficiently. The failure of these
    suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture
    components that can be integrated into our products or
    technology and production equipment that can be used to develop
    or manufacture next generation products may cause us to
    experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment
    of hard drive products, our expansion into new technology and
    markets, or our ability to remain competitive with alternative
    storage technologies, therefore adversely affecting our business
    and financial results.


 



    There are
    certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset
    utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy
    to vertically integrate our operations.


 


    Our vertical integration of head and magnetic media
    manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating
    structure, as we now manufacture heads and magnetic media for
    use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. Consequently, we
    make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of
    fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated.
    If the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and
    we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head
    or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face
    under-utilization that may impact our operating results. We are
    therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset
    utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of
    utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured
    supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves.


 


    In addition, we may incur additional risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    failure to continue to leverage the integration of our magnetic
    media technology with our head technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs if we are
    unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads or magnetic
    media;




 



     
        • 

    
    third party head or magnetic media suppliers may not continue to
    do business with us or may not do business with us on the same
    terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed;




 



     
        • 

    
    claims that our manufacturing of heads or magnetic media may
    infringe certain intellectual property rights of other
    companies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing
    equipment for our head or magnetic media manufacturing processes
    and replacement parts for such equipment.





 


    If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our
    head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing
    operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our
    revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating
    results.



    
    25



Table of Contents





    If we are
    unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic
    media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability
    to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which
    could materially and adversely affect our business and financial
    results.


 


    Under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a
    substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in some
    of the hard drive products we manufacture. Consequently, we are
    more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts
    and less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media
    technologies developed by other manufacturers. Technology
    transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to
    increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media.
    There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful
    in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing
    heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies.
    We also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic
    media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing
    yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our
    customers’ product needs, or we may encounter quality
    problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. In
    addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply
    without incurring substantial costs which would negatively
    impact our business and financial results.


 



    Changes
    in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial
    results.


 


    If product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new
    technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular
    product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. If
    product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our
    overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of
    which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition,
    shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult
    to recover the cost of product development before the product
    becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of product
    development in the future could adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    If we
    fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to
    increase areal density, we may fail to remain
    competitive.


 


    New products in the hard drive market typically require higher
    areal densities than previous product generations, posing
    formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal
    densities require existing head and magnetic media technology to
    be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data
    on a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products
    during a technology transition increases the likelihood of
    unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high quality
    new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put
    us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these
    results.


 



    A
    fundamental change in recording technology could result in
    significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us
    at a competitive disadvantage.


 


    Historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change
    in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and
    timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new
    technology fails to remain competitive. There are some
    technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane
    (“CPP”), energy assisted magnetic recording, patterned
    magnetic media and other similar potentially breakthrough
    technology, that will represent revolutionary recording
    technologies if they can be implemented by a competitor on a
    commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, which could put
    us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result of these
    technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in
    developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic media, and
    tools to remain competitive. If we fail to successfully
    implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly
    slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we
    may not be able to offer products with capacities that our
    customers desire. For example, new recording technology requires
    changes in the manufacturing process of heads and magnetic
    media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the
    overall availability of magnetic media in the industry.
    Additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of
    integration between heads and magnetic media which may lengthen
    our time of development of hard drives using this technology.


 


    Furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new
    technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to
    ensure our access to components, technology and production
    equipment that accommodate the new technology. For example,
    advanced wafer and magnetic media manufacturing technologies
    have historically been developed for use in the semiconductor
    industry prior to the hard drive industry. However, successful
    implementation of the use of patterned magnetic media with hard
    drive magnetic media currently presents a significant technical
    challenge



    
    26



Table of Contents




    facing the hard drive industry but not the semiconductor
    industry. Therefore, our suppliers may not be willing to
    dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop manufacturing
    equipment for patterned magnetic media prior to a need for the
    equipment in the semiconductor industry. We believe that if
    patterned magnetic media technology is not successfully
    implemented in the hard drive industry, then alternative storage
    technologies like solid-state storage may more rapidly overtake
    hard drives as the preferred storage solution for higher
    capacity storage needs. This result would put us at a
    competitive disadvantage and negatively impact our operating
    results.


 



    The
    difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of
    areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may
    impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost
    reduction.


 


    Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is
    determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal
    density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic
    bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk.
    Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information
    can be stored on a single platter. Historically, we have been
    able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through
    increases in areal density. Increases in areal density mean that
    the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same
    capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost.
    However, because increasing areal density has become more
    difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require
    increases in component costs, and other opportunities to reduce
    costs may not continue at historical rates. Additionally,
    increases in areal density may require us to make further
    capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment
    needed as a result of an increased number of GB per platter. Our
    inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 



    If we do
    not properly manage the technology transitions of our products,
    our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively
    affected.


 


    The storage markets in which we offer our products continuously
    undergo technology transitions which we must anticipate and
    adapt our products to address in a timely manner. For example,
    serial interfaces normally go through cycles in which their
    maximum speeds double. We must effectively manage the transition
    of the features of our products to address these faster
    interface speeds in a timely manner in order to remain
    competitive and cost effective. If we fail to successfully and
    timely manage the transition to faster interface speeds, we may
    be at a competitive disadvantage to other companies that have
    successfully adapted their products in a timely manner and our
    operating results may suffer.


 



    If we
    fail to develop and introduce new hard drives that are
    competitive against alternative storage technologies, our
    business may suffer.


 


    Our success depends in part on our ability to develop and
    introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace
    with competing technologies. Alternative storage technologies
    like solid-state storage, or flash memory technology, have
    helped advance acceptance of “netbooks” in the PC
    market, and have successfully served digital entertainment
    markets for products such as digital cameras, MP3 players, USB
    flash drives and mobile phones that require lower storage
    capacity devices that cannot be economically manufactured using
    hard drive technology. Typically, storage needs for higher
    capacity and performance, with lower
    cost-per-gigabyte,
    have been better served by hard drives. However, advances in
    semiconductor technology have resulted in flash memory emerging
    as a technology that is competitive with hard drives for niche
    high performance needs in advanced digital computing markets
    such as enterprise servers and storage, in spite of the
    associated challenges in the attributes of cost, capacity and
    reliability. Additionally, solid-state storage is produced by
    large semiconductor companies who can sell their products at
    lower prices and operate their solid-state storage business unit
    at a loss while still remaining profitable overall in an attempt
    to gain market share. There can be no assurance that we will be
    successful in anticipating and developing new products for the
    desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE and external storage markets in
    response to solid-state storage, as well as other competing
    technologies. If our hard drive technology fails to offer higher
    capacity, performance and reliability with lower
    cost-per-gigabyte
    than solid-state storage for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE
    and external storage markets, we will be at a competitive
    disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology to
    serve these markets and our business will suffer.



    
    27



Table of Contents





    Spending
    to improve our technology and develop new technology to remain
    competitive may negatively impact our financial
    results.


 


    In attempting to remain competitive, we may need to increase our
    capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate
    model in order to attempt to improve our existing technology and
    develop new technology. Increased investments in technology
    could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with
    demand for our products which would have a negative impact on
    our financial results.


 



    Our head
    manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication
    facility in California and a single slider fabrication and head
    gimbal assembly facility in Thailand, our magnetic media
    operations include three facilities in Malaysia, and our high
    volume hard drive manufacturing operations include facilities in
    Thailand and Malaysia, which subjects us to substantial risk of
    damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are
    disrupted.


 


    We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and
    magnetic media required for the hard drives we manufacture.
    Approximately
    80-90% of
    our requirement for heads is satisfied by wafers fabricated in
    our Fremont, California facility. Wafers are then sent to our
    Thailand facility for slider fabrication and wafer slicing and
    HGA assembly and testing. Additionally, we manufacture the
    majority of our magnetic media and substrates in three
    facilities in Malaysia. Our high volume hard drive manufacturing
    facilities are in Malaysia and Thailand, and the manufacturing
    facilities of many of our suppliers are also in Asia. A fire,
    flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as
    political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that
    adversely affects any of these facilities would significantly
    affect supply of our heads or magnetic media and limit our
    ability to manufacture hard drives, which would result in a
    substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to
    our operating results. Similarly, a localized health risk
    affecting our employees or the staff of our suppliers, such as
    the spread of the Influenza A (H1N1) or a new pandemic
    influenza, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we
    are able to manufacture, which would result in substantial harm
    to our operating results.


 



    Our
    operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to
    optimize the overall quality,
    time-to-market
    and
    time-to-volume
    of new and established products.


 


    To achieve consistent success with our customers, we must
    balance several key attributes such as
    time-to-market,
    time-to-volume,
    quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. Our
    operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    maintain overall quality of products in new and established
    programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our
    customers demand while managing the integration of new and
    established technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall
    specifications or features that our customers may require for
    their business needs;




 



     
        • 

    
    obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products,
    redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    obtain customer qualification of these products on a timely
    basis by meeting all of our customers’ needs for
    performance, quality and features;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain an adequate supply of components required to
    manufacture our products; or




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our
    product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin
    speeds in response to changes in customers’ product demands.





 



    Manufacturing
    and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous
    risks.


 


    We are subject to risks associated with our foreign
    manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    obtaining requisite U.S. and foreign governmental permits
    and approvals;






    
    28



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political instability and civil unrest, such as the recent
    protests and violence in Bangkok, Thailand;




 



     
        • 

    
    limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time
    required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods
    of price declines;




 



     
        • 

    
    higher freight rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    labor problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade restrictions or higher tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    copyright levies or similar fees imposed in European and other
    countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations;




 



     
        • 

    
    increasing labor and overhead costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements
    or treaties with foreign tax authorities.





 



    Terrorist
    attacks may adversely affect our business and operating
    results.


 


    The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war
    or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and
    insurance markets and have significantly increased the
    political, economic and social instability in some of the
    geographic areas in which we operate. Additionally, it is
    uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various
    governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will
    have on shipping costs. Acts of terrorism, either domestically
    or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability.
    To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our
    manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our
    business, operating results and financial condition could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Sudden
    disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an
    impact on our operations.


 


    We ship the majority of our products to our various customers
    via air freight. The sudden unavailability of air cargo
    operations used to ship our products would impair our ability to
    deliver our products in a timely and efficient manner, which
    could adversely impact our operating results. We also ship a
    portion of our product via ocean freight, and events or
    conditions at shipping ports, such as labor difficulties or
    disputes, could also impact our operating results by impairing
    our ability to timely and efficiently deliver these products.


 



    We are
    vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our
    business.


 


    We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among
    other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products,
    fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make
    payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption
    from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures,
    computer viruses, computer
    denial-of-service
    attacks and other events. Our business is also subject to
    break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third
    parties as well as employees. Despite any precautions we may
    take, such problems could result in, among other consequences,
    interruptions in our business, which could harm our reputation
    and financial condition.


 



    If we
    fail to successfully integrate SiliconSystems’ business and
    technology into our operations in a timely manner, it may
    adversely affect our future results.


 


    While we expect our recent acquisition of SiliconSystems, Inc.
    to have only a nominal positive impact on our results in the
    near term, we believe that the acquisition may result in certain
    more significant future benefits, including technology
    efficiencies and synergies. However, we may encounter
    difficulties in the complicated process of integrating
    SiliconSystems’ business and technology into our existing
    operations. If we are not able to quickly and cost-effectively
    integrate SiliconSystems’ business and technology into our
    operations, our current operations may be disrupted and the
    future anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be
    realized fully or at all. Consequently, our future results of
    operations may be adversely affected.



    
    29



Table of Contents





    If we are
    unable to retain or hire key staff and skilled employees our
    business results may suffer.


 


    Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key
    staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely
    difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled
    employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we
    attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the
    storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly
    dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled
    employees as well as attract, integrate and retain new skilled
    employees. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our
    stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our
    ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have
    received equity compensation. This risk increases during periods
    of declining stock price, which may cause many of our key staff
    and skilled employees to lose much of the value of the equity
    compensation that they have received as an incentive to remain
    in our employ and work towards the success of our operations.
    Additionally, because a substantial portion of our key
    employees’ compensation is placed “at risk” and
    linked to the performance of our business, when our operating
    results are negatively impacted by events such as the current
    global economic downturn, we are at a competitive disadvantage
    for retaining and hiring key staff and skilled employees versus
    other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. If we
    are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled
    employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled
    employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our
    key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed.


 



    The
    nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property
    and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of
    significant litigation.


 


    The data storage industry has been characterized by significant
    litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and
    other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and
    other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy
    and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the
    results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in
    adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or
    be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the
    aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition or operating results.


 


    We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices
    of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to
    time. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be
    required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our
    existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology.
    Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly.
    In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against
    us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for
    any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us
    in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued
    barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could
    also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or
    lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement,
    treble damages. Any of these results would increase our costs
    and harm our operating results.


 



    Our
    reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary
    information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients
    of our business could be copied by competitors.


 


    Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary
    nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual
    property such as our process technology. If a competitor is able
    to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite
    the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive
    or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also,
    the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our
    intellectual property to the same extent as do U.S. laws.
    In addition to patent protection of intellectual property
    rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon
    employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and
    contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to
    protect our proprietary information. However, any of our
    registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be
    challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might
    harm our operating results.


 



    The costs
    of compliance with environmental regulation and customers’
    standards of corporate citizenship could cause an increase in
    our operating costs.


 


    We may be subject to various state, federal and international
    laws and regulations governing the environment, including those
    restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic
    products and making producers of those products financially
    responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and
    disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have
    been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate. For
    example, the European Union (“EU”) has



    
    30



Table of Contents




    enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous
    Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment
    (“RoHS”) directive, which prohibits the use of certain
    substances in electronic equipment, and the Waste Electrical and
    Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) directive, which
    obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment
    onto the market in the EU to put a clearly identifiable mark on
    the equipment, register with and report to EU member countries
    regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism
    to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. Similar
    legislation may be enacted in other locations where we
    manufacture or sell our products. We will need to ensure that we
    comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and
    that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws
    and regulations. If we fail to timely comply with the
    legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products,
    which would have a materially adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition and operating results.


 


    In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws
    and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry
    environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct
    required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound
    corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could
    incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject
    to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if
    we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliance
    with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be
    subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and
    damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause
    our financial condition or operating results to suffer.


 



    Fluctuations
    in currency exchange rates as a result of our international
    operations may negatively affect our operating
    results.


 


    Because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs
    are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
    Further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Thai Baht and
    of the Malaysian Ringgit may negatively impact our operating
    results. The Thai Baht is a free floating currency while the
    Malaysian Ringgit exchange rate policy is one of a managed
    float. We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign
    currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering
    into short-term, forward contracts. However, these contracts do
    not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if
    currency controls are put in place. Currently, we hedge the Thai
    Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and British Pound Sterling with
    forward contracts.


 


    If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most
    foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged
    manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion
    of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated.
    Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues
    since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated.


 


    Additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component
    requirements in U.S. dollars from Japanese and other
    non-U.S. based
    vendors. If the U.S. dollar continues to weaken against
    other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may
    increase the price which they charge for their components in
    order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. If this occurs,
    it would have a negative impact on our operating results.


 



    Increases
    in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses
    and an increase in our operating costs.


 


    Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model
    that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as
    ODMs, that provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers.
    Because these subcontractors are generally not as well
    capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor
    model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with
    our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product
    prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as
    we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into
    emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the
    customers in these regions may have relatively short operating
    histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess
    the associated credit risks. Any credit losses we may suffer as
    a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit
    losses from any significant customer, would increase our
    operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating
    results.



    
    31



Table of Contents





    Inaccurate
    projections of demand for our product can cause large
    fluctuations in our quarterly results.


 


    We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in
    the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us
    to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter.
    In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be
    subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of
    other factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major
    customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    our product mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the prices of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing delays or interruptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in the cost of components for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    limited availability of components that we obtain from a single
    or a limited number of suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition and consolidation in the data storage industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to
    technological advances; and




 



     
        • 

    
    availability and rates of transportation.





 



    Rapidly
    changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult
    to predict actual results.


 


    We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and
    assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting.
    The highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly
    changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual
    results may differ significantly from our estimates and
    assumptions. These changes have impacted our financial results
    in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Key
    estimates and assumptions for us include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and
    allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and
    distributors;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of
    cost or market value (net realizable value);




 



     
        • 

    
    reserves for doubtful accounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for product returns;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for warranty costs related to product defects;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits.





 



    The
    market price of our common stock is volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue
    to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may
    significantly affect the market price of our common stock:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements of technological innovations by us or our
    competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of
    sales of our existing products and increase the risk of
    inventory obsolescence;




 



     
        • 

    
    new products introduced by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price
    erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry
    consolidation;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights;






    
    32



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and
    content management, storage and communication industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are
    lower than our previous high growth-rate periods;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating
    specifically to us or the hard drive industry in
    general; and




 



     
        • 

    
    macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally.





 


    In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock
    market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from
    time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many
    high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be
    unrelated to the operating performance of the companies.


 


    Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against
    companies after periods of volatility in the market price of
    their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against
    us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such
    matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of
    resources and management’s attention.


 



    Negative
    conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity
    of a portion of our investment portfolio.


 


    Our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities
    totaling $18 million as of July 3, 2009. The negative
    conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some
    investors from liquidating their holdings of auction-rate
    securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale
    has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities.
    If the credit market does not improve, auctions for our invested
    amounts may continue to fail. If an auction fails for securities
    in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or
    all of our auction-rate securities at par should we need or
    desire to access the funds invested in those securities. In the
    event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be
    able to do so until a future auction on these investments is
    successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. If a
    buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at
    par (or current carrying value), we may incur a loss beyond
    losses already recognized by us on these securities. For
    example, during the year ended July 3, 2009, the market
    values of some of the auction-rate securities we owned were
    impacted by the macroeconomic credit market conditions, and as a
    result, we recognized $10 million of
    other-than-temporary
    losses to mark the investments to estimated market value.
    Further, rating downgrades of the security issuer or the
    third-parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust
    the carrying value of these investments through an additional
    impairment charge.


 



    Current
    economic conditions have caused us difficulty in adequately
    protecting our increased cash and short-term investments from
    financial institution failures.


 


    The negative global economic conditions and volatile investment
    markets have caused us to hold more cash, cash equivalents and
    short-term investments than we would hold under normal
    circumstances. Since there has been an overall increase in
    demand for low-risk, U.S. government backed securities with
    a limited supply in the financial marketplace, we face increased
    difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and
    short-term investments from possible sudden and unforeseeable
    failures by banks and other financial institutions. A failure of
    any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed
    FDIC limits could have an adverse impact on our financial
    position.


 



    If our
    internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial
    results or our stock price may be adversely affected.


 


    Our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of
    July 3, 2009, in compliance with Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal control over financial
    reporting was effective. We believe that we currently have
    adequate internal control procedures in place for future
    periods; however, if our internal control over financial
    reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a
    material weakness or significant deficiency in our financial
    reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of
    our financial statements, which may adversely affect our
    financial results or our stock price.


 



    The
    outcome of our ongoing domestic and foreign tax audits may
    negatively impact our operating results.


 


    As we have previously disclosed, we are under examination of
    certain of our fiscal years by the U.S. Internal Revenue
    Service (the “IRS”). Separately, our French subsidiary
    is under examination by the French tax authorities. Although we



    
    33



Table of Contents




    believe our tax positions for the years under review are
    reasonable, the outcomes and timing of these audits are subject
    to significant uncertainty and could result in us having to pay
    amounts to the IRS or French tax authorities in order to resolve
    examination of our tax positions, which could result in an
    increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax
    benefits and may negatively impact our financial position,
    results of operations, net income or cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B