Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    and any of those made in our other reports filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You
    are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of
    this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to
    publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or
    circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the
    occurrence of unanticipated events.




    
    3



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We design, develop, manufacture and sell hard drives. A hard
    drive is a device that uses one or more rotating magnetic disks
    (“magnetic media”) to store and allow fast access to
    data. Hard drives are key components of computers, including
    desktop and notebook computers (“PCs”), data storage
    subsystems and many consumer electronic (“CE”) devices.


 


    We sell our products worldwide to original equipment
    manufacturers (“OEMs”) and original design
    manufacturers (“ODMs”) for use in computer systems,
    subsystems or CE devices, and to distributors, resellers and
    retailers. Our hard drives are used in desktop computers,
    notebook computers, and enterprise applications such as servers,
    workstations, network attached storage, storage area networks
    and video surveillance equipment. Additionally, our hard drives
    are used in CE applications, such as digital video recorders
    (“DVRs”), and satellite and cable set-top boxes
    (“STBs”). We also sell our hard drives as stand-alone
    storage products by integrating them into finished enclosures,
    embedding application software and offering the products as
    WD®-branded

    external storage appliances for personal data backup and
    portable or expanded storage of digital music, photographs,
    video and other digital data.


 


    Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that
    the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the
    device. Our hard drives currently include 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch
    form factor drives, having capacities ranging from 80 gigabytes
    (“GB”) to 2 terabytes (“TB”), nominal
    rotation speeds up to 10,000 revolutions per minute
    (“RPM”), and offer interfaces including Enhanced
    Integrated Drive Electronics (“EIDE”), Serial Advanced
    Technology Attachment (“SATA”) and Serial Attached
    SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) (“SAS”). We
    also embed our hard drives into
    WD®-branded

    external storage appliances using interfaces such as Universal
    Serial Bus (“USB”) 2.0, USB 3.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretm

    and Ethernet network connections with capacities of 160 GB up to
    8 TB. In addition, we offer a family of hard drives specifically
    designed to consume substantially less power than standard
    drives, utilizing our WD GreenPower
    Technologytm.



 


    We also design, develop, manufacture and sell solid-state drives
    and media players. A solid-state drive is a storage device that
    uses semiconductor, non-volatile media, rather than magnetic
    media and magnetic heads, to store and allow fast access to
    data. We sell our solid-state drives worldwide to OEMs and
    distributors for use in the embedded systems and client PC
    markets. A media player is a device that connects to a
    user’s television, the Internet
    and/or home
    theater system and plays digital movies, music and photos from
    any of our
    WD®-branded

    external hard drives, other USB mass storage devices or content
    services accessed over the Internet. We sell our media players
    worldwide to resellers and retailers under the
    WD®

    brand.


 


    In November 2009, we entered the traditional enterprise market
    with our WD S25, which is a 2.5-inch, SAS interface hard drive.
    The WD S25 drive provides up to 300 GB of storage suitable for
    both mission-critical enterprise server and enterprise storage
    applications, as well as data centers and large data arrays.


 



    Business
    Strategy


 


    Our business strategy is to provide a broad selection of
    reliable, high quality hard drives at a low total cost of
    ownership and with high efficiency and speed. We believe this
    strategy helps accomplish the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive hard drive
    industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    provides great value to our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    allows us to better achieve consistent financial performance,
    including strong returns on invested capital; and




 



     
        • 

    
    provides continued diversification of our hard drive product set
    and entry into additional markets such as solid-state drives and
    media players.





 


    We have designed our business strategy to accommodate
    significant unit and revenue growth with relatively small
    increases in operating expenses and to consistently achieve high
    asset utilization.




    
    4



Table of Contents






    Industry


 


    We design, develop and manufacture hard drives for the desktop
    and mobile PC, enterprise, CE and external hard drive markets.
    We believe that growth in the sales of hard drives has continued
    to outpace the growth in the sales of all PCs as there were
    approximately 86% more hard drives sold in the market than PCs
    in calendar 2009, based on industry data. We believe the
    following factors continue to drive the growth of hard drive
    sales in addition to PC applications:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consumer use of hard drives for the playing, retention and
    creation of digital content for personal use in the rapidly
    growing CE market;




 



     
        • 

    
    growth of the external hard drive market, permitting the easy
    storage, portability and backup of digital data such as music,
    photographs or video;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased use of multiple hard drives in PCs for data backup and
    expanded storage capacity; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increased use of multiple cost-optimized high performance hard
    drives in data-intensive applications such as Internet-based
    search engines and social media, as well as in hard drive
    intensive hosts for handheld computing devices.





 


    Additionally, we believe that the demand for 2.5-inch hard
    drives has grown from approximately 16% of the overall hard
    drive market in calendar 2003 to 48% of the overall hard drive
    market in calendar 2009, driven by the growing markets for
    notebook and netbook computers, game consoles and external
    storage.


 


    We design, develop and manufacture solid-state drives for the
    embedded systems market. We also develop products with
    solid-state drive technology for emerging consumer and
    commercial computing markets.


 


    We also design, develop and manufacture
    WD®-branded

    media players for the retail channel. We believe there is a
    growing need for consumers to play their personal stored digital
    content and premium content from the Internet on their
    television and home theater system in connection with the
    growing trend in the digitization of rich content and data.


 


    These factors and our product expansion strategy have gradually
    increased our percentage of net revenue derived from non-desktop
    sources. In 2010, 64% of our net revenue was from non-desktop
    sources compared to 62% in 2009 and 56% in 2008.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks relating to the hard drive
    industry, please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Desktop
    PC Market


 


    The desktop PC market consists of personal computers in a form
    intended for regular use at a single location. Individuals use
    desktop computers in homes, businesses and multi-user networks.
    Desktop computers use software applications for word processing,
    spreadsheet, desktop publishing, database management,
    multimedia, entertainment and for other needs. Hard drives store
    the desktop computer operating system and application software,
    as well as the data used by the applications.


 


    We believe that the demand for hard drives in the desktop PC
    market has grown in part due to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    growth in emerging markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    recovery in the commercial market;




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall growth of desktop computer sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their desktop computers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the continuing development of software applications to manage
    and create multimedia content; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto desktop computer hard drives.





 


    We believe several other factors affect the rate of desktop
    computer unit growth, including growth of notebook and netbook
    computers, an increase in first-time buyers of desktop computers
    in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America,





    
    5



Table of Contents





    maturing desktop PC markets in North America and Western Europe,
    and the lengthening of desktop computer replacement cycles.


 



    Mobile PC
    Market


 


    The mobile PC market consists primarily of notebook and netbook
    computers. Individuals use mobile computers both in and away
    from homes and businesses. Like desktop computers, mobile
    computers use software applications for various needs. Hard
    drives store the mobile computer operating system and
    application software, as well as the data used by the
    applications.


 


    We believe that the demand for hard drives in the mobile PC
    market has grown in part due to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the overall growth of mobile sales, including increased
    transition from desktop computers to mobile computers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increased mobility of the workforce;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their mobile computers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the continuing development of software applications to manage
    multimedia content; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto mobile hard drives.





 


    We expect the mobile PC market to continue to grow faster than
    the desktop or enterprise markets in the next five years. As the
    mobile PC market continues to evolve to a higher volume market,
    we believe customers are placing increased emphasis on
    attributes such as quality, availability, reliability,
    execution, flexibility, capacity, performance, power and the
    competitive cost structures of their hard drive suppliers. These
    are the same attributes that have been emphasized for many years
    by customers in the high-volume desktop PC market.


 



    Enterprise
    Market


 


    The enterprise market for hard drives includes workstations,
    servers, network attached storage, storage area networks, other
    computing systems or subsystems, network-communications and
    video surveillance. Hard drives for this market utilize three
    principal interfaces; Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop
    (“FC-AL”); SAS interface technology; or SATA. SATA
    hard drives typically cost customers less than SAS or FC-AL hard
    drives while offering higher capacities and maintaining similar
    reliability, scalability and performance.


 


    We believe that enterprise uses of SATA hard drives will
    continue to increase. During the past few years, a new
    application has emerged with high-capacity SATA hard drives
    augmenting FC-AL and SAS hard drives, tape and optical media.
    This application, popularly referred to as “near-line”
    storage, has created a growth market because SATA hard drives
    access data more quickly than tape or optical solutions, quickly
    retrieve critical
    back-up or
    near-line data and are more cost effective than FC-AL and SAS
    hard drives. The low price per capacity of SATA drives has
    stimulated applications such as video surveillance, video
    editing/broadcasting and medical imaging. These applications
    represent segments of a growing market for high capacity storage
    in non-computing imaging and multimedia professions.


 


    Enterprise-class SATA drives are becoming commonplace for
    IT infrastructure applications such as databases, scientific
    computing, surveillance, web content, web caching, web search
    engines and electronic mail. These applications have become an
    important market for high-capacity SATA hard drives. We believe
    that this market will consume a growing portion of the highest
    capacity hard drives in the next three years.


 


    SATA technology is compatible with SAS technology, enabling
    customers the flexibility of incorporating SATA hard drives in
    SAS storage systems. We believe the units shipped in the
    enterprise-class SATA market was approximately 36% of the
    enterprise hard drive market in calendar 2009.


 


    High-performance server applications, including blade servers,
    are increasingly using 2.5-inch form factor hard drives,
    supplanting traditional 3.5-inch drives. Smaller form factors
    enable more drives per physical space for increased performance,
    higher capacity per square foot and lower power consumption.
    This trend demonstrates the fragmentation of the enterprise hard
    drive market and the need for application-specific
    enterprise-class hard drives.




    
    6



Table of Contents





    There is a trend towards centralization of information storage
    and delivery of Internet-based services through cloud computing.
    Cloud computing delivers shared resources, software and
    information to users on demand on a multitude of devices, such
    as client PCs and handheld computing devices. Most cloud
    computing models consist of services delivered through common
    data centers that utilize servers and hard drives designed for
    the enterprise market. The infrastructure to support cloud
    computing storage needs is driving the demand for both SAS and
    SATA enterprise-class hard drives.


 



    Consumer
    Electronics Market


 


    The use of hard drives in CE products has been a major growth
    area in recent years. Currently, the two largest segments of
    this market are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    video content in applications such as DVRs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    hard drives in game consoles.





 


    DVRs are available for use in home entertainment systems and
    offer enhanced capabilities such as pausing live television,
    simplifying the process of recording and cataloging recorded
    television programs and quickly forwarding or returning to any
    section of a recorded television program. Additionally, digital
    video disk (“DVD”) recorders increasingly incorporate
    hard drives to allow for DVR functionality and faster recording
    of content onto removable DVDs. The market for these products
    favors larger capacity hard drives and continues to grow
    globally. We believe growth in this market will continue to
    build demand for higher capacity hard drives.


 


    Game consoles are increasingly incorporating hard drives to
    improve the user experience. Hard drive technology enables users
    to save games, movies, music, pictures and other user generated
    content.


 


    The proliferation in the CE market of more sophisticated mobile
    devices, including smartphones, portable media players and
    tablet computers, is driving the delivery of diverse content
    from hard drive intensive hosts. We believe this is one of the
    factors influencing increased sales of
    enterprise-class SATA drives. We also believe that
    multimedia handheld devices, such as video cameras and
    high-resolution still cameras, are enabling consumer production
    of expansive digital content that requires increasing amounts of
    small form-factor hard drive storage, as well as high-capacity
    desktop-class hard drives for editing, manipulation and
    long-term storage of such content.


 



    External
    Hard Drive Market


 


    Most new PC systems include high-speed external interfaces, such
    as USB 2.0, USB 3.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretm

    or Ethernet network connections, that permit users to supplement
    the storage space of their PC systems or home and small office
    networks with the use of external hard drives. Users store
    additional programs or multimedia content, and back up internal
    hard drives with external hard drives, as well as use mobile
    external hard drives for portability and security. External
    storage can often be the easiest, quickest or only way of adding
    additional storage capacity to either a desktop or notebook
    computer. We believe there is an increasing consumer awareness
    of the need and value of securely storing personal digital
    content through backup applications and devices. We believe
    there is a growing need for external storage as a way of
    expanding storage capacity in CE devices such as DVRs. We also
    believe there is a growing need for media players that enable
    consumers to play digital movies and music, view photos, and
    access the Internet, otherwise limited to being viewed on
    computer screens, from USB mass storage devices on their
    television or home theater system.


 



    Solid-State
    Drive Market


 


    The solid-state drive market consists primarily of solid-state
    drives which use semiconductor, non-volatile media that retains
    data even when power is not applied using either single-level
    cell or multilevel cell NAND media.


 


    We believe that the demand for solid-state drives in certain
    markets has grown in part due to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the increasing performance, measured by input/output per second,
    in enterprise applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing premium performance applications in the desktop
    and notebook markets; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing requirements of the embedded systems market for
    high durability and long life cycles.







    
    7



Table of Contents




 


    We expect the solid-state drive market to grow faster on a
    compounded annual growth rate basis than the hard drive market
    over the next four years, but will still remain a small portion
    of the total storage market on a unit basis.


 



    Other
    Market Opportunities


 


    We regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data
    storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve.
    Based on significant investments we made over the last six
    years, we believe we have the technology building blocks to
    increase our overall market penetration and be a full-line hard
    drive supplier. Consistent with our measured and deliberate
    approach to new market entries in the recent past, our approach
    to additional new markets will be based on a careful assessment
    of the risks, rewards, requirements and profit potential of such
    actions.


 



    Products


 


    We offer a broad line of hard drives designed for various
    markets. We market our hard drives under brand names including
    WD
    Caviar®,

    WD RE, WD
    VelociRaptor®,

    WD
    Scorpio®,

    WD
    Elementstm,

    WD AV, WD
    ShareSpacetm,

    WD S25, My
    Passport®,

    My
    Book®,

    and My DVR
    Expandertm.

    These hard drives service the desktop PC, mobile PC, enterprise,
    CE and external hard drive markets, and can be found in products
    including desktop computers, notebook computers, enterprise
    storage, server, workstations, video surveillance equipment,
    networking products, DVRs, STBs and external storage appliances.
    We also offer a line of
    WD®-branded

    media players under the WD
    TVtm

    brand name, as well as a line of solid-state drives under the
    SiliconDrive®

    and
    SiliconEdge®

    brand names.


 



    Desktop
    Hard Drive Products


 


    The hard drives we design for the desktop PC market currently
    consist of 3.5-inch form factor products with capacities ranging
    from 80 GB to 2 TB. These products utilize either the EIDE or
    SATA interfaces, providing high performance while retaining ease
    of use and overall low cost of connection. The type of EIDE
    interface currently used in our hard drives is ATA/100, which
    signifies a burst data transfer rate of 100 megabytes per
    second, which is the maximum specified data transition that can
    be sustained under ideal conditions. The SATA interface
    available in the majority of our hard drives enables burst
    transfer rates of up to 6 gigabits (Gb) per second.


 



    Mobile
    Hard Drive Products


 


    Our hard drives used in mobile products typically include
    2.5-inch form factor products with capacities ranging from 80 GB
    to 1 TB. Unit shipments into the mobile PC market currently
    represents the largest market for hard drives. Our product
    expansion, including a high-performance hard drive spinning at
    7,200 RPM and producing ultra-high capacities for specific
    applications with a three platter platform, has enabled us to
    provide customers with a full-line of 2.5-inch mobile drives and
    helped us enhance our market position in this fast-growing
    market.


 



    Enterprise
    Hard Drive Products


 


    We offer multiple product lines to address enterprise market
    needs, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the WD S25 drive, which provides up to 300 GB of storage
    suitable for both mission-critical enterprise server and
    enterprise storage applications, as well as data centers and
    large data arrays;




 



     
        • 

    
    the WD
    VelociRaptor®

    drive, which is a 600 GB, 10,000 RPM, 2.5-inch enterprise-class
    drive with the SATA interface for enterprise applications
    requiring high performance and high reliability;




 



     
        • 

    
    the
    WD®

    RE family of drives, with capacities ranging from 160 GB to 2
    TB. The
    WD®

    RE family serves the SATA market and has enhanced reliability
    features and ratings when contrasted to our desktop
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    low-power versions of the
    WD®

    RE family of drives featuring WD GreenPower
    Technologytm,

    which reduces power consumption as much as 40 percent
    compared with standard hard drives. Lower power consumption
    reduces total cost of ownership for our customers by cutting
    energy costs and lowering operating temperatures, which
    contributes to longer reliability.





 


    WD S25, WD
    VelociRaptortm

    and
    WD®

    RE drives may be used in, but are not limited to, applications
    such as databases,
    e-commerce
    and super computing in life science, oil and gas and similar
    industries, business records





    
    8



Table of Contents





    management,
    e-mail, file
    serving, web serving, near-line storage, medical records,
    engineering data management, video broadcasting and video
    security. The WD
    VelociRaptortm

    also has been popular for use in the high-end desktop PC market
    for applications including gaming, servers and advanced CAD/CAM
    (computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing) systems.


 



    Consumer
    Electronics Products


 


    We offer a line of hard drives under the
    WD®

    AV brand that are designed for use in products such as DVRs,
    STBs, karaoke systems, multi-function printers and gaming
    systems.
    WD®

    AV drives deliver the characteristics CE manufacturers seek
    most, which are quiet operation, low operating temperature, low
    power consumption specifications, high reliability and optimized
    streaming capabilities. We also offer low-power
    WD®

    AV drive models that feature the WD GreenPower
    Technologytm.

    Lower power consumption in our
    WD®

    AV drives results in cooler operation, which enhances long-term
    reliability. Our WD GreenPower
    Technologytm

    also quiets drive operation, which is an important attribute for
    our CE customers.


 



    Branded
    Products


 


    We sell a broad line of
    WD®-branded

    hard drive-based storage appliances, which are internal drives
    embedded into PC peripheral-style enclosures that have USB 2.0,
    USB 3.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretm

    and Ethernet network connections and include software that
    assists customers with back up, remote access and management of
    digital content. We sell these branded storage appliances, as
    well as related adapters and accessories, through retail store
    fronts, online stores and distributors. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the 3.5-inch hard drive-based My
    Book®

    family of storage appliances, which are designed to reside on
    desktops as PC peripherals, as well as be connected to networks,
    and to simplify storage for mainstream consumers, and offer from
    500 GB to 4 TB of capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    the 3.5-inch My DVR
    Expandertm

    series of external SATA (“eSATA”) and USB 2.0 storage
    appliances, which adds recording time to STBs with DVR
    capability. In addition, My
    Book®

    AV DVR Expander also allows for the transfer and storage of
    videos from certain camcorders;




 



     
        • 

    
    the WD
    ShareSpacetm

    network-attached storage system, which offers capacities as high
    as 8 TB for home office or small office applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    the 2.5-inch hard drive-based My
    Passporttm

    and WD
    Elementstm

    Portable series of USB 2.0 and
    FireWiretm

    storage devices, which, weighing less than one-half of a pound,
    offer from 250 GB to 1 TB of portable storage capacity. In
    addition, My
    Passporttm

    AV also allows for the transfer and storage of videos from
    certain camcorders; and




 



     
        • 

    
    3.5-inch and 2.5-inch internal hard drives packaged with PC
    installation kits under the
    WD®

    brand for retail store sales.





 


    We also sell a line of
    WD®-branded

    media players which are devices that enable users to play
    digital movies, music and photos from any of our
    WD®-branded

    external hard drives, other USB mass storage devices or the
    Internet, on a television or home theater system, independent of
    the PC. Our media players provide rich, high-definition playback
    and navigation up to 1080p, multiple ports to connect to
    multiple mass storage devices and access them simultaneously,
    high-definition multimedia interface ports to connect to the
    highest quality HDTV or home theater system and composite
    outputs to ensure compatibility with virtually all television
    sets.


 



    Solid-State
    Drive Products


 


    We offer a line of solid-state drives under the
    SiliconDrive®

    and WD
    SiliconEdge®

    brands that provide advanced storage technologies for the
    embedded systems and client PC markets. Our
    SiliconDrive®

    product family consists of 2.5-inch, Compact Flash
    (“CF”) and other small form factors with capacities
    ranging from 32 megabytes (“MB”) to 120 GB,
    interfaces that include SATA and Parallel Advanced Technology
    Attachment (“PATA”)/EIDE/CF and read/write speeds of
    up to 100/80 MB per second. Our
    SiliconDrive®

    products address the stringent embedded systems market
    requirements and ensure data integrity, eliminate unscheduled
    downtime, protect application data and software and provide for
    data





    
    9



Table of Contents





    security and protection through our patented and patent-pending
    PowerArmor®,

    SiSMART®,

    SolidStor®,

    SiSecuretm

    and
    LifeESTtm

    technologies. Our WD
    SiliconEdge®

    product family consists of 2.5-inch form factors, with
    capacities ranging from 64 GB to 256 GB, SATA interfaces, and
    read/write speeds of up to 250/170 MB per second. Our WD
    SiliconEdge®

    products are designed for both read-intensive client and
    consumer applications and write-intensive OEM applications. They
    also feature both multi-level cell and single-level cell
    semiconductor media as well as patented and patent-pending
    technologies, such as advanced wear-leveling, error correction
    control, and industry standard performance optimization commands
    such as TRIM and Native Command Queuing to ensure maximum drive
    performance and endurance with easy plug and play compatibility.


 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We devote substantial resources to development of new products
    and improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering
    efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing
    processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective
    and timely manner. Research and development expenses totaled
    $611 million, $509 million and $464 million in
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.


 


    Fiscal 2010 represented the ninth consecutive year of
    substantial growth in our research and development spending to
    support the significant broadening of our product and technology
    portfolios. Consistently over that nine-year period, we grew our
    research and development spending 441% from $113 million in
    fiscal 2001 to $611 million in fiscal 2010. As a result of
    this investment activity, we continue to expand our business
    beyond the desktop PC market into newer markets or markets in
    which we have not previously participated. Such investments have
    allowed us to execute against our strategic objective of revenue
    diversification to address the growth of new applications for
    hard drives and fast-growing new market opportunities.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our development
    of new products, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Technology
    and Product Development


 


    Hard drives record, store and retrieve digital data. Performance
    attributes of hard drives, such as their ability to access and
    transmit data and storage capacity, are currently better than
    removable disks, optical hard drives and tapes, and they are
    more cost-effective than semiconductor technology. The primary
    measures of hard drive performance include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    “Acoustics” — which is the sound power
    emitted during hard drive operation, commonly expressed in
    decibels, and perceived loudness due to sound pressure, commonly
    expressed in sones.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Data transfer rate” — which is the
    sustained rate of data transfer to and from the disk, commonly
    expressed in gigabits per second. One gigabit equals one billion
    bits.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Seek time” — which is the time needed to
    position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface,
    commonly expressed in milliseconds.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Spindle rotation speed” — which is the
    nominal rotation speed of the disks inside the hard drive,
    commonly expressed in RPM or latency. Spindle rotation speeds
    commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200 and 10,000 RPM are sometimes
    approximations.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Storage capacity” — which is the amount of
    data that can be stored on the hard drive, commonly expressed in
    GB or TB. As defined in the hard drive industry, one GB equals
    one billion bytes and one TB equals one trillion bytes. A byte
    is a digital character, typically comprised of eight bits. A bit
    is a binary digit, the smallest unit of information in a digital
    system.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Power Consumption” — which is the amount of
    electricity required to operate the drive, measured in watts.





 


    All of our hard drive products employ similar technology. The
    main components of the hard drive are a Head-Disk-Assembly
    (“HDA”) and a Printed Circuit Board Assembly
    (“PCBA”).


 


    HDA: The HDA includes heads, magnetic media, head positioning
    mechanism (“actuator”) and spindle motor. A rigid base
    and top cover contain these components in a
    contamination-controlled environment. One or more disks
    positioned around a motor-driven spindle hub that rotates the
    disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The disk is made





    
    10



Table of Contents





    up of a smooth substrate on which thin layers of magnetic
    materials are deposited. The head stack assembly
    (“HSA”) is comprised of a magnetic positioner, a
    pivot-arm module, on which the individual heads are mounted.
    Each disk has a head suspended directly above it, which can read
    data from or write data to the spinning disk.


 


    PCBA: The PCBA includes both standard and custom integrated
    circuits, an interface connector to the host computer and a
    power connector. The integrated circuits on the printed circuit
    board typically include a drive interface and a controller. The
    drive interface receives instructions from the host computer,
    while the controller directs the flow of data to or from the
    disks and controls the heads. The location of data on each disk
    is logically maintained in concentric tracks divided into
    sectors. The host computer sends instructions to the controller
    to read data from or write data to the disks, based on logical
    track and sector locations. Guided by instructions from the
    controller, the HSA pivots in an arc across the disk until it
    reaches the selected track of a disk, where the data is recorded
    or retrieved.


 


    Industry-standard interfaces allow the hard drive to communicate
    with the computer. Currently, the primary interfaces for PCs are
    PATA and SATA. The primary interfaces for enterprise systems are
    SATA, and the following, which we refer to as traditional
    enterprise: SCSI, SAS and FC-AL. As computer performance
    continues to improve, the hard drive will need to deliver
    information faster. We believe this will continue to drive the
    transition of the PC industry to higher speed interfaces, such
    as SATA and SAS, to facilitate the higher data transfer rates.
    We currently offer the SATA interface on our WD
    Caviar®,

    WD
    Scorpio®,

    WD®

    RE, WD
    VelociRaptor®

    and
    WD®

    AV hard drive families; the PATA interface on WD
    Caviar®,

    WD
    Scorpio®

    and
    WD®AV

    hard drive families; and the SAS interface on the WD S25 hard
    drive family.


 


    The number of disks and each disk’s areal density (track
    density multiplied by bit density), which is a measure of the
    amount of data that can be stored on the recording surface of
    the disk per unit area, determines storage capacity of the hard
    drive. The higher the areal density, the more information can be
    stored on a single platter. Achieving a given drive capacity
    requires fewer disks and heads as the areal density increases,
    potentially reducing product costs over time through reduced
    component requirements. In September 2009, we began shipping our
    WD
    Caviar®

    Blacktm

    3.5-inch 2 TB drives at 500 GB per platter areal density. In
    March 2010, we began shipping our WD
    Scorpio®

    Bluetm

    2.5-inch 750 GB drives at 375 GB per platter areal density.


 


    Head technology is one of the key components affecting areal
    density. The hard drive industry has transitioned from the use
    of longitudinal magnetic recording (“LMR”) head
    technology for the head writer function to perpendicular
    magnetic recording (“PMR”) technology, which allows
    for significantly higher storage capacities. In addition, the
    industry has made the transition to tunnel-junction magneto
    resistive (“TMR”) technology for the head reader
    function. We have completed the transition to PMR and TMR across
    all of our product platforms.


 


    With the transition to PMR, magnetic media plays a much more
    important role in achieving higher areal density. PMR demands a
    much tighter interaction and matching between head and magnetic
    media designs. We are vertically integrated in the two most
    important technology components of hard drives (heads and
    magnetic media), which has enabled us to achieve a more optimum
    design and utilization of these components.


 


    We invest considerable resources in research and development,
    manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment of head and
    magnetic media components, in order to secure our competitive
    position and cost structure.


 


    Solid-state drives record, store and retrieve digital data
    without any moving parts. Attributes, such as fast read/write
    speeds, low power consumption and robust durability offer
    greater performance than hard drives in some storage
    applications but are currently much more costly per GB and are
    available in much lower capacity points than hard drives. The
    main components of a solid-state drive are the
    system-on-chip
    and semiconductor media. The capacity of a solid-state drive is
    based on the total number of MB or GB of semiconductor media in
    the solid-state drive. Industry-standard storage interface
    protocols, such as SATA, PATA/CF and USB 2.0, allow the
    solid-state drive to communicate with the host system.


 


    The
    WD®

    product lines generally leverage a common platform for various
    products within product families with different capacities to
    serve differing market needs. This platform strategy results in
    commonality of components across different products within
    product families and, in some cases, across product families,
    which reduces exposure to changes in demand, facilitates
    inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs
    through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also
    enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts
    onto successive product models.




    
    11



Table of Contents





    For an additional discussion of risks related to technological
    innovations, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Sales and
    Distribution


 


    We sell our products globally to OEMs, ODMs, distributors and
    retailers. OEMs purchase our products, either directly or
    through a contract manufacturer such as an ODM, and assemble
    them into the computer or CE systems they build. Distributors
    typically sell our products to non-direct customers such as
    small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems
    integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Retailers
    typically sell our products directly to end-users through their
    storefront or online facilities.


 



    Original
    Equipment Manufacturers


 


    Sales to OEMs, which include sales through ODMs, accounted for
    51%, 54% and 51% of our net revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. For 2010 and 2008, no single customer accounted
    for 10% or more of our net revenue. For 2009, sales to Dell Inc.
    accounted for 10% of our net revenue. We believe that our
    success depends on our ability to maintain and improve our
    strong relationships with the leading OEMs.


 


    OEMs evaluate and select their hard drive and solid-state drive
    suppliers based on a number of factors, including quality and
    reliability, storage capacities, performance characteristics,
    price, service and support, ease of doing business and the
    supplier’s long-term financial stability. OEMs typically
    seek to qualify two or more providers for each generation of
    products, and once an OEM has chosen its qualified vendors for a
    given product, it generally will purchase products from those
    vendors for the life of that product. To achieve success with
    OEM qualifications, a supplier must consistently offer products
    featuring leading technology, quality and reliability at
    acceptable capacity. Suppliers must quickly achieve volume
    production of each new generation of high quality and reliable
    hard drives or solid-state drives, requiring access to flexible,
    high-capacity, high-quality manufacturing capabilities.


 


    Many of our OEM customers utilize
    just-in-time
    inventory management processes or supply chain business models
    that combine
    “build-to-order,”
    in which they do not build until there is a firm order, and
    “contract manufacturing,” in which the OEM contracts
    assembly work to a contract manufacturer, such as an ODM, who
    purchases components and assembles the computer based on the
    OEM’s instructions. For certain OEMs, we maintain a base
    stock of finished goods inventory in facilities located near or
    adjacent to the OEM’s operations.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our need to
    adapt to our customers’ business models and maintain
    customer satisfaction, refer to Item 1A of this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Distributors


 


    We use a broad group of distributors to sell our products to
    non-direct customers such as small computer and CE
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, online retailers
    and other resellers. Distributors accounted for approximately
    31%, 26% and 31% of our net revenue for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Distributors generally enter into non-exclusive
    agreements for specific territories with us for the purchase and
    redistribution of our products in those territories. We grant
    our distributors limited price protection.


 



    Retailers


 


    We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers such as computer superstores, warehouse clubs, online
    retailers, and computer electronics stores, and authorize sales
    through distributors to smaller retailers. Retailers accounted
    for approximately 18%, 20% and 18% of our net revenue for 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively. The retail channel complements our
    other sales channels while helping to build brand awareness for
    WD and our products. Retailers supply end-users with our
    products to upgrade their computers, externally store their data
    for backup or mobility purposes and play their stored digital
    content or content accessed over the Internet on their
    television or home theater systems. We grant our retailers
    limited price protection. We also sell our branded products
    through our Web site.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world
    including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific,
    Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which
    include sales to foreign subsidiaries of United States
    (“U.S.”) companies but do not include sales to
    U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 81%,
    80% and 76% of our net revenue for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Sales to international customers may be subject to
    certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations,
    including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For
    an additional discussion regarding the risks related to sales to
    international customers, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 


    For additional information concerning revenue recognition, sales
    by geographic region and major customer information, see
    Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally
    and through outside firms. We target advertising, worldwide
    packaging and marketing materials to various reseller and
    end-user categories. We utilize both consumer media and trade
    publications. We have programs under which we reimburse
    qualified distributors and retailers for certain marketing
    expenditures. We also maintain customer relationships by
    communicating with our resellers and providing end-users with
    information and support through our Web site.


 



    Competition


 


    We compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives for use
    in desktop, notebook, enterprise, CE and external storage
    products. Our competitors in the hard drive market include
    companies such as Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Samsung
    Electronics Co. Ltd., Seagate Technology and Toshiba Corporation.


 


    The hard drive industry is intensely competitive, with hard
    drive suppliers competing for sales to a limited number of major
    customers. Hard drives manufactured by different competitors are
    highly substitutable due to the industry mandate of technical
    form, fit and function standards. Hard drive manufacturers
    compete on the basis of product quality and reliability, storage
    capacity, unit price, product performance, production volume
    capabilities, delivery capability, leadership in
    time-to-market,
    time-to-volume
    and
    time-to-quality,
    service and support and ease of doing business. The relative
    importance of these factors varies by customer and market. We
    believe that we are generally competitive in all of these
    factors.


 


    We believe that there are no substantial barriers for existing
    competitors to offer competing products. Therefore, we believe
    that we cannot differentiate
    WD®

    hard drive products solely on attributes such as storage
    capacity, buffer size or
    time-to-market.
    Accordingly, we differentiate WD by focusing on operational
    excellence, high product quality and reliability, and designing
    and incorporating into our hard drives desirable product
    performance attributes. Such performance attributes include seek
    times, data transfer rates, intelligent caching, failure
    prediction, remote diagnostics, acoustics, error recovery, low
    operating temperature, low power consumption and optimized
    streaming capabilities.


 


    In addition, we differentiate WD by emphasizing non-product
    related attributes, including rapid response to our customers.
    Rapid response requires accelerated design cycles, customer
    delivery, production flexibility and timely service and support,
    which contribute to customer satisfaction. We also rely on the
    strength of the WD brand name with value-added resellers,
    retailers and solution providers to whom we sell our hard drive
    products directly and indirectly. We believe that trust in a
    manufacturer’s reputation, its execution track record and
    the establishment of strategic relationships have become
    important factors in the selection of a hard drive, particularly
    in a rapidly changing technology environment.


 


    Advances in magnetic, optical or other data storage technologies
    could result in competitive products with better performance or
    lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. We monitor
    the advantages, disadvantages and advances of the full array of
    storage technologies on an ongoing basis.


 


    High-speed semiconductor media competes with hard drive products
    in some applications, such as consumer handheld devices and
    portable external storage. Semiconductor media is much faster in
    some applications than magnetic hard drives, but currently is
    not competitive in most applications using 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch
    form factor hard drives from a cost standpoint. Flash memory, a
    non-volatile semiconductor media, is currently much more costly
    and, while it





    
    13



Table of Contents





    has higher “read” performance attributes than hard
    drives, it has lower “write” performance attributes.
    Flash memory could become more competitive in the near future
    for additional applications requiring less storage capacity than
    that provided by hard drives. However, we believe that the
    traditional high-volume computing markets will remain the domain
    of 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch hard drives based on the hard drive
    industry’s attributes of reliability, availability, storage
    capacity and cost.


 


    Our competitors in the external hard drive market include
    companies such as EMC Corporation, Hitachi Global Storage
    Technologies, LaCie S.A., Melco Holdings Inc. and Seagate
    Technology. Our competitors in the solid-state drive market
    include companies such as Intel Corporation, Micron Technology,
    Inc., Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., Smart Modular Technologies,
    Inc. and STEC, Inc. Our competitors in the media player retail
    market include companies such as Apple Inc., EMC Corporation,
    LaCie S.A., Roku, Inc. and Seagate Technology.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to competition,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Seasonality


 


    We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our
    business with higher levels of demand in the first and second
    quarters of our fiscal year. This seasonality is a result of
    consumer spending at the beginning of the school year and during
    the holiday season.


 



    Service
    and Warranty


 


    We generally warrant our newly manufactured products against
    defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from
    the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our
    warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or
    replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries
    in multiple regions, including Africa, Asia Pacific, Australia,
    Europe, India, Latin America, the Middle East and North America,
    to provide various levels of testing, processing
    and/or
    recertification of returned products for our customers.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product
    manufacturing processes, execution skills and human resources to
    continue to be successful and have the ability to grow, as
    necessary, our manufacturing operations. To be competitive, we
    must manufacture high quality hard drives with industry leading
    time-to-volume
    production at competitive unit costs. We strive to maintain
    manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, reliable
    products, and high-quality components that we manufacture
    ourselves, while insisting that our suppliers provide
    high-quality components at competitive prices. The critical
    elements of our hard drive production are high volume and
    utilization, low cost assembly and testing, and establishment
    and maintenance of key supplier relationships. By establishing
    close relationships with our strategic component suppliers, we
    believe we access
    best-of-class
    technology and manufacturing quality. In addition, we believe
    that our sourcing strategy currently enables us to have the
    business flexibility needed to select the highest quality, low
    cost of ownership suppliers as product designs and technologies
    evolve.


 


    Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the
    assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and
    thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean
    room” environment that demands skill in process engineering
    and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs
    of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing
    process consists of modular production units, each of which
    contains a number of work cells.


 


    We manufacture hard drives in Malaysia and Thailand. We
    continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to
    increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease
    manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the
    manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how
    automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and
    reduce manufacturing costs.


 


    We use our wafer fabrication facilities in Fremont, California
    and our slider fabrication facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand, to
    design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and
    head gimbal assemblies (“HGAs”) we include in the hard
    drives we manufacture.




    
    14



Table of Contents





    We have magnetic media and substrate design and manufacturing
    facilities in Malaysia. We also have a magnetic media design and
    manufacturing facility in Singapore. We use these facilities to
    design and manufacture most of the magnetic media and substrates
    that we use in our products.


 


    We leverage the efficiencies of contract manufacturers when
    strategically advantageous.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to manufacturing,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Materials
    and Supplies


 


    The following products are the major components currently used
    in the manufacture of our hard drives:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    magnetic heads and magnetic media;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspensions with related HGAs and HSAs;




 



     
        • 

    
    spindle motors;




 



     
        • 

    
    custom and standard electronics such as
    system-on-chip,
    magnetic media, motor controllers,
    pre-amps and
    printed circuit boards;




 



     
        • 

    
    base and top covers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    magnets and related voice coil motors.





 


    We also use several other components in our hard drives such as
    seals, filters, plastic molded parts, capacitors, resistors,
    connectors and cables.


 


    We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and
    magnetic media required for the hard drives we manufacture. We
    purchase a portion of these components from third party
    suppliers. We acquire all of the remaining components for our
    products from third party suppliers.


 


    The major components used in the manufacture of our solid-state
    drives (the semiconductor media and
    system-on-chip)
    and in our media player (the controller) are acquired from third
    party suppliers.


 


    We generally retain multiple suppliers for each of our component
    requirements but in some instances use sole sources for business
    reasons. We believe that components are generally available.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our component
    supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Backlog


 


    A substantial portion of our orders are generally for shipments
    within 30 to 60 days of the placement of the order. We
    generally negotiate pricing, order lead times, product support
    requirements and other terms and conditions before receiving a
    customer’s first purchase order for a product.
    Customers’ purchase orders typically may be canceled with
    relatively short notice to us, with little or no cost to the
    customer, or modified by customers to provide for delivery at a
    later date. In addition, we make many of our sales to OEMs under
    just-in-time
    delivery contracts that do not generally require firm order
    commitments by the customer until the time of sale. Instead, we
    receive a periodic forecast of requirements from the customer
    and invoice the customer upon shipment of the product from the
    just-in-time
    warehouse. Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a
    particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels
    of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to earlier
    periods.


 



    Patents,
    Licenses and Proprietary Information


 


    We own numerous patents and have many patent applications in
    process. We believe that, although our patents and patent
    applications have considerable value, the successful
    manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily
    upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff.
    Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our
    future success.




    
    15



Table of Contents





    In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that
    our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our
    process technology, is an important factor in our success. We
    rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions
    and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary
    information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that
    competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of
    foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide
    less protection for confidential information than the U.S.


 


    We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties
    to manufacture and sell WD products. We believe that we have
    adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in
    addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete
    successfully in the hard drive industry. For additional
    discussion of risks related to our ownership and use of
    intellectual property, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Environmental
    Regulation


 


    We are subject to a variety of regulations in connection with
    our operations. We believe that we have obtained or are in the
    process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
    operations. For additional discussion of risks related to
    environmental regulation, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Employees


 


    As of July 2, 2010, we employed a total of approximately
    62,500 employees worldwide. This represents an increase in
    headcount of approximately 36% since July 3, 2009 and an
    increase of approximately 25% since June 27, 2008. Many of
    our employees are highly skilled, and our continued success
    depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain such
    employees. Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs,
    which we believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those
    offered by our competitors. We and most of our competitors
    nevertheless have difficulty at times hiring and retaining
    certain skilled employees. We have engaged consultants and
    contract personnel to fill these needs until full-time employees
    could be recruited. We consider our employee relations to be
    good. For additional discussion of risks related to our skilled
    employees, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We maintain an Internet Web site at www.westerndigital.com. Our
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, are available on our Web site at
    www.westerndigital.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with,
    or furnishing of these reports to, the SEC. Any materials we
    file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public
    Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
    20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public
    Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    In addition, the SEC maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
    SEC, including us.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Listed below are all of our executive officers as of
    July 2, 2010, followed by a brief account of their business
    experience during the past five years. Executive officers are
    normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors at a
    meeting of the directors immediately following the Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders. There are no family relationships among
    these officers nor any arrangements or understandings between
    any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer
    was selected.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name


 


    Age


 


    Position



 






    John F. Coyne



 

 


    60

 


 


    President and Chief Executive Officer





    Timothy M. Leyden



 

 


    58

 


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





    Martin W. Finkbeiner



 

 


    51

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Operations





    Raymond M. Bukaty



 

 


    52

 


 


    Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary










    
    16



Table of Contents






 




    Mr. Coyne, 60, has been a director since October 2006. He
    joined us in 1983 and has served in various executive
    capacities. From November 2002 until June 2005, Mr. Coyne
    served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, from June
    2005 until September 2005, he served as Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Operations and from November 2005 until
    June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Operations Officer. Effective June 2006, he was named President
    and Chief Operating Officer. In January 2007, he became
    President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Coyne is a
    director of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.


 


    Mr. Leyden, 58, re-joined us in May 2007 as Executive Vice
    President, Finance, and was promoted to Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer in September 2007. From December
    2001 to May 2007, Mr. Leyden served in senior finance
    capacities at Sage Software Inc. and Sage Software of
    California, subsidiaries of Sage Group PLC, a U.K. public
    company that supplies accounting and business management
    software to small and medium-sized businesses, including as Vice
    President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from December
    2001 to May 2004 and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer from May 2004 to May 2007. Mr. Leyden
    previously served in various worldwide finance, manufacturing
    and information technology capacities with us from 1983 to
    December 2000.


 


    Mr. Finkbeiner, 51, joined us in 1992 and has served in
    various positions in program management, operations,
    engineering, and customer satisfaction. From October 2005
    through November 2009, Mr. Finkbeiner served as Senior Vice
    President, Hard Drive Development. In November 2009 he was
    appointed to the position of Executive Vice President,
    Operations.


 


    Mr. Bukaty, 52, joined us in 1999 as Vice President,
    Corporate Law. He was appointed to Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary in March 2002, and to Senior Vice
    President in January 2004, and assumed his current position as
    Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary in October 2004. In July 2010, Mr. Bukaty
    announced his intention to retire from the Company, effective
    October 1, 2010.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Negative
    or uncertain global economic conditions could result in a
    decrease in our sales and revenue and an increase in our
    operating costs, which could adversely affect our business and
    operating results.


 


    Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could cause
    many of our direct and indirect customers to delay or reduce
    their purchases of our products and systems containing our
    products. In addition, many of our customers in each of the OEM,
    distribution and retail channels rely on credit financing in
    order to purchase our products. If negative conditions in the
    global credit markets prevent our customers’ access to
    credit, product orders in these channels may decrease, which
    could result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers face
    challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or
    otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to
    offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These
    actions could result in reductions in our revenue, increased
    price competition and increased operating costs, which could
    adversely affect our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.


 



    If
    industry demand slows significantly as a result of negative or
    uncertain global economic conditions or otherwise, we may have
    to take steps to align our cost structure with demand, which
    could result in impairment charges and have a negative impact on
    our operating results.


 


    If demand slows significantly as a result of a deterioration in
    economic conditions or otherwise, we may need to execute
    restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with
    softening demand. The occurrence of restructuring activities
    could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which
    could adversely impact our results of operations or financial
    condition.


 



    Negative
    or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that
    we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers’
    accounts receivable, which would adversely affect our financial
    results.


 


    We extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. In
    addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’
    financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our
    credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our
    accounts receivable balances; however, as a result of the recent
    uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, we may
    find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these
    accounts receivable. We could suffer significant losses if a
    customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have
    underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us.





    
    17



Table of Contents





    Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions
    increase the risk that if a customer whose accounts receivable
    we have insured fails, the financial condition of the insurance
    carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated
    such that it cannot cover our loss. A significant loss of an
    accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit
    insurance would have a negative impact on our financial results.


 



    If our
    long-lived assets or goodwill become impaired, it may adversely
    affect our operating results.


 


    Negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in
    circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price
    and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash
    flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the
    carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be
    impaired. If we are required to record a significant charge to
    earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an
    impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill is determined,
    our results of operations will be adversely affected.


 



    Declines
    in average selling prices (“ASPs”) in the hard drive
    industry could adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Historically, the hard drive industry has experienced declining
    ASPs. Our ASPs tend to decline when competitors lower prices as
    a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity,
    liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain
    market share. Our ASPs also decline when there is a shift in the
    mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products
    increase relative to those of higher priced products. When ASPs
    in the hard drive industry decline, our ASPs are also likely to
    decline, which adversely affects our operating results.


 



    If we
    fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets
    for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    The PC industry, which comprises a substantial portion of our
    revenue, is experiencing a shift in demand from 3.5-inch to
    2.5-inch form factor disk drives. As a result, the market for
    2.5-inch form factor drives is becoming increasingly dominated
    by large brand OEM customers. These OEM customers may be able to
    command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms
    of sale. If we are not successful in responding to these changes
    in the market for smaller form factor drives, our business may
    suffer.


 


    In addition, during past economic downturns, as well as over the
    past few years, the consumer market for computers has shifted
    significantly towards lower priced systems, and we therefore
    expect this trend to continue in light of current global
    economic conditions. If we are not able to continue to offer a
    competitively priced hard drive for the low-cost PC market, our
    share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our
    operating results.


 


    The market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of
    devices and products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we,
    that as content increasingly converts to digital technology from
    the older analog technology, the technology of computers and
    consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives
    may be found in many products other than computers, such as
    various CE devices. However, there has also been a recent rapid
    growth in CE devices that do not contain a hard drive (such as
    tablet computers and smartphones). If device-makers are
    successful in achieving customer acceptance of these devices as
    a replacement for traditional computing applications that
    contain hard drives, or if we are not successful in adapting our
    product offerings to include alternative storage solutions that
    address these devices, then demand for our products may
    decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results.


 


    Moreover, some devices such as personal video recorders and
    digital video recorders, or some new PC operating systems which
    allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality and
    therefore greater market differentiation, may require attributes
    not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to
    develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications
    or product features, increasing our overall operational expense
    without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. If we
    are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive
    technology and expertise to develop new products for emerging
    markets such as the CE market, or if we are required to incur
    significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our
    operating results.


 



    Our
    prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable
    end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives.


 


    Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems
    manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to
    existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in
    the past and often has had an exaggerated effect





    
    18



Table of Contents





    on the demand for hard drives in any given period. As a result,
    the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity
    which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense
    price competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may
    be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which
    could result in lower revenue and gross margins.


 



    Our
    failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for
    our products could adversely affect our business and financial
    results or operating efficiencies.


 


    The data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately
    forecasting market and customer demand for its products.
    Accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult
    for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the
    volatility in global economic conditions. The variety and volume
    of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts.
    If our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market
    demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could
    experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases,
    which could impact our financial performance. If our forecasts
    do not meet actual market demand, or if market demand increases
    significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add
    manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy
    customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market
    share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands.


 


    Although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not
    generally obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. Sales
    volumes in the distribution and retail channels are volatile and
    harder to predict than sales to our OEM or ODM customers. We
    consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and
    our inventory requirements. If we fail to accurately forecast
    our customers’ product demands, we may have inadequate or
    excess inventory of our products or components, which could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 


    In order to efficiently and timely meet the demands of many of
    our OEM customers, we position our products in multiple
    strategic locations based on the amounts forecasted by such
    customers. If an OEM customer’s actual product demands
    decrease significantly from its forecast, then we may incur
    additional costs in relocating the products that have not been
    purchased by the OEM. This could result in a delay in our
    product sales and an increase in our operating costs, which may
    negatively impact our operating results.


 



    Our entry
    into additional storage markets increases the complexity of our
    business, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our
    business processes as required by these new markets, we will be
    at a competitive disadvantage and our ability to grow will be
    adversely affected.


 


    As we expand our product line to sell into additional storage
    markets, the overall complexity of our business increases at an
    accelerated rate and we must make necessary adaptations to our
    business model to address these complexities. For example, as we
    have previously disclosed, we entered the traditional enterprise
    market in November 2009. In addition to requiring significant
    capital expenditures, our entry into the traditional enterprise
    market adds complexity to our business that requires us to
    effectively adapt our business and management processes to
    address the unique challenges and different requirements of the
    traditional enterprise market, while maintaining a competitive
    operating cost model. If we fail to gain market acceptance in
    the traditional enterprise storage market, we will remain at a
    competitive disadvantage to the companies that succeed in this
    market and our ability to continue our growth will be negatively
    affected.


 



    Our
    customers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue to
    grow at current industry estimates, which may lower the prices
    our customers are willing to pay for new products or put us at a
    disadvantage to competing technologies.


 


    Our customers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue
    to grow at current industry estimates as a result of
    developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights
    management, the emergence of processes such as cloud computing,
    data deduplication and storage virtualization, or otherwise.
    These factors could lead to our customers’ storage capacity
    needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard
    drives or solid-state storage products that we do not offer,
    thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage
    to competing storage technologies. As a result, even with
    increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our ASPs could
    decline, which could adversely affect our operating results.




    
    19



Table of Contents






    Expansion
    into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures
    to increase, and if we do not successfully expand into new
    markets, our business may suffer.


 


    To remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to
    offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. We
    currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch or 2.5-inch hard drives
    for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE and external storage
    markets. However, demand for hard drives may shift to products
    in form factors or with interfaces that our competitors offer
    but which we do not. Expansion into other hard drive markets and
    resulting increases in manufacturing capacity requirements may
    require us to make substantial additional investments in part
    because our operations are largely vertically integrated now
    that we manufacture heads and magnetic media for use in many of
    the hard drives we manufacture. If we fail to successfully
    expand into new hard drive markets with products that we do not
    currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who
    offer these products.


 



    If we
    fail to successfully manage our new product development or new
    market expansion, or if we fail to anticipate the issues
    associated with such development or expansion, our business may
    suffer.


 


    While we continue to develop new products and look to expand
    into new markets, the success of our new product introductions
    depends on a number of factors, including our ability to
    anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these
    new products and new markets, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp;




 



     
        • 

    
    market acceptance;




 



     
        • 

    
    effective management of inventory levels in line with
    anticipated product demand; and




 



     
        • 

    
    quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new
    product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of
    those products.





 


    Further, we need to identify how any of the new markets into
    which we are expanding may have different characteristics from
    the markets in which we currently exist and properly address
    these differences. These characteristics may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demand volume requirements;




 



     
        • 

    
    demand seasonality;




 



     
        • 

    
    product generation development rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    customer concentrations;




 



     
        • 

    
    warranty expectations and product return policies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    cost, performance and compatibility requirements.





 


    Our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate
    and manage these issues associated with our product development
    and market expansion. For example, our branded products are
    designed to attach to and interoperate with a wide variety of PC
    and CE devices, and therefore their functionality relies on the
    manufacturer of such devices, or the associated operating
    systems, enabling the manufacturer’s devices to operate
    with our branded products. If our branded products are not
    compatible with a wide variety of devices, or if device
    manufacturers design their devices so that our branded products
    cannot operate with them, and we cannot quickly and efficiently
    adapt our branded products to address these compatibility
    issues, our business could suffer.


 



    Expanding
    into new markets exposes our business to different seasonal
    demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    The CE and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and
    volume demand cycles as compared to the PC market. By expanding
    into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations
    that are different from, and in addition to, those of the PC
    market. For example, because the primary customer for our
    branded products are individual consumers, this market has
    historically experienced a dramatic increase in demand during
    the winter holiday season. If we do not





    
    20



Table of Contents





    properly adjust our supply to these new demand cycles, we risk
    having excess inventory during periods of low demand and
    insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, which
    could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Selling
    to the retail market is an important part of our business, and
    if consumer spending decreases, or if we fail to maintain and
    grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded
    products, our operating results could suffer.


 


    Selling branded products is an important part of our business,
    and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of
    our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes
    increasingly important to our operating results. If consumer
    spending decreases as a result of the recent uncertainty and
    volatility in global economic conditions, our operating results
    could suffer because of the increased importance of our branded
    products business.


 


    We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers, such as computer superstores and CE stores, and
    authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and
    online resellers. Our current retail customer base is primarily
    in the U.S., Canada and Europe. We are facing increased
    competition from other companies for shelf space at a small
    number of major retailers that have strong buying power and
    pricing leverage. If we are unable to maintain effective working
    relationships with major retailers and online resellers, or if
    we fail to successfully expand into multiple channels, our
    competitive position in the branded product market may suffer
    and our operating results may be adversely affected.


 


    Our success in the retail market also depends on our ability to
    maintain our brand image and corporate reputation. Adverse
    publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product
    quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our
    reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by
    our competitors. In addition, the proliferation of new methods
    of mass communication facilitated by the Internet makes it
    easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect
    our brand image and reputation. If customers no longer maintain
    a preference for
    WD®-brand

    products, our operating results may be adversely affected.


 


    Additionally, we face strong competition in maintaining and
    trying to grow our market share in the retail market,
    particularly because of the relatively low barriers to entry in
    this market. For example, several additional hard drive
    manufacturers have recently disclosed plans to expand into the
    external storage market. As these companies attempt to gain
    market share, we may have difficulty in maintaining or growing
    our market share and there may be increased downward pressure on
    pricing. There can be no assurance that any new products we
    introduce into the retail market will gain market acceptance,
    and if they do not, our operating results could suffer.


 



    Loss of
    market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among
    our customer base, could harm our operating results.


 


    During the year ended July 2, 2010, a large percentage of
    our revenue, 53%, came from sales to our top 10 customers. These
    customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and
    therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands
    on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results
    in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Even if we
    successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer is
    not generally obligated to purchase any minimum volume of
    products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate
    its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain
    strong relationships with our principal customers is essential
    to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of
    our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require
    us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a
    customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key
    customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would
    likely be harmed.


 


    Additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base,
    our customers may be able to command increased leverage in
    negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could
    adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if, as a result
    of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce
    our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could
    decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which
    could result in a decrease in our revenue. Consolidation among
    our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our
    products, replacement of our products by the combined entity
    with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each
    of which could harm our operating results.




    
    21



Table of Contents






    Current
    or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop
    an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match.


 


    It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain
    an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or
    process technology, which may allow them to offer products or
    services that have a significant advantage over the products and
    services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity,
    performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes.
    We may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that
    are able to gain these advantages.


 



    Further
    industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to
    our competitors.


 


    The hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the
    past several years. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance
    their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost
    structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage.
    Additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to
    uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could
    negatively impact our cost structure.


 



    Sales in
    the distribution channel are important to our business, and if
    we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if
    distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating
    results could suffer.


 


    Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers.
    We face significant competition in this channel as a result of
    limited product qualification programs and a significant focus
    on price and availability of product. If we fail to remain
    competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and
    support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors,
    and our operating results could suffer. Additionally, if the
    distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing PC growth
    rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer
    buying preference, or if we experience significant price
    declines due to oversupply in the distribution channel, then our
    operating results would be adversely affected.


 



    The hard
    drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by
    significant shifts in market share among the major
    competitors.


 


    The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases
    in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price
    reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess
    inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition,
    rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and
    profitability of sales of existing products and increase the
    risk of inventory obsolescence. These factors, taken together,
    may result in significant shifts in market share among the
    industry’s major participants. In addition, product recalls
    can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect
    our operating results.


 



    Some of
    our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard
    drive industry may over extended periods of time sell hard
    drives at prices that we cannot profitably match.


 


    Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their
    revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry.
    Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to
    achieve profitability, they may sell hard drives at lower prices
    and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss over an
    extended period of time while still remaining profitable
    overall. In addition, if these competitors can increase sales of
    non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit
    from selling their hard drives at lower prices. Our operating
    results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully
    compete with the pricing by these companies.


 



    If we
    fail to qualify our products with our customers or if product
    life cycles lengthen, it may have a significant adverse impact
    on our sales and margins.


 


    We regularly engage in new product qualification with our
    customers. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing,
    failures or delays in the qualification process can result in
    delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused
    by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation
    product, or lost sales to that customer until the next
    generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a
    product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited
    number of high volume OEMs, which continue to consolidate their
    share of the storage markets. Likewise, if product life cycles
    lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait
    before we have an





    
    22



Table of Contents





    opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which
    could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross
    margins on our current generation products as a result of
    competitive pressures.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to product defects, which could result
    in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to
    warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which
    are greater than anticipated.


 


    We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to
    five years. We test our hard drives in our manufacturing
    facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no
    assurance that our testing will reveal defects in our products,
    which may not become apparent until after the products have been
    sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product
    defects will occur, which could require a product recall.
    Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product
    recall occurs during the product’s warranty period, we may
    be required to replace the defective product. Moreover, there is
    a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure
    clause in a customer agreement. If an epidemic failure occurs,
    we may be required to replace or refund the value of the
    defective product and to cover certain other costs associated
    with the consequences of the epidemic failure. In addition, a
    product recall or epidemic failure may damage our reputation or
    customer relationships, and may cause us to lose market share
    with our customers, including our OEM and ODM customers.


 


    Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions
    of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper
    installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the
    possession of someone other than us. We record an accrual for
    estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We
    may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty
    provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues
    related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a
    product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. If these
    additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect
    our business, financial condition and operating results.


 



    A
    competitive cost structure is critical to our operating results,
    and increased costs may adversely affect our operating
    margin.


 


    A competitive cost structure for our products, including
    critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the
    success of our business, and our operating results depend on our
    ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and
    established products. If our competitors are able to achieve a
    lower cost structure that we are unable to match, we could be at
    a competitive disadvantage to those competitors.


 



    Shortages
    of commodity materials or commodity components, price
    volatility, or use by other industries of materials and
    components used in the hard drive industry, may negatively
    impact our operating results.


 


    Increases in the cost for certain commodity materials or
    commodity components may increase our costs of manufacturing and
    transporting hard drives and key components. Shortages of
    commodity components such as DRAM and NAND flash, or commodity
    materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum,
    nickel, neodymium, ruthenium or platinum, may increase our costs
    and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to
    find ways to mitigate these increased costs. Furthermore, if
    other high volume industries increase their demand for materials
    or components such as these, our costs may further increase,
    which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. In
    addition, shortages in other commodity components and materials
    used in our customers’ products could result in a decrease
    in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our
    operating results. The volatility in the cost of oil also
    affects our transportation costs and may result in lower
    operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs
    through to our customers.


 



    If we
    fail to maintain effective relationships with our major
    component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at
    risk and our profitability could suffer.


 


    While we make most of our own heads and magnetic media for some
    of our product families, we do, according to our sourcing
    strategy, purchase some percentage of our required heads and
    magnetic media from our external supply base. In addition, we
    purchase a majority of our other components, including all
    mechanical and electronic components, from our external supply
    base. For certain components, we use multiple suppliers that
    deploy different technology or processes, and we must
    successfully integrate components from these suppliers in our
    products. Accordingly, we must maintain effective relationships
    with our supply base to source our component needs, develop
    compatible technology, and maintain continuity of supply at
    reasonable costs. If we fail to maintain effective relationships
    with our supply base, or if we fail to





    
    23



Table of Contents





    integrate components from our suppliers effectively, this may
    adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver the best
    products to our customers and our profitability could suffer.
    For example, in August 2003, we settled litigation with a
    supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel
    devices for our hard drives. As a result of the disputes that
    gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until
    another supplier’s read channel devices could be designed
    into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic
    component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Violation
    of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and
    certain other practices by our suppliers could harm our
    business.


 


    We expect our suppliers,
    sub-suppliers
    and
    sub-contractors
    (collectively referred to as “suppliers”) to operate
    in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including
    labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required
    supplier standards of conduct. While our internal operating
    guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control
    our suppliers or their labor or environmental practices. The
    violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our
    suppliers, or divergence of a supplier’s business practices
    from those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S., could harm
    our business by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product
    components;




 



     
        • 

    
    damaging our reputation;




 



     
        • 

    
    forcing us to find alternate component sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing demand for our products (for example, through a
    consumer boycott); or




 



     
        • 

    
    exposing us to potential liability for our supplier’s
    wrongdoings.





 



    Dependence
    on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and
    manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or
    increased costs.


 


    Our future operating results may depend substantially on our
    suppliers’ ability to timely qualify their components in
    our programs, and their ability to supply us with these
    components in sufficient volumes to meet our production
    requirements. A number of the components that we use are
    available from only a single or limited number of qualified
    suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. In
    addition, some of the components (or component types) used in
    our products are used in other devices, such as mobile
    telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant
    simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or
    component type) from several high volume industries resulting in
    a supply reduction, if a component is otherwise in short supply,
    or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a
    component, we may experience delays or increased costs in
    obtaining that component. If we are unable to obtain sufficient
    quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic
    components, or other necessary components, we may experience
    production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. If a
    component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss
    of revenue.


 


    In addition, certain equipment and consumables we use in our
    manufacturing or testing processes are available only from a
    limited number of suppliers. Some of this equipment and
    consumables use materials that at times could be in short
    supply. If these materials are not available, or are not
    available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and
    testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could
    be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue.


 


    Each of the following could also significantly harm our
    operating results:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an unwillingness of a supplier to supply such components or
    equipment to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidation of key suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure of a key supplier’s business process;




 



     
        • 

    
    a key supplier’s or
    sub-supplier’s
    inability to access credit necessary to operate its
    business; or




 



     
        • 

    
    failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an
    independent merchant supplier, or to adjust to market conditions.







    
    24



Table of Contents




 



    Contractual
    commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying
    increased charges and cash advances for such components or may
    cause us to have inadequate or excess component
    inventory.


 


    To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide
    significant lead times when buying components, which may subject
    us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of
    technology transitions or changes in our component needs. In
    addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual
    commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase
    and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to
    purchase such components at favorable prices. Some of these
    commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of
    components from the supplier or make significant cash advances
    to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a
    satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such
    components. Furthermore, as a result of the current global
    economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements
    for these components has become increasingly difficult,
    therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments
    may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause
    us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and
    adversely affect our operating results and increase our
    operating costs.


 



    Failure
    by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and
    manufacture components, technology or production equipment for
    our products may adversely affect our operations.


 


    We rely on suppliers for various component parts that we
    integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves,
    such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions.
    Likewise, we rely on suppliers for certain technology and
    equipment necessary for advanced development technology for
    future products. Some of these components, and most of this
    technology and production equipment, must be specifically
    designed to be compatible for use in our products or for
    developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only
    available from a limited number of suppliers, some of with whom
    we are sole sourced. We are therefore dependent on these
    suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate
    engineering resources to develop components that can be
    successfully integrated with our products, and technology and
    production equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture
    our next-generation products efficiently. The failure of these
    suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture
    components that can be integrated into our products or
    technology and production equipment that can be used to develop
    or manufacture next generation products may cause us to
    experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment
    of hard drive products, our expansion into new technology and
    markets, or our ability to remain competitive with alternative
    storage technologies, therefore adversely affecting our business
    and financial results.


 



    There are
    certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset
    utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy
    to vertically integrate our operations.


 


    Our vertical integration of head and magnetic media
    manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating
    structure, as we now manufacture heads and magnetic media for
    use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. Consequently, we
    make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of
    fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated.
    If the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and
    we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head
    or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face
    under-utilization that may impact our operating results. We are
    therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset
    utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of
    utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured
    supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves.


 


    In addition, we may incur additional risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    failure to continue to leverage the integration of our magnetic
    media technology with our head technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs if we are
    unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads or magnetic
    media;




 



     
        • 

    
    third party head or magnetic media suppliers may not continue to
    do business with us or may not do business with us on the same
    terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed;




 



     
        • 

    
    claims that our manufacturing of heads or magnetic media may
    infringe certain intellectual property rights of other
    companies; and







    
    25



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing
    equipment for our head or magnetic media manufacturing processes
    and replacement parts for such equipment.





 


    If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our
    head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing
    operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our
    revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating
    results.


 



    If we are
    unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic
    media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability
    to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which
    could materially and adversely affect our business and financial
    results.


 


    Under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a
    substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in the
    hard drive products we manufacture. Consequently, we are more
    dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and
    less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media
    technologies developed by other manufacturers. Technology
    transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to
    increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media.
    There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful
    in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing
    heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies.
    We also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic
    media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing
    yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our
    customers’ product needs, or we may encounter quality
    problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. In
    addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply
    without incurring substantial costs which would negatively
    impact our business and financial results.


 



    Changes
    in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial
    results.


 


    If product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new
    technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular
    product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. If
    product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our
    overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of
    which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition,
    shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult
    to recover the cost of product development before the product
    becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of product
    development in the future could adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    If we
    fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to
    increase areal density, we may fail to remain
    competitive.


 


    New products in the hard drive market typically require higher
    areal densities than previous product generations, posing
    formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal
    densities require existing head and magnetic media technology to
    be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more
    data on a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new
    products during a technology transition increases the likelihood
    of unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high
    quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs
    may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that
    achieve these results.


 



    We make
    significant investments in research and development, and
    unsuccessful investments could materially adversely affect our
    business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 


    Over the past several years, our business strategy has been to
    derive a competitive advantage by moving from being a follower
    of new technologies to being a leader in the innovation and
    development of new technologies. This strategy requires us to
    make significant investments in research and development. There
    can be no assurance that these investments will result in viable
    technologies or products, or if these investments do result in
    viable technologies or products, that they will be profitable or
    accepted by the market. Significant investments in unsuccessful
    research and development efforts could materially adversely
    affect our business, financial condition and results of
    operations.


 



    A
    fundamental change in recording technology could result in
    significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us
    at a competitive disadvantage.


 


    Historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change
    in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and
    timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new
    technology fails to remain competitive. There are some
    technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane giant
    magnetoresistance, shingle magnetic





    
    26



Table of Contents





    recording, energy assisted magnetic recording, patterned
    magnetic media, advanced signal processing, advanced format
    technology and other similar potentially breakthrough
    technologies, that will represent revolutionary recording
    technologies if they can be implemented by a competitor on a
    commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, which could put
    us at a competitive disadvantage. As a result of these
    technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in
    developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic media, and
    tools to remain competitive. If we fail to successfully
    implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly
    slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we
    may not be able to offer products with capacities that our
    customers desire. For example, new recording technology requires
    changes in the manufacturing process of heads and magnetic
    media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the
    overall availability of magnetic media in the industry.
    Additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of
    integration between heads and magnetic media which may lengthen
    our time of development of hard drives using this technology.


 


    Furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new
    technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to
    ensure our access to components, technology and production
    equipment that accommodate the new technology. For example,
    advanced wafer and magnetic media manufacturing technologies
    have historically been developed for use in the semiconductor
    industry prior to the hard drive industry. However, successful
    implementation of the use of patterned magnetic media with hard
    drive magnetic media currently presents a significant technical
    challenge facing the hard drive industry but not the
    semiconductor industry. Therefore, our suppliers may not be
    willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop
    manufacturing equipment for patterned magnetic media prior to a
    need for the equipment in the semiconductor industry. We believe
    that if new technologies, such as energy assisted magnetic
    recording, are not successfully implemented in the hard drive
    industry, then alternative storage technologies like solid-state
    storage may more rapidly overtake hard drives as the preferred
    storage solution for higher capacity storage needs. This result
    would put us at a competitive disadvantage and negatively impact
    our operating results.


 



    The
    difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of
    areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may
    impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost
    reduction.


 


    Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is
    determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal
    density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic
    bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk.
    Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information
    can be stored on a single platter. Historically, we have been
    able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through
    increases in areal density. Increases in areal density mean that
    the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same
    capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost.
    However, because increasing areal density has become more
    difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require
    increases in component costs, and other opportunities to reduce
    costs may not continue at historical rates. Additionally,
    increases in areal density may require us to make further
    capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment
    needed as a result of an increased number of GB per platter. Our
    inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 



    If we do
    not properly manage the technology transitions of our products,
    our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively
    affected.


 


    The storage markets in which we offer our products continuously
    undergo technology transitions which we must anticipate and
    adapt our products to address in a timely manner. For example,
    serial interfaces normally go through cycles in which their
    maximum speeds double. We must effectively manage the transition
    of the features of our products to address these faster
    interface speeds in a timely manner in order to remain
    competitive and cost effective. If we fail to successfully and
    timely manage the transition to faster interface speeds, we may
    be at a competitive disadvantage to other companies that have
    successfully adapted their products in a timely manner and our
    operating results may suffer.


 



    If we
    fail to develop and introduce new hard drives that are
    competitive against alternative storage technologies, our
    business may suffer.


 


    Our success depends in part on our ability to develop and
    introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace
    with competing technologies. Alternative storage technologies
    like solid-state storage and flash memory technology have
    successfully served digital entertainment markets for products
    such as digital cameras, MP3 players, USB flash drives and
    mobile phones that require a relatively low amount of storage
    capacity that cannot be economically





    
    27



Table of Contents





    serviced using hard drive technology. Typically, storage needs
    for higher capacity and performance, with lower
    cost-per-gigabyte,
    have been better served by hard drives. However, advances in
    semiconductor technology have resulted in solid-state storage
    emerging as a technology that is competitive with hard drives
    for niche high performance needs in advanced digital computing
    markets such as enterprise servers and storage, in spite of the
    associated challenges in the attributes of cost, capacity and
    reliability. Solid-state storage, which incorporates
    semiconductor media, is produced by large semiconductor
    companies who can then sell their storage products at lower
    prices while still remaining profitable overall. This can help
    them improve their market share at the expense of the
    competition. In addition, these semiconductor companies may
    choose to supply companies like us with semiconductor media at
    prices that make it difficult, if not impossible, for us to
    compete with them on a profitable basis. As a result, there can
    be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and
    developing new products for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE
    and external storage markets in response to solid-state storage,
    as well as other competing technologies. If our hard drive
    technology fails to offer higher capacity, performance and
    reliability with lower
    cost-per-gigabyte
    than solid-state storage for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE
    and external storage markets, we will be at a competitive
    disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology to
    serve these markets and our business will suffer.


 



    Spending
    to improve our technology and develop new technology to remain
    competitive may negatively impact our financial
    results.


 


    In attempting to remain competitive, we may need to increase our
    capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate
    model in order to attempt to improve our existing technology and
    develop new technology. Increased investments in technology
    could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with
    demand for our products which would have a negative impact on
    our financial results.


 



    Our
    manufacturing operations are concentrated in a small number of
    large, purpose-built facilities, which subjects us to
    substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these
    facilities are disrupted.


 


    As a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical
    integration, we conduct our manufacturing operations at large,
    high volume, purpose-built facilities. For example,
    approximately 80% of our requirement for heads is satisfied by
    wafers fabricated in our Fremont, California facility. Also, we
    manufacture the majority of our substrates for magnetic media in
    our Johor, Malaysia facility, and we finish a majority of our
    magnetic media in our facilities in Penang, Malaysia and Tuas,
    Singapore. A majority of our high volume hard drive
    manufacturing operations are conducted in two facilities in
    Thailand, with the balance conducted in our Kuala Lumpur,
    Malaysia facility. The manufacturing facilities of many of our
    suppliers are also in Asia near our facilities. A fire, flood,
    earthquake, tsunami or other disaster, condition or event such
    as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that
    adversely affects any of these facilities would significantly
    affect our ability to manufacture hard drives, which would
    result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a
    substantial harm to our operating results. Similarly, a
    localized health risk affecting our employees at these
    facilities or the staff of our suppliers, such as the spread of
    the Influenza A (H1N1) or a new pandemic influenza, could impair
    the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture,
    which would result in substantial harm to our operating results.


 



    Our
    operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to
    optimize the overall quality,
    time-to-market
    and
    time-to-volume
    of new and established products.


 


    To achieve consistent success with our customers, we must
    balance several key attributes such as
    time-to-market,
    time-to-volume,
    quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. Our
    operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    maintain overall quality of products in new and established
    programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our
    customers demand while managing the integration of new and
    established technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall
    specifications or features that our customers may require for
    their business needs;




 



     
        • 

    
    obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products,
    redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing
    products;







    
    28



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    obtain customer qualification of these products on a timely
    basis by meeting all of our customers’ needs for
    performance, quality and features;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain an adequate supply of components required to
    manufacture our products; or




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our
    product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin
    speeds in response to changes in customers’ product demands.





 



    Manufacturing
    outside the U.S. and marketing our products globally subjects us
    to numerous risks.


 


    We are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing
    operations and global marketing efforts, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    obtaining requisite U.S. and foreign governmental permits
    and approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political instability and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time
    required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods
    of price declines;




 



     
        • 

    
    higher freight rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    labor problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade restrictions or higher tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in European
    and other countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations;




 



     
        • 

    
    increasing labor and overhead costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements
    or treaties with foreign tax authorities.





 



    Terrorist
    attacks may adversely affect our business and operating
    results.


 


    The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war
    or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and
    insurance markets and have significantly increased the
    political, economic and social instability in some of the
    geographic areas in which we operate. Additionally, it is
    uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various
    governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will
    have on shipping costs. Acts of terrorism, either domestically
    or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability.
    To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our
    manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our
    business, operating results and financial condition could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Sudden
    disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an
    impact on our operations.


 


    We generally ship our products to our customers, and receive
    shipments from our suppliers, via air or ocean freight. The
    sudden unavailability or disruption of cargo operations or
    freight lanes, such as due to labor difficulties or disputes,
    severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political
    instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results
    by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our
    products.


 



    We are
    vulnerable to system failures or attacks, which could harm our
    business.


 


    We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among
    other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products,
    fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make
    payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption
    from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures,
    computer viruses, computer
    denial-of-service
    attacks and other events. Our business is also subject to
    break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third
    parties as well as employees. Despite any precautions we may
    take, such problems could result in, among other consequences,
    interruptions in our business, which could harm our reputation
    and financial condition.




    
    29



Table of Contents






    If we
    fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions,
    investment opportunities or other significant transactions, it
    may adversely affect our future results.


 


    As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of,
    investment opportunities in or other significant transactions
    with companies that are complementary to our business. In order
    to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify
    attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully
    complete the transaction, some of which may be large and
    complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of
    the acquired company or employees. We may not be able to
    identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment
    opportunities given the intense competition for these
    transactions. Even if we identify and complete suitable
    corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully
    address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at
    all. If we fail to successfully integrate an acquisition, we may
    not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of the
    acquisition, and our future results of operations could be
    adversely affected.


 



    If we are
    unable to retain or hire key staff and skilled employees our
    business results may suffer.


 


    Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key
    staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely
    difficult to replace. Global competition for skilled employees
    in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to
    move to a position of technology leadership in the storage
    industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on
    our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees as
    well as attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees.
    Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price
    and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to
    retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity
    compensation. Additionally, because a substantial portion of our
    key employees’ compensation is placed “at risk”
    and linked to the performance of our business, when our
    operating results are negatively impacted by global economic
    conditions, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining
    and hiring key staff and skilled employees versus other
    companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. If we are
    unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or
    hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we
    fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our
    operating results would likely be harmed.


 



    The
    nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property
    and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of
    significant litigation.


 


    The data storage industry has been characterized by significant
    litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and
    other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and
    other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy
    and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the
    results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in
    adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or
    be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the
    aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition or operating results.


 


    We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices
    of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to
    time. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be
    required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our
    existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology.
    Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly.
    In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against
    us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for
    any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us
    in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued
    barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could
    also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or
    lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement,
    treble damages. Any of these results would increase our costs
    and harm our operating results.


 



    Our
    reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary
    information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients
    of our business could be copied by competitors.


 


    Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary
    nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual
    property such as our process technology. If a competitor is able
    to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite
    the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive
    or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also,
    the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our
    intellectual property to the same extent as do U.S. laws.
    In addition to patent protection of intellectual property
    rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon
    employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and
    contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to
    protect our proprietary information.





    
    30



Table of Contents





    However, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual
    property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the
    industry, which might harm our operating results.


 



    The costs
    of compliance with state, federal and international legal and
    regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade and
    tax regulations, and customers’ standards of corporate
    citizenship could cause an increase in our operating
    costs.


 


    We may be or become subject to various state, federal and
    international laws and regulations governing our environmental,
    labor, trade and tax practices. These laws and regulations,
    particularly those applicable to our international operations,
    are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. We will
    need to ensure that we and our component suppliers timely comply
    with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase
    in our operating costs. For example, the European Union
    (“EU”) has enacted the Restriction of the Use of
    Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic
    Equipment (“RoHS”) directive, which prohibits the use
    of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the Waste
    Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”)
    directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and
    electronic equipment onto the market in the EU to put a clearly
    identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to
    EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and
    provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the
    equipment. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations
    where we manufacture or sell our products. In addition, climate
    change legislation in the U.S. is a significant topic of
    discussion and may generate federal or other regulatory
    responses in the near future. If we or our component suppliers
    fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers
    may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased
    operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, which
    would have a materially adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition and operating results.


 


    In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws
    and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry
    environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct
    required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound
    corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could
    incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject
    to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if
    we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant
    with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be
    subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and
    damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause
    our financial condition or operating results to suffer.


 



    Fluctuations
    in currency exchange rates as a result of our international
    operations may negatively affect our operating
    results.


 


    Because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our
    revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the
    U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most
    foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged
    manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion
    of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated.
    Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues
    since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated.
    Additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component
    requirements in U.S. dollars from Japanese and other
    non-U.S. based
    vendors. If the U.S. dollar continues to weaken against
    other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may
    increase the price they charge for their components in order to
    maintain an equivalent profit margin. If this occurs, it would
    have a negative impact on our operating results.


 


    Prices for our products are substantially U.S. dollar
    denominated, even when sold to customers that are located
    outside the U.S. Therefore, as a substantial portion of our
    sales are from countries outside the U.S., fluctuations in
    currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the
    U.S. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to
    variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and
    could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. In addition,
    currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our
    products in countries outside the U.S.


 


    We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency
    exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into
    short-term, foreign exchange contracts. However, these contracts
    do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the
    counterparty if currency controls are put in place. Currently,
    we hedge the Thai Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and British
    Pound Sterling with foreign exchange contracts.




    
    31



Table of Contents






    Increases
    in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses
    and an increase in our operating costs.


 


    Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model
    that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as
    ODMs, that provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers.
    Because these subcontractors are generally not as well
    capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor
    model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with
    our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product
    prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as
    we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into
    emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the
    customers with the most success in these regions may have
    relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult
    for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. Any
    credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased
    risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant
    customer, would increase our operating costs, which may
    negatively impact our operating results.


 



    Inaccurate
    projections of demand for our product can cause large
    fluctuations in our quarterly results.


 


    We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in
    the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us
    to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter.
    In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be
    subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of
    other factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major
    customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    our product mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the prices of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing delays or interruptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    limited availability of components that we obtain from a single
    or a limited number of suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition and consolidation in the data storage industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to
    technological advances; and




 



     
        • 

    
    availability and rates of transportation.





 



    Rapidly
    changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult
    to predict actual results.


 


    We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and
    assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting.
    The highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly
    changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual
    results may differ significantly from our estimates and
    assumptions. These changes have impacted our financial results
    in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Key
    estimates and assumptions for us include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and
    allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and
    distributors;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of
    cost or market value (net realizable value);




 



     
        • 

    
    reserves for doubtful accounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for product returns;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for warranty costs related to product defects;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for litigation and other contingencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and




 



     
        • 

    
    expensing of stock-based compensation.







    
    32



Table of Contents




 



    The
    market price of our common stock is volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue
    to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may
    significantly affect the market price of our common stock:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements of technological innovations by us or our
    competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of
    sales of our existing products and increase the risk of
    inventory obsolescence;




 



     
        • 

    
    new products introduced by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price
    erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry
    consolidation;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and
    content management, storage and communication industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are
    lower than our previous high growth-rate periods;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating
    specifically to us or the hard drive industry in
    general; and




 



     
        • 

    
    macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally.





 


    In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock
    market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from
    time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many
    high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be
    unrelated to the operating performance of the companies.


 


    Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against
    companies after periods of volatility in the market price of
    their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against
    us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such
    matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of
    resources and management’s attention.


 



    Current
    economic conditions have caused us difficulty in adequately
    protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from
    financial institution failures.


 


    The uncertain global economic conditions and volatile investment
    markets have caused us to hold more cash and cash equivalents
    than we would hold under normal circumstances. Since there has
    been an overall increase in demand for low-risk,
    U.S. government backed securities with a limited supply in
    the financial marketplace, we face increased difficulty in
    adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents
    from possible sudden and unforeseeable failures by banks and
    other financial institutions. A failure of any of these
    financial institutions in which deposits exceed FDIC limits
    could have an adverse impact on our financial position.


 



    If our
    internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial
    results or our stock price may be adversely affected.


 


    Our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of
    July 2, 2010, in compliance with Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal control over financial
    reporting was effective. We believe that we currently have
    adequate internal control procedures in place for future
    periods; however, if our internal control over financial
    reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a
    material weakness or significant deficiency in our financial
    reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of
    our financial statements, which may adversely affect our
    financial results or our stock price.


 



    From time
    to time we may become subject to income tax audits or similar
    proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and
    expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that
    may negatively impact our operating results.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and certain
    foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax
    liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and
    foreign tax authorities. For example, as we have previously
    disclosed, we are under examination of certain of our fiscal
    years by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the
    “IRS”).





    
    33



Table of Contents





    Although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the
    outcomes and timing of these audits are subject to significant
    uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the
    applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our
    tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of
    our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may
    negatively impact our financial position, results of operations,
    net income or cash flows.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B