Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    and any of those made in our other reports filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You
    are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of
    this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to
    publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or
    circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the
    occurrence of unanticipated events.




    
    3



Table of Contents





 



    PART I


 





    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We are a global provider of solutions for the collection,
    storage, management, protection and use of digital content,
    including audio and video. Our principal products are hard
    drives, which are devices that use one or more rotating magnetic
    disks (“magnetic media”) to store and allow fast
    access to data. Hard drives are currently the primary storage
    medium for digital content. Our hard drives are used in desktop
    and notebook computers, corporate and cloud computing data
    centers, home entertainment equipment and stand-alone consumer
    storage devices. In addition to hard drives, our other products
    include solid-state drives and home entertainment and networking
    products.


 



    Business
    Strategy


 


    Our business strategy is to provide a broad selection of
    reliable, high quality storage devices at a low total cost of
    ownership and with high efficiency and speed. We have designed
    our business strategy to accommodate significant unit and
    revenue growth with relatively small increases in operating
    expenses and to consistently achieve high asset utilization. We
    believe this strategy helps accomplish the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive electronic data
    storage industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    provides value to our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    allows us to better achieve consistent financial performance,
    including strong returns on invested capital; and




 



     
        • 

    
    provides continued diversification of our storage product
    portfolio and entry into additional markets.





 



    Industry


 


    We believe that growth in the unit sales within the electronic
    data storage industry has continued to outpace the growth in the
    unit sales of all personal computers (“PCs”). For
    example, there were approximately 89% more hard drives sold than
    PCs in calendar 2010, based on industry data. We believe the
    following factors continue to drive the unit growth of storage
    device sales in addition to PCs:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consumer use of data storage devices for the playing, retention
    and creation of digital content for personal use;




 



     
        • 

    
    growth of the external storage devices, permitting the easy
    storage, portability and backup of digital data such as music,
    photographs or video; and




 



     
        • 

    
    growth of Internet-based applications, such as social
    networking, and cloud computing which drives the need for
    digital content storage and distribution.





 


    For a discussion of risks relating to the electronic data
    storage industry, please see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Client
    Compute


 


    Client compute storage devices consist of internal hard drives
    and solid-state drives for desktop and mobile PCs. Hard drives
    and solid-state drives store the computer operating system and
    application software, as well as the data used by the
    applications. Desktop PCs are intended for regular use at a
    single location in homes, businesses and multi-user networks.
    Mobile PCs, primarily notebook computers, are used both in and
    away from homes and businesses. We believe that the demand for
    client compute hard drives and solid-state drives will grow
    primarily due to the increasing demand in emerging countries,
    continued corporate refreshes, the proliferation of digital
    content and requirements for increasing performance, small size
    and low power consumption.


 



    Client
    Non-Compute


 


    External Storage.  External storage devices
    supplement the storage space of PC systems for home and small
    office networks, back up data on internal drives and are used
    for portability and security. We believe there is a growing





    
    4



Table of Contents





    consumer need to back up personal digital content and externally
    expand storage capacity. Media players connect to a user’s
    television or home theater system and play digital movies, music
    and photos from an integrated hard drive, USB mass storage
    devices or content services accessed over the Internet. We also
    believe there is a growing need for consumers to play and view
    their personal stored digital content and premium content from
    the Internet on their television and home theater system
    consistent with the growing trend to digitize rich content and
    data.


 


    Consumer Electronics.  Hard drives for CE
    products are primarily used in digital video recorders
    (“DVRs”) and game consoles. DVRs offer greater
    consumer viewing flexibility and enhanced capabilities such as
    pausing live television, simplifying the process of recording
    and cataloging recorded television programs and quickly
    forwarding or returning to any section of a recorded television
    program. Game consoles enable users to save games, movies,
    music, pictures and other user generated content. We believe
    growth in consumer electronics will continue to create demand
    for higher capacity hard drives.
    Solid-state
    drives are also used in consumer electronics products which are
    primarily designed for small form factor, battery powered
    consumer hand held devices, such as tablets and smartphones.


 



    Enterprise


 


    Enterprise storage devices consist of hard drives and
    solid-state drives for mission critical storage applications,
    also referred to as traditional enterprise, and nearline storage
    applications. Mission critical storage applications are
    essential to the operations of an enterprise and require high
    performance, high reliability hard drives and solid-state
    drives. Nearline storage applications are business critical but
    require higher capacity and lower power consumption hard drives.
    Nearline hard drives are more cost effective than traditional
    enterprise hard drives while offering higher capacities and
    maintaining similar reliability, scalability and performance.
    Nearline hard drives have stimulated applications such as video
    surveillance, video editing/broadcasting and medical imaging,
    and are also becoming commonplace for IT infrastructure
    applications such as databases, scientific computing, web
    content, web caching, web search engines and electronic mail. We
    believe that shipments of nearline hard drive units comprised
    approximately 41% of enterprise hard drives in calendar 2010
    compared to 36% in calendar 2009. We believe that nearline hard
    drives will continue to consume a growing portion of the highest
    capacity hard drives in the next three years. Enterprise also
    consists of solid-state drives for use in embedded applications,
    such as network communications, industrial, medical, military
    and aerospace, which require high durability and long life
    cycles.


 


    There is a trend towards centralization of information storage
    and delivery of Internet-based services through cloud computing.
    Cloud computing delivers shared resources, software and
    information to users on demand on a multitude of devices, such
    as client PCs and handheld computing devices. Most cloud
    computing models consist of services delivered through large
    data centers that utilize
    enterprise-class
    servers. The infrastructure to support cloud computing storage
    needs is driving the demand for enterprise-class hard drives and
    solid-state
    drives.


 



    Other
    Market Opportunities


 


    We regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data
    storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve.
    Based on our significant investments, we believe we have the
    technology building blocks to increase our overall market
    penetration and be a full-line data storage solutions supplier.
    Consistent with our measured and deliberate approach to new
    market entries in the recent past, our approach to additional
    new markets will be based on a careful assessment of the risks,
    rewards, requirements and profit potential of such actions.


 



    Products


 


    We offer a broad line of storage devices. Our hard drives
    currently include 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch form factors, capacities
    ranging from 80 gigabytes (“GB”) to 3 terabytes
    (“TB”), nominal rotation speeds up to 10,000
    revolutions per minute (“RPM”), and interfaces such as
    Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (“SATA”) and
    Serial Attached SCSI (Small Computer System Interface)
    (“SAS”). In addition, we offer a family of hard drives
    specifically designed to consume substantially less power than
    standard drives, utilizing our WD GreenPower
    Technologytm.

    Our solid-state drives currently include 2.5-inch and Compact
    Flash form factors, capacities ranging from 1 GB to 256 GB, and
    interfaces such as SATA and PATA.




    
    5



Table of Contents






    Client
    Compute Storage Products


 


    Client compute consists of hard drives and solid-state drives
    for desktop and mobile PCs. Our hard drive client compute unit
    shipments were 151 million, 147 million and
    109 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our
    client compute storage products include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    WD
    Caviar®

    family of hard drives is designed for use in desktop PCs
    requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with
    attributes such as low cost per gigabyte and quiet acoustics;




 



     
        • 

    
    WD
    Scorpio®

    family of hard drives is designed for use in mobile PCs
    requiring high performance, reliability and capacity with
    attributes such as low power consumption for extended battery
    life and cooler operation, quiet acoustics and protection
    against shocks; and




 



     
        • 

    
    WD Silicon
    Edgetm

    family of solid-state drives is designed for both read-intensive
    client/consumer applications and write-intensive original
    equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) applications that
    require high performance and endurance with easy plug and play
    compatibility.





 



    Client
    Non-Compute Storage Products


 


    Client non-compute consists of branded products and consumer
    electronics products. Our hard drive client non-compute unit
    shipments were 46 million, 38 million and
    33 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively.


 


    Branded Products.  Branded products consists of
    hard drives embedded into
    WD®-branded

    external storage appliances with capacities ranging from 250 GB
    to 8 TB and using interfaces such as Universal Serial Bus
    (“USB”) 2.0, USB 3.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretm

    and Ethernet network connections. Certain branded products
    models include software that assists customers with back up,
    remote access and management of digital content. Branded
    products also include our home entertainment and networking
    products. Our branded products include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    My
    Book®

    and WD
    Elementstm

    Desktop family of storage appliances are designed to add
    external capacity to desktops and DVRs, allow for the transfer
    and storage of videos directly from certain camcorders, and
    connect to networks to simplify storage for consumers;




 



     
        • 

    
    My
    Passport®

    and WD
    Elementstm

    Portable family of storage appliances are designed for external
    portability weighing less than one-half of a pound and allow for
    the transfer and storage of videos directly from certain
    camcorders;




 



     
        • 

    
    WD
    ShareSpacetm

    is a network-attached storage system designed for home office or
    small office applications;




 



     
        • 

    
    WD
    TV®

    media players connect to a user’s television or home
    theater system and play digital movies, music and photos from an
    integrated hard drive, network hard drives, any of our
    WD®-branded

    external hard drives, other USB mass storage devices or content
    services accessed over the Internet; and




 



     
        • 

    
    WD
    Livewiretm

    which enables consumers to use their existing electrical outlets
    to extend secure and reliable high-speed Internet connections
    throughout the home.





 


    Consumer Electronics
    Products.  WD®

    AV family of hard drives is designed for use in products such as
    DVRs and audio and video applications.
    WD®

    AV drives deliver the characteristics CE manufacturers seek
    most, which are quiet operation, low operating temperature, low
    power consumption specifications, high reliability and optimized
    streaming capabilities.


 



    Enterprise
    Storage Products


 


    Enterprise consists of hard drives for traditional enterprise
    and nearline storage applications as well as solid-state drives
    for embedded applications. Our hard drive enterprise unit
    shipments were 10 million, 9 million and
    4 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our
    enterprise storage products include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    WD S25 hard drive is designed for mission-critical enterprise
    server and storage applications such as data centers and large
    data arrays;







    
    6



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    WD
    VelociRaptor®

    hard drive is designed for enterprise server and storage
    applications requiring high performance and high reliability.
    This hard drive is also used in the high-end desktop PC market
    for applications including gaming, servers and advanced CAD/CAM
    (computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing) systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    WD®

    RE family of hard drives is designed for nearline storage
    enterprise applications requiring high performance and high
    reliability; and




 



     
        • 

    
    WD
    SiliconDrive®

    family of solid-state drives features fast read/write speeds in
    high capacities and is designed for embedded system OEM
    applications that require high performance and reliability with
    a long product life.





 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We devote substantial resources to the development of new
    products and improvement of existing products. We focus our
    engineering efforts on coordinating our product design and
    manufacturing processes to bring our products to market in a
    cost-effective and timely manner. Research and development
    expenses totaled $703 million, $611 million and
    $509 million in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For a
    discussion of risks related to our development of new products,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Technology
    and Product Development


 


    Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that
    the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the
    device. The primary measures of hard drive performance include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Acoustics — sound power emitted during hard drive
    operation, commonly expressed in decibels, and perceived
    loudness due to sound pressure, commonly expressed in sones;




 



     
        • 

    
    Data transfer rate — sustained rate of data transfer
    to and from the disk, commonly expressed in gigabits per second.
    One gigabit equals one billion bits;




 



     
        • 

    
    Power Consumption — which is the amount of electricity
    required to operate the drive, measured in watts;




 



     
        • 

    
    Seek time — time needed to position the heads over a
    selected track on the disk surface, commonly expressed in
    milliseconds;




 



     
        • 

    
    Spindle rotation speed — nominal rotation speed of the
    disks inside the hard drive, commonly expressed in RPM or
    latency. Spindle rotation speeds commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200
    and 10,000 RPM are sometimes approximations; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Storage capacity — which is the amount of data that
    can be stored on the hard drive, commonly expressed in GB or TB.
    As defined in the hard drive industry, one GB equals one billion
    bytes and one TB equals one trillion bytes. A byte is a digital
    character, typically comprised of eight bits. A bit is a binary
    digit, the smallest unit of information in a digital system.





 


    Industry-standard interfaces allow the drives to communicate
    with the host system. The primary interface for PCs is SATA and
    the primary interfaces for enterprise systems are SAS, Fibre
    Channel Arbitrated Loop (“FC-AL”) and SATA.


 


    The main components of the hard drive are a Head-Disk-Assembly
    (“HDA”) and a Printed Circuit Board Assembly
    (“PCBA”).


 


    The HDA includes heads, magnetic media, head positioning
    mechanism (“actuator”) and spindle motor. A rigid base
    and top cover contain these components in a
    contamination-controlled environment. One or more disks
    positioned around a motor-driven spindle hub that rotates the
    disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The disk is made up of a
    smooth substrate on which thin layers of magnetic materials are
    deposited. The head stack assembly (“HSA”) is
    comprised of a magnetic positioner and a pivot-arm module on
    which the individual heads, including suspension, are mounted.
    Each disk has a head suspended directly above it, which can read
    data from or write data to the spinning disk.


 


    The PCBA includes both standard and custom integrated circuits,
    an interface connector to the host computer and a power
    connector. The integrated circuits on the printed circuit board
    typically include a power device that controls the motor and HSA
    positioner, and a System on Chip (SoC) comprised of a drive
    interface, controller and recording channel.





    
    7



Table of Contents





    The drive interface receives instructions from the host
    computer, while the controller directs the flow of data to or
    from the disks and controls the heads. The location of data on
    each disk is logically maintained in concentric tracks divided
    into sectors. The host computer sends instructions to the
    controller to read data from or write data to the disks, based
    on logical track and sector locations. Guided by instructions
    from the controller, the HSA pivots in an arc across the disk
    until it reaches the selected track of a disk, where the data is
    recorded or retrieved.


 


    The storage capacity of a hard drive is determined by the number
    of disks and each disk’s areal density (track density
    multiplied by bit density), which is a measure of the amount of
    data that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk per
    unit area. Head and magnetic media technologies are two of the
    key components affecting areal density. As areal density
    increases, achieving a given drive capacity potentially reduces
    product costs over time through reduced component requirements.
    We are vertically integrated in these two most important
    technology components of hard drives (heads and magnetic media).
    We also invest considerable resources in research and
    development, manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment
    of head and magnetic media components, in order to secure our
    competitive position and cost structure.


 


    Solid-state drives use semiconductor, non-volatile media, rather
    than magnetic media and magnetic heads, to store and allow fast
    access to data without any moving parts. The capacity of a
    solid-state drive is based on the total number of megabytes
    (“MB”) or GB of semiconductor media in the solid-state
    drive.


 


    Our products generally leverage a common platform for various
    products within product families, and in some cases across
    product families, resulting in the commonality of components
    which reduces our exposure to changes in demand, facilitates
    inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs
    through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also
    enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts
    onto successive product models. For a discussion of risks
    related to technological innovations, see Item 1A of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Sales and
    Distribution


 


    We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world
    including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific,
    Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales, which
    include sales to foreign subsidiaries of United States
    (“U.S.”) companies but do not include sales to
    U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 83%,
    81% and 80% of our net revenue for 2011, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. Sales to international customers may be subject to
    certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations,
    including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For
    a discussion regarding the risks related to sales to
    international customers, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 


    We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally
    and through outside firms utilizing both consumer media and
    trade publications targeting various reseller and end-user
    categories. We also maintain customer relationships through
    direct communication and providing information and support
    through our Web site. In accordance with standard hard drive
    industry practice, we provide distributors and retailers with
    limited price protection and programs under which we reimburse
    certain marketing expenditures. We also provide distributors,
    resellers and OEMs with other sales incentive programs.


 


    Original Equipment Manufacturers.  OEMs
    purchase our products, either directly or through a contract
    manufacturer such as an original design manufacturer
    (“ODM”), and assemble them into the devices they
    build. OEMs typically seek to qualify two or more providers for
    each generation of products and generally will purchase products
    from those vendors for the life of that product. Many of our OEM
    customers utilize
    just-in-time
    inventory management processes or supply chain business models
    that allow for
    “build-to-order,”
    in which they do not build until there is a firm order. For
    certain OEMs, we maintain a base stock of finished goods
    inventory in facilities located near or adjacent to the
    OEM’s operations. We believe that our success depends on
    our ability to maintain and improve our strong relationships
    with the leading OEMs.


 


    Distributors.  We use a broad group of
    distributors to sell our products to non-direct customers such
    as small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems
    integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Distributors
    generally enter into non-exclusive agreements with us for the
    purchase and redistribution of our products in specific
    territories.


 


    Retailers.  We sell our branded products
    directly to a select group of major retailers such as computer
    superstores, warehouse clubs, online retailers, and computer
    electronics stores, and authorize sales through distributors to
    smaller retailers. The retail channel complements our other
    sales channels while helping to build brand awareness for WD and
    our products. We also sell our branded products through our Web
    site.




    
    8



Table of Contents





    For 2011 and 2010, no single customer accounted for 10% or more
    of our net revenue. For 2009, sales to Dell Inc. accounted for
    10% of our net revenue. For a discussion of risks related to our
    customers, refer to Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    For additional information regarding revenue recognition, sales
    by geographic region and major customer information, see
    Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Competition


 


    We compete with manufacturers of hard drives for client compute,
    client non-compute and enterprise applications as well as
    manufacturers of solid-state drives. Our competitors include
    companies such as Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, Intel
    Corporation, Micron Technology, Inc., Samsung Electronics Co.
    Ltd., Seagate Technology, STEC, Inc. and Toshiba Corporation.


 


    The storage industry is intensely competitive with hard drive
    and solid-state suppliers competing for sales to a limited
    number of major customers. Hard drives are highly substitutable
    due to the industry mandate of technical form, fit and function
    standards and we believe there are no substantial barriers for
    existing competitors to offer competing products. Hard drive
    manufacturers compete on the basis of product quality and
    reliability, storage capacity, unit price, product performance,
    production volume capabilities, delivery capability, leadership
    in
    time-to-market,
    time-to-volume
    and
    time-to-quality,
    service and support and ease of doing business. The relative
    importance of these factors varies by customer and market and we
    believe that we are generally competitive in all of these
    factors. Semiconductor media competes with hard drives along a
    range of product attributes. In particular, semiconductor media
    currently offers attractive functionality in consumer handheld
    applications requiring smaller form factors, lower power and
    less storage capacity, such as smartphones and tablets.
    Semiconductor media offers greater performance than hard drives
    in some storage applications. Advances in magnetic, optical or
    other data storage technologies could also result in competitive
    products for storing digital content with better performance or
    lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. We monitor
    the advantages, disadvantages and advances of the full array of
    storage technologies on an ongoing basis.


 


    We differentiate WD by focusing on operational excellence, high
    product quality and reliability, and designing and incorporating
    into our storage devices desirable product performance
    attributes. We also differentiate WD by emphasizing non-product
    related attributes such as availability and rapid response to
    our customers, which requires accelerated design cycles,
    customer delivery, production flexibility and timely service and
    support. We believe that trust in a manufacturer’s
    reputation, its execution track record and the establishment of
    strategic relationships have become important factors in the
    selection of a storage device, particularly in a rapidly
    changing technology environment.


 



    Seasonality


 


    We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our
    business with higher levels of demand in the first and second
    quarters of our fiscal year. This seasonality is a result of
    consumer spending at the beginning of the school year and during
    the holiday season. Seasonality can also be impacted by the
    growth in emerging markets and macroeconomic conditions. For a
    discussion of risks related to seasonality in our business, see
    Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Service
    and Warranty


 


    We generally warrant our newly manufactured products against
    defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from
    the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our
    warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or
    replacement. We have engaged third parties in various countries
    in multiple regions to provide various levels of testing,
    processing
    and/or
    recertification of returned products for our customers. For a
    further discussion of our service and warranty policy, see
    Part II, Item 8, Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed
    Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product
    manufacturing processes, test and tooling, execution skills and
    human resources to continue to be successful and be able to
    grow, as necessary, our manufacturing operations. We strive to
    maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields,
    reliable products, and high-quality components. The critical
    elements of our hard drive production are high volume and
    utilization, low cost





    
    9



Table of Contents





    assembly and testing, and maintaining close relationships with
    our strategic component suppliers to access
    best-of-class
    technology and manufacturing quality.


 


    Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the
    assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and
    thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean
    room” environment that demands skill in process engineering
    and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs
    of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing
    process consists of modular production units, each of which
    contains a number of work cells.


 


    We continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort
    to increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and
    decrease manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which
    steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation
    and how automated manufacturing processes can improve
    productivity and reduce manufacturing costs. We leverage the
    efficiencies of contract manufacturers when strategically
    advantageous. For a discussion of risks related to
    manufacturing, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Materials
    and Supplies


 


    We use a number of components, equipment, goods and services in
    the manufacturing of our products. The key components of our
    hard drives are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    magnetic heads;




 



     
        • 

    
    magnetic media;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspensions with related head gimbal assemblies
    (“HGAs”) and head stack assemblies (“HSAs”);




 



     
        • 

    
    spindle motors;




 



     
        • 

    
    custom and standard electronics such as
    system-on-chip,
    magnetic media, motor controllers,
    pre-amps and
    printed circuit boards;




 



     
        • 

    
    base and top covers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    magnets and related voice coil motors.





 


    We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and
    magnetic media required for our hard drives. We acquire all of
    the remaining components for our products from third party
    suppliers. The major components used in the manufacture of our
    solid-state drives (the semiconductor media and
    system-on-chip)
    and in our media players (the controller) are also acquired from
    third party suppliers. We believe that our sourcing strategy
    currently enables us to have the business flexibility needed to
    select the highest quality, low cost of ownership suppliers as
    product designs and technologies evolve.


 


    We generally retain multiple suppliers for each of our component
    requirements but in some instances use sole sources for business
    reasons. Currently, we believe that there are no major issues
    with component availability. For a discussion of risks related
    to our component supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Backlog


 


    A substantial portion of our orders are generally for shipments
    within 30 to 60 days of the placement of the order.
    Customers’ purchase orders typically may be canceled with
    relatively short notice to us, with little or no cost to the
    customer, or modified by customers to provide for delivery at a
    later date. In addition, for many of our OEMs utilizing
    just-in-time
    inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments
    and instead, receive a periodic forecast of requirements.
    Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a particular
    period is not necessarily indicative of future levels of our
    revenue and profit and may not be comparable to prior periods.


 



    Patents,
    Licenses and Proprietary Information


 


    We own numerous patents and have many patent applications in
    process. We believe that, although our patents and patent
    applications have considerable value, the successful
    manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily
    upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff.
    Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our
    future success.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that
    our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our
    process technology, is an important factor in our success. We
    rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions
    and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary
    information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that
    competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of
    foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide
    less protection for confidential information than the U.S.


 


    We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties
    to manufacture and sell WD products. We believe that we have
    adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in
    addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete
    successfully in the hard drive industry. For discussion of risks
    related to our ownership and use of intellectual property, see
    Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Environmental
    Regulation


 


    We are subject to a variety of regulations in connection with
    our operations. We believe that we have obtained or are in the
    process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
    operations. For a discussion of risks related to environmental
    regulation, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Employees


 


    As of July 1, 2011, we employed a total of
    65,431 employees worldwide, excluding temporary employees
    and contractors. Many of our employees are highly skilled, and
    our continued success depends in part upon our ability to
    attract and retain such employees. Accordingly, we offer
    employee benefit programs which we believe are, in the
    aggregate, competitive with those offered by our competitors. We
    consider our employee relations to be good. For a discussion of
    risks related to our skilled employees, see Item 1A of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We maintain an Internet Web site at www.westerndigital.com. Our
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, as amended, are available on our Web site at
    www.westerndigital.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably
    practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with,
    or furnishing of these reports to, the SEC. Any materials we
    file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public
    Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
    20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public
    Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    In addition, the SEC maintains a Web site at www.sec.gov that
    contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other
    information regarding issuers that file electronically with the
    SEC, including us.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Listed below are all of our executive officers as of
    July 1, 2011, followed by a brief account of their business
    experience during the past five years. Executive officers are
    normally appointed annually by the Board of Directors at a
    meeting of the directors immediately following the Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders. There are no family relationships among
    these officers nor any arrangements or understandings between
    any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer
    was selected.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name


 


    Age


 


    Position



 






    John F. Coyne



 

 


    61

 


 


    President and Chief Executive Officer





    Timothy M. Leyden



 

 


    59

 


 


    Chief Operating Officer





    Wolfgang U. Nickl



 

 


    42

 


 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





    James D. Morris



 

 


    46

 


 


    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Storage Products





    James J. Murphy



 

 


    52

 


 


    Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Sales Operations





    James K. Welsh III



 

 


    54

 


 


    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Branded Products










    
    11



Table of Contents





    Mr. Coyne, 61, has been a director since October 2006. He
    joined us in 1983 and has served in various executive
    capacities. From November 2002 until June 2005, Mr. Coyne
    served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations, from June
    2005 until September 2005, he served as Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Operations and from November 2005 until
    June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
    Operations Officer. Effective June 2006, he was named President
    and Chief Operating Officer. In January 2007, he became
    President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Coyne is a
    director of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.


 


    Mr. Leyden, 59, re-joined us in May 2007 as Executive Vice
    President, Finance, and was promoted to Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer in September 2007. From December
    2001 to May 2007, Mr. Leyden served in senior finance
    capacities at Sage Software Inc. and Sage Software of
    California, subsidiaries of Sage Group PLC, a U.K. public
    company that supplies accounting and business management
    software to small and medium-sized businesses, including as Vice
    President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from December
    2001 to May 2004 and as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief
    Financial Officer from May 2004 to May 2007. Mr. Leyden
    previously served in various worldwide finance, manufacturing
    and information technology capacities with us from 1983 to
    December 2000.


 


    Mr. Nickl, 42, was promoted to Senior Vice President and
    Chief Financial Officer in August 2010. Mr. Nickl had
    previously served as the Company’s Vice President, Finance,
    since October 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Nickl served as Vice
    President, Worldwide Business Operations from May 2005 to
    October 2005, and as Executive Director, Worldwide Business
    Operations from July 2003 to May 2005.


 


    Mr. Morris, 46, re-joined us in October 2006 as Vice
    President and General Manager, Mobile Storage business unit. He
    was promoted to Senior Vice President and General Manager,
    Client Systems, in November 2008, to Senior Vice President
    and General Manager, Storage Products, in November 2009, and to
    Executive Vice President and General Manager, Storage Products,
    in August 2010. Mr. Morris previously served in various
    management capacities with us from 2001 to 2005.


 


    Mr. Murphy, 52, served us as Vice President, Asia Pacific
    from 2003 to 2005, as Vice President, Worldwide Sales from 2005
    to 2007, and as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Sales
    Operations, from 2007 to 2010. He was promoted to Executive Vice
    President, Worldwide Sales and Sales Operations in August 2010.


 


    Mr. Welsh, 54, joined us in 2005 as Vice President and
    General Manager, Branded Products. He was promoted to Senior
    Vice President and General Manager, Branded Products, in 2008,
    and to Executive Vice President and General Manager, Branded
    Products, in August 2010.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    The
    successful completion of our planned acquisition of HGST is
    subject to risks and uncertainties, including obtaining the
    requisite regulatory approvals, and our business may suffer in
    the event we fail to successfully complete the
    acquisition.


 


    In March 2011, we announced our planned acquisition of HGST.
    Completion of the planned acquisition of HGST is subject to
    risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Required Government Approvals.  Completion of
    our planned acquisition of HGST is conditioned upon, among other
    things, obtaining required governmental approvals. While certain
    governmental approvals have been obtained, the transaction
    remains conditioned upon the receipt of approval from the United
    States, the European Union, the People’s Republic of China,
    Japan, Korea and Mexico. There is no assurance that we will
    obtain such approvals or, if obtained, the timing of the
    approvals. We agreed to take any and all actions to obtain the
    requisite governmental approvals in specified jurisdictions
    unless such action would reasonably be expected to materially
    impair the business operations of the combined company absent
    such imposed condition. There can be no assurance that
    conditions or changes will not be imposed and any such
    conditions or changes could have the effect of jeopardizing or
    delaying completion of the planned acquisition or reducing the
    anticipated benefits of the planned acquisition. If we agree to
    any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals
    required to complete the planned acquisition, the business and
    results of operations of the combined company may be adversely
    affected.




 



     
        • 

    
    Termination Fee.  If the acquisition agreement
    is terminated by any party because the acquisition has not
    closed by March 7, 2012, and if, as of the time of such
    termination, certain regulatory and antitrust closing conditions
    have not been satisfied due to the failure to receive any
    required antitrust or competition consent, approval or








    
    12



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    clearance or any action by any certain governmental entities to
    prevent the acquisition for antitrust or competition reasons,
    then we will be required to pay a termination fee of
    $250 million.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Transaction Costs.  We have incurred and will
    continue to incur costs relating to the planned acquisition
    (including significant legal and financial advisory fees) and
    many of these costs are payable by us whether or not the planned
    acquisition is completed.




 



     
        • 

    
    Time and Resources Commitment.  Matters
    relating to the planned acquisition (including integration
    planning) have and will continue to require substantial
    commitments of time and resources by our management team, which
    could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that
    may have been beneficial to us.




 



     
        • 

    
    Financing.  We may fail to complete the planned
    financing for the transaction.





 


    These risks and uncertainties regarding the acquisition may
    adversely affect our relationships with our vendors and
    customers, which could harm our operating results. In addition,
    in the event that the acquisition is not completed or is
    delayed, our business could suffer and the current market price
    of our common stock may decline.


 



    Even if
    we successfully complete our planned acquisition of HGST, we may
    fail to successfully integrate HGST’s business into our
    operations and realize the anticipated benefits from such
    integration on a timely basis, or at all, which could negatively
    impact our business.


 


    The success of our planned acquisition of HGST will depend on
    our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating
    HGST’s business into our operations. Due to legal
    restrictions, we and HGST have conducted, and until the
    completion of the planned acquisition will conduct, only limited
    planning regarding the integration of the two companies
    following the acquisition. Our ongoing business could be
    disrupted and our management’s attention diverted due to
    these integration planning activities and as a result of the
    actual integration of the two companies following the
    acquisition. Following the planned acquisition, we may fail to
    realize the anticipated benefits from this integration on a
    timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the
    following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new
    geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in coordinating geographically separate
    organizations, which may be subject to additional complications
    resulting from being geographically distant from our other
    operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to identify or assess the magnitude of certain
    liabilities we are assuming in the acquisition, which could
    result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure,
    unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes
    due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects
    on our business, operating results or financial condition;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to realize the anticipated increase in our revenues due
    to the acquisition if customers adjust their purchasing
    decisions and allocate more market share to our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties or delays in incorporating acquired technologies or
    products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform
    standards, controls, processes and policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure to successfully manage relationships with our combined
    supplier and customer base;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact of the March 2011 earthquakes, tsunami and related
    events in Japan on HGST’s business, component supply or
    Japan facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties integrating and harmonizing business systems;




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties in modifying HGST’s existing accounting and
    internal control systems to comply with Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to which HGST is not currently
    subject, which could adversely impact the effectiveness of
    internal control over financial reporting for the combined
    company; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the loss of key employees.





 


    If we are not able to successfully integrate HGST’s
    business and technology into our operations, the anticipated
    benefits and efficiencies of the planned acquisition may not be
    realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than





    
    13



Table of Contents





    expected, and our ability to compete, our revenue and gross
    margins and our results of operations may be adversely affected.


 



    The
    integration of HGST may result in significant restructuring
    charges that could adversely affect the financial results of the
    combined company.


 


    The financial results of the combined company may be adversely
    affected by cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges
    incurred in connection with the combination. The amount and
    timing of these possible charges are not yet known. The price of
    our common stock following the acquisition could decline to the
    extent the combined company’s financial results are
    materially affected by these charges.


 



    The
    financing of our planned HGST acquisition will dilute our
    stockholders’ ownership interest in the company, and may
    have an adverse impact on our liquidity, limit our flexibility
    in responding to other business opportunities and increase our
    vulnerability to adverse economic and industry
    conditions.


 


    Our planned acquisition of HGST will be financed by a
    combination of the issuance of additional shares of our common
    stock, the use of a significant amount of our cash on hand and
    the incurrence of a significant amount of indebtedness. The
    issuance of additional shares of our common stock will dilute
    your ownership interest in the company. The use of cash on hand
    and indebtedness to finance the acquisition will reduce our
    liquidity and could cause us to place more reliance on cash flow
    from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt,
    thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for
    operations and development activities. The credit agreement we
    expect to enter into with respect to the indebtedness we will
    incur to finance the planned acquisition contains restrictive
    covenants, including financial covenants requiring us to
    maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet these
    restrictive covenants can be affected by events beyond our
    control. The indebtedness and these restrictive covenants will
    also have the effect, among other things, of impairing our
    ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting our
    flexibility in the conduct of our business and making us more
    vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and
    industry conditions. In addition, a breach of the restrictive
    covenants could result in an event of default under the credit
    agreement we will enter into with respect to the indebtedness,
    which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness
    becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating
    results.


 



    Adverse
    global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could
    harm our business, results of operations and financial
    condition.


 


    Adverse global economic conditions and uncertain conditions in
    the credit market have had, and in the future could have, a
    significant adverse effect on our company and on the storage
    industry as a whole. Some of the risks and uncertainties we face
    as a result of these global economic and credit market
    conditions include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Volatile Demand.  Negative or uncertain global
    economic conditions could cause many of our direct and indirect
    customers to delay or reduce their purchases of our products and
    systems containing our products. In addition, many of our
    customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products. If
    negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our
    customers’ access to credit, product orders may decrease,
    which could result in lower revenue. Likewise, if our suppliers,
    sub-suppliers
    and
    sub-contractors
    (collectively referred to as “suppliers”) face
    challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or
    otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to
    offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. These
    actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased
    operating costs, which could adversely affect our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.




 



     
        • 

    
    Restructuring Activities.  If demand slows
    significantly as a result of a deterioration in economic
    conditions or otherwise, we may need to execute restructuring
    activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand.
    The occurrence of restructuring activities could result in
    impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely
    impact our results of operations or financial condition.




 



     
        • 

    
    Credit Volatility and Loss of Receivables.  We
    extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. In
    addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers’
    financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our
    credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our
    accounts receivable balances. As a result of the








    
    14



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic
    conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be
    able to insure these accounts receivable. We could suffer
    significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we
    have not insured, or have underinsured, fails and is unable to
    pay us. Additionally, negative or uncertain global economic
    conditions increase the risk that if a customer whose accounts
    receivable we have insured fails, the financial condition of the
    insurance carrier for such customer account may have also
    deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. A significant
    loss of an accounts receivable that we cannot recover through
    credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial
    results.





 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Impairment Charges.  Negative or uncertain
    global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such
    as a sustained decline in our stock price and market
    capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such
    that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value
    of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. If we are
    required to record a significant charge to earnings in our
    consolidated financial statements because an impairment of our
    long-lived assets or goodwill is determined, our results of
    operations will be adversely affected.





 



    We
    participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to
    the risk of declining average selling prices (“ASPs”),
    volatile gross margins and significant shifts in market share,
    all of which could adversely affect our operating
    results.


 


    Demand for our hard drives depends in large part on the demand
    for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage
    upgrades to existing systems. The demand for systems has been
    volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on
    the demand for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the
    hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity,
    which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and more
    intense price competition. If more intense price competition
    occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than
    expected, which could result in lower ASPs, revenue and gross
    margins. Our ASPs and gross margins also tend to decline when
    there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower
    priced products increase relative to those of higher priced
    products. In addition, rapid technological changes often reduce
    the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and
    increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. These factors,
    along with others, may result in significant shifts in market
    share among the industry’s major participants.


 



    Our
    failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for
    our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could
    adversely affect our business and financial results or operating
    efficiencies.


 


    The data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately
    forecasting market and customer demand for its products. The
    variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part
    on these forecasts. Accurately forecasting demand has become
    increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers
    in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and a
    recent shift from air to ocean freight in response to increased
    transportation costs, which requires additional lead times. In
    addition, because hard drives are designed to be largely
    substitutable, our demand forecasts may be impacted
    significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. As
    forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our
    forecasts are not in line with demand increases. If our
    forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience
    periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could
    impact our financial performance. If market demand increases
    significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add
    manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy
    customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market
    share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands.


 



    We
    experience significant sales seasonality and cyclicality, which
    could cause our operating results to fluctuate.


 


    Sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer
    electronics tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we
    expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in
    our business as we respond to variations in our customers’
    demand for hard drives. In the desktop, mobile, CE and retail
    markets, seasonality is partially attributable to the increase
    in sales of PCs and CE devices during the
    back-to-school
    and winter holiday seasons. As such, we anticipate that sales of
    our products will continue to be lower during the second half of
    our fiscal year. However, recently we have experienced
    stronger-than-anticipated
    demand partially driven by the increased adoption of sea freight
    in the PC supply chain. In the enterprise market our sales are
    seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles
    of our end users. However, changes in seasonal and cyclical
    patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more
    difficult for us to forecast demand, especially in the current
    macroeconomic environment. Changes in the product or channel mix
    of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns,
    adding complexity in forecasting demand. Seasonality and





    
    15



Table of Contents





    cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock
    price. It is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which
    seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or
    business in future periods because of the rate and
    unpredictability of product transitions and new product
    introductions and macroeconomic conditions.


 



    Our
    customers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue to
    grow at current industry estimates, which may lower the prices
    our customers are willing to pay for our products or put us at a
    disadvantage to competing technologies.


 


    Our customers’ demand for storage capacity may not continue
    to grow at current industry estimates as a result of:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Mobile Devices.  There has been a recent rapid
    growth in CE devices that do not contain a hard drive such as
    tablet computers and smartphones. While tablet computers and
    smartphones provide many of the same capabilities as PCs, the
    extent to which they will displace or materially affect the
    demand for PCs is uncertain. If device-makers are successful in
    achieving customer acceptance of these devices as a replacement
    for traditional computing applications that contain hard drives,
    or if we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to
    include alternative storage solutions that address these
    devices, then demand for our products may decrease.




 



     
        • 

    
    Cloud Computing.  Consumers traditionally have
    stored their data on their PC, often supplemented with personal
    external storage devices. Most businesses also include similar
    local storage as a primary or secondary storage location. This
    storage is typically provided by hard disk drives. Recently,
    cloud computing has emerged whereby applications and data are
    hosted, accessed and processed through a third-party provider
    over a broadband Internet connection, potentially reducing or
    eliminating the need for, among other things, significant
    storage inside the accessing computer. This trend could cause
    the market for disk drives in computers to decline over time,
    which could harm our business to the extent this decline is not
    offset by the sale of our products to customers who provide
    cloud computing services.





 


    Demand for our products also could be negatively impacted by
    developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights
    management, the emergence of processes such as data
    deduplication and storage virtualization, economic conditions,
    and the rate of increase in areal density exceeding the increase
    in our customers’ demand for storage capacity. These
    factors could lead to our customers’ storage capacity needs
    being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives
    or solid-state storage products that we do not offer, thereby
    decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage to
    competing storage technologies. As a result, even with
    increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, if we fail to
    anticipate or timely respond to these developments in the demand
    for storage, our ASPs could decline, which could adversely
    affect our operating results.


 



    Selling
    to the retail market is an important part of our business, and
    if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market
    acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could
    suffer.


 


    Selling branded products is an important part of our business,
    and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of
    our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes
    increasingly important to our operating results. Our success in
    the retail market depends in large part on our ability to
    maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand
    into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple
    channels. Adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or
    allegations of product quality issues, even if false or
    unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers
    to choose products offered by our competitors. In addition, the
    proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated
    by the Internet makes it easier for false or unfounded
    allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation.
    If customers no longer maintain a preference for
    WD®-brand

    products, our operating results may be adversely affected.


 



    Sales in
    the distribution channel are important to our business, and if
    we fail to respond to demand changes in distribution markets or
    if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating
    results could suffer.


 


    Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers.
    We face significant competition in this channel as a result of
    limited product qualification programs and a significant focus
    on price and availability of product. In addition, the PC market
    is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices
    and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to
    the market as complete systems, which could weaken the
    distribution market. If we fail to respond to changes in demand
    in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer.
    Additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of
    a slowing PC growth rate,





    
    16



Table of Contents





    technology transitions or a significant change in consumer
    buying preference, or if we experience significant price
    declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, then
    our operating results would be adversely affected.


 



    Loss of
    market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among
    our customer base, could harm our operating results.


 


    During the year ended July 1, 2011, a large percentage of
    our revenue, 49%, came from sales to our top 10 customers. These
    customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and
    therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands
    on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results
    in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Our ability to
    maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is
    essential to our future performance. If we lose a key customer,
    if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products
    or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce
    costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if
    a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results
    would likely be harmed.


 


    Additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base,
    our customers may be able to command increased leverage in
    negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could
    adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if, as a result
    of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce
    our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could
    decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which
    could result in a decrease in our revenue. Consolidation among
    our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our
    products, replacement of our products by the combined entity
    with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each
    of which could harm our operating results.


 



    Our entry
    into additional storage markets increases the complexity of our
    business, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our
    business processes as required by these new markets, we will be
    at a competitive disadvantage and our ability to grow will be
    adversely affected.


 


    As we expand our product line to sell into additional storage
    markets, the overall complexity of our business increases at an
    accelerated rate and we become subject to different market
    dynamics. The new markets into which we are expanding, or may
    expand, may have different characteristics from the markets in
    which we currently exist. These different characteristics may
    include, among other things, demand volume requirements, demand
    seasonality, product generation development rates, customer
    concentrations, warranty and product return policies and
    performance and compatibility requirements. Our failure to make
    the necessary adaptations to our business model to address these
    different characteristics, complexities and new market dynamics
    could adversely affect our operating results. For example, as we
    have previously disclosed, we entered the traditional enterprise
    market in November 2009. In addition to requiring significant
    capital expenditures, our entry into the traditional enterprise
    market adds complexity to our business that requires us to
    effectively adapt our business and management processes to
    address the unique challenges and different requirements of the
    traditional enterprise market, while maintaining a competitive
    operating cost model. If we fail to gain market acceptance in
    the traditional enterprise storage market, we will remain at a
    competitive disadvantage to the companies that succeed in this
    market and our ability to continue our growth will be negatively
    affected.


 



    Expansion
    into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures
    to increase, and if we do not successfully expand into new
    markets, our business may suffer.


 


    To remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to
    offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. We
    currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch or 2.5-inch hard drives
    for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE and external storage
    markets. However, demand for hard drives may shift to products
    in form factors or with interfaces that our competitors offer
    but which we do not. Expansion into other hard drive markets and
    resulting increases in manufacturing capacity requirements may
    require us to make substantial additional investments in part
    because our operations are largely vertically integrated now
    that we manufacture heads and magnetic media for use in many of
    the hard drives we manufacture. If we fail to successfully
    expand into new hard drive markets with products that we do not
    currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who
    offer these products.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    Our
    vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing
    makes us dependent on our ability to timely and
    cost-effectively
    develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and
    overall quality, and creates additional capital expenditure
    costs and asset utilization risks to our business.


 


    Under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a
    substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in the
    hard drive products we manufacture. Consequently, we are more
    dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and
    less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media
    technologies developed by other manufacturers. Technology
    transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to
    increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media.
    There can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful
    in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing
    heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies.
    We also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic
    media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing
    yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our
    customers’ product needs, or we may encounter quality
    problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. If we
    are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and
    magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, our
    ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished,
    which could materially and adversely affect our business and
    financial results.


 


    In addition, as a result of our vertical integration of head and
    magnetic media manufacturing, we make more capital investments
    and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we
    were not vertically integrated. If our overall level of
    production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce
    our fixed costs to match sales, our head or magnetic media
    manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact
    our operating results. We are therefore subject to additional
    risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need
    to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive
    costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do
    not manufacture ourselves. If we do not adequately address the
    challenges related to our head or magnetic media manufacturing
    operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting
    in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively
    impacting our operating results.


 



    We make
    significant investments in research and development to improve
    our technology and develop new technologies, and unsuccessful
    investments could materially adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 


    Over the past several years, our business strategy has been to
    derive a competitive advantage by moving from being a follower
    of new technologies to being a leader in the innovation and
    development of new technologies. This strategy requires us to
    make significant investments in research and development and, in
    attempting to remain competitive, we may increase our capital
    expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model.
    There can be no assurance that these investments will result in
    viable technologies or products, or if these investments do
    result in viable technologies or products, that they will be
    profitable or accepted by the market. Significant investments in
    unsuccessful research and development efforts could materially
    adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
    of operations. In addition, increased investments in technology
    could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with
    demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on
    our financial results.


 



    Current
    or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop
    an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match.


 


    It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain
    an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or
    process technology, which may allow them to offer products or
    services that have a significant advantage over the products and
    services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity,
    performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. A
    competitive cost structure for our products, including critical
    components, labor and overhead, is also critical to the success
    of our business. We may be at a competitive disadvantage to any
    companies that are able to gain a technological or cost
    structure advantage.


 



    Further
    industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to
    our competitors.


 


    The hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the
    past several years. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance
    their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost
    structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage.




    
    18



Table of Contents






    Some of
    our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard
    drive industry may over extended periods of time sell hard
    drives at prices that we cannot profitably match.


 


    Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their
    revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry.
    Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to
    achieve profitability, they may sell hard drives at lower prices
    and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss over an
    extended period of time while still remaining profitable
    overall. In addition, if these competitors can increase sales of
    non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit
    from selling their hard drives at lower prices. Our operating
    results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully
    compete with the pricing by these companies.


 



    If we
    fail to qualify our products with our customers or if product
    life cycles lengthen, it may have a significant adverse impact
    on our sales and margins.


 


    We regularly engage in new product qualification with our
    customers. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing,
    failures or delays in the qualification process can result in
    delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused
    by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation
    product, or lost sales to that customer until the next
    generation of products is introduced. The effect of missing a
    product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited
    number of high volume OEMs, which continue to consolidate their
    share of the storage markets. Likewise, if product life cycles
    lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait
    before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a
    customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect
    declining gross margins on our current generation products as a
    result of competitive pressures.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to product defects, which could result
    in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to
    warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which
    are greater than anticipated.


 


    We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to
    five years. We test our hard drives in our manufacturing
    facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no
    assurance that our testing will reveal defects in our products,
    which may not become apparent until after the products have been
    sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product
    defects will occur, which could require a product recall.
    Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product
    recall occurs during the product’s warranty period, we may
    be required to replace the defective product. Moreover, there is
    a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure
    clause in a customer agreement. If an epidemic failure occurs,
    we may be required to replace or refund the value of the
    defective product and to cover certain other costs associated
    with the consequences of the epidemic failure. In addition, a
    product recall or epidemic failure may damage our reputation or
    customer relationships, and may cause us to lose market share
    with our customers, including our OEM and ODM customers.


 


    Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions
    of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper
    installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the
    possession of someone other than us. We record an accrual for
    estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We
    may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty
    provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues
    related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a
    product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. If these
    additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect
    our business, financial condition and operating results.


 



    Dependence
    on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and
    manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or
    increased costs.


 


    Our future operating results may depend substantially on our
    suppliers’ ability to timely qualify their components in
    our programs, and their ability to supply us with these
    components in sufficient volumes to meet our production
    requirements. A number of the components that we use are
    available from only a single or limited number of qualified
    suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. As
    such, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain
    access to and integrate parts from reliable component suppliers.
    To do so, we must maintain effective relationships with our
    supply base to source our component needs, develop compatible
    technology, and maintain continuity of supply at reasonable
    costs. If we fail to maintain effective relationships with our
    supply base, or if we fail to integrate components from our
    suppliers effectively, this may adversely affect our ability to
    develop and deliver the best products to our customers and our
    profitability could suffer.




    
    19



Table of Contents





    Certain equipment and consumables we use in our manufacturing or
    testing processes are available only from a limited number of
    suppliers. Some of this equipment and consumables use materials
    that at times could be in short supply. If these materials are
    not available, or are not available in the quantities we require
    for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to
    manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer
    significant loss of revenue.


 


    Each of the following could also significantly harm our
    operating results:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an unwillingness of a supplier to supply such components or
    equipment to us;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidation of key suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure of a key supplier’s business process;




 



     
        • 

    
    a key supplier’s or
    sub-supplier’s
    inability to access credit necessary to operate its
    business; or




 



     
        • 

    
    failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an
    independent merchant supplier, or to adjust to market conditions.





 



    Shortages
    of commodity materials or commodity components, price
    volatility, or use by other industries of materials and
    components used in the hard drive industry, may negatively
    impact our operating results.


 


    Increases in the cost for certain commodity materials or
    commodity components may increase our costs of manufacturing and
    transporting hard drives and key components. Shortages of
    commodity components such as DRAM and NAND flash, or commodity
    materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum,
    nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase
    our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are
    unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. We or our
    suppliers acquire certain precious metals and rare earth metals
    like ruthenium, platinum, neodymium and cerium, critical to the
    manufacture of components in our products from a number of
    countries, including the People’s Republic of China. The
    government of China or any other nation may impose regulations,
    quotas or embargoes upon these metals that would restrict the
    worldwide supply of such metals
    and/or
    increase their cost, both of which could negatively impact our
    operating results until alternative suppliers are sourced.
    Furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their
    demand for materials or components used in our products, our
    costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect
    on our operating margins. In addition, shortages in other
    commodity components and materials used in our customers’
    products could result in a decrease in demand for our products,
    which would negatively impact our operating results. The
    volatility in the cost of oil also affects our costs and may
    result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these
    increased costs on to our customers.


 



    Contractual
    commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying
    increased charges and cash advances for such components or may
    cause us to have inadequate or excess component
    inventory.


 


    To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide
    significant lead times when buying components, which may subject
    us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of
    technology transitions or changes in our component needs. In
    addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual
    commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase
    and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to
    purchase such components at favorable prices. Some of these
    commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of
    components from the supplier or make significant cash advances
    to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a
    satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such
    components. Furthermore, as a result of uncertain global
    economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements
    for these components has become increasingly difficult,
    therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments
    may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause
    us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and
    adversely affect our operating results and increase our
    operating costs.


 



    Failure
    by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and
    manufacture components, technology or production equipment for
    our products may adversely affect our operations.


 


    We rely on suppliers for various component parts that we
    integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves,
    such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions.
    Likewise, we rely on suppliers for certain





    
    20



Table of Contents





    technology and equipment necessary for advanced development
    technology for future products. Some of these components, and
    most of this technology and production equipment, must be
    specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products
    or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are
    only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of with
    whom we are sole sourced. We are therefore dependent on these
    suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate
    engineering resources to develop components that can be
    successfully integrated with our products, and technology and
    production equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture
    our next-generation products efficiently. The failure of these
    suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture
    components that can be integrated into our products or
    technology and production equipment that can be used to develop
    or manufacture next generation products may cause us to
    experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment
    of hard drive products, our expansion into new technology and
    markets, or our ability to remain competitive with alternative
    storage technologies, therefore adversely affecting our business
    and financial results.


 



    Changes
    in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial
    results.


 


    If product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new
    technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular
    product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. If
    product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our
    overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of
    which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition,
    shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult
    to recover the cost of product development before the product
    becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of product
    development in the future could adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    A
    fundamental change in recording technology could result in
    significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us
    at a competitive disadvantage.


 


    Historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change
    in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and
    timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new
    technology fails to remain competitive. There are some
    revolutionary technologies, such as
    current-perpendicular-to-plane giant magnetoresistance, shingle
    magnetic recording, energy assisted magnetic recording,
    patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing, that if
    implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead
    of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage. As
    a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial
    costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic
    media, and tools to remain competitive. If we fail to
    successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are
    significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new
    technologies, we may not be able to offer products with
    capacities that our customers desire.


 



    The
    difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of
    areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may
    impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost
    reduction.


 


    Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is
    determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal
    density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic
    bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk.
    Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information
    can be stored on a single platter. Higher areal densities
    require existing head and magnetic media technology to be
    improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data
    on a single disk. Historically, we have been able to achieve a
    large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal
    density. Increases in areal density mean that the average drive
    we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and,
    therefore, may result in a lower component cost. However,
    increasing areal density has become more difficult in the hard
    drive industry. If we are not able to increase areal density at
    the same rate as our competitors or at a rate that is expected
    by our customers, we may be required to include more components
    in our drives to meet demand without corresponding incremental
    revenue, which could negatively impact our operating margins and
    make achieving historical levels of cost reduction difficult or
    unlikely. Additionally, increases in areal density may require
    us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new
    testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of
    GB per platter. Our inability to achieve cost reductions could
    adversely affect our operating results.




    
    21



Table of Contents






    If we do
    not properly manage technology transitions and new product
    development, our competitiveness and operating results may be
    negatively affected.


 


    The storage markets in which we offer our products continuously
    undergo technology transitions which we must anticipate and
    adapt our products to address in a timely manner. If we fail to
    implement these new technologies successfully, or if we are
    slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we
    may not be able to competitively offer products that our
    customers desire, which could harm our operating results.


 


    In addition, the success of our new product introductions
    depends on a number of other factors, including


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp;




 



     
        • 

    
    implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by
    our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    market acceptance/qualification;




 



     
        • 

    
    effective management of inventory levels in line with
    anticipated product demand; and




 



     
        • 

    
    quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new
    product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of
    those products.





 


    Our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate
    and manage these issues associated with our product development.


 



    If we
    fail to develop and introduce new hard drives that are
    competitive against alternative storage technologies, our
    business may suffer.


 


    Our success depends in part on our ability to develop and
    introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace
    with competing technologies. Alternative storage technologies
    like solid-state storage technology have successfully served
    digital entertainment markets for products such as digital
    cameras, MP3 players, USB flash drives, mobile phones and tablet
    devices that cannot be economically serviced using hard drive
    technology. Advances in semiconductor technology have resulted
    in solid-state storage emerging as a technology that is
    competitive with hard drives for high performance needs in
    advanced digital computing markets such as enterprise servers
    and storage. Solid-state storage is produced by large
    semiconductor companies who can then sell their storage products
    at lower prices while still remaining profitable overall. This
    can help them improve their market share at the expense of the
    competition. In addition, these semiconductor companies may
    choose to supply companies like us with semiconductor media at
    prices that make it difficult, if not impossible, for us to
    compete with them on a profitable basis. As a result, there can
    be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and
    developing new products for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE
    and external storage markets in response to solid-state storage,
    as well as other competing technologies. If our hard drive
    technology fails to offer higher capacity, performance and
    reliability with lower
    cost-per-gigabyte
    than solid-state storage for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE
    and external storage markets, we will be at a competitive
    disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology to
    serve these markets and our business will suffer.


 



    Our
    manufacturing operations, and those of certain of our suppliers
    and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built
    facilities, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or
    loss if operations at any of these facilities are
    disrupted.


 


    As a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical
    integration, we conduct our manufacturing operations at large,
    high volume, purpose-built facilities. For example, a
    substantial majority of our requirement for heads is satisfied
    by wafers fabricated in our Fremont, California facility. Also,
    we manufacture the majority of our substrates for magnetic media
    in our Johor, Malaysia facility, and we finish a majority of our
    magnetic media in our facilities in Penang, Malaysia and Tuas,
    Singapore. A majority of our high volume hard drive
    manufacturing operations are conducted in our two facilities in
    Thailand, with the balance conducted in our Kuala Lumpur,
    Malaysia facility and the facilities of our contract
    manufacturers in Asia, Brazil, Europe and the United States. As
    part of our planned acquisition of HGST, we will also acquire
    manufacturing facilities located in Japan, China and the
    Philippines (as well as additional factories in Singapore,
    Thailand and Malaysia). The manufacturing facilities of many of
    our customers, our suppliers and our customers’ suppliers
    are also concentrated in certain geographic locations in Asia
    and elsewhere. A localized health risk affecting our employees
    at these facilities or the staff of our or our customers’
    other suppliers, such as the spread of the Influenza A (H1N1) or
    a new pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of hard
    drives that we are able to manufacture
    and/or





    
    22



Table of Contents





    sell, which would result in substantial harm to our operating
    results. Similarly, a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other
    disaster, condition or event such as political instability,
    civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of
    these facilities would significantly affect our ability to
    manufacture
    and/or sell
    hard drives, which would result in a substantial loss of sales
    and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results.


 


    For example, while we presently do not have manufacturing
    operations located in Japan, we do source certain components
    from suppliers with facilities in Japan. The March 2011
    earthquakes, tsunami and related events in Japan, including the
    resulting power outages, have affected and may continue to
    affect the supply of certain components used in the production
    of hard drives and systems that include hard drives. The
    development of events in Japan has, however, been fluid and
    unpredictable. If we experience any shortage of components of
    acceptable quality, or any interruption in the supply of
    required components we cannot promptly obtain from alternative
    sources at acceptable prices, our operating results would be
    adversely affected. In addition, even if the events in Japan do
    not adversely affect our component supply, they may adversely
    affect the supply of other components our customers use in their
    systems, which could negatively impact demand for our products
    and, therefore, our revenues.


 



    Manufacturing
    outside the United States and marketing our products globally
    subjects us to numerous risks.


 


    We are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing
    operations and global marketing efforts, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    obtaining requisite U.S. and foreign governmental permits
    and approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political instability and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time
    required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods
    of price declines;




 



     
        • 

    
    higher freight rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    labor problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade restrictions or higher tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in European
    and other countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations;




 



     
        • 

    
    increasing labor and overhead costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements
    or treaties with foreign tax authorities.





 



    Terrorist
    attacks may adversely affect our business and operating
    results.


 


    The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war
    or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and
    insurance markets and have significantly increased the
    political, economic and social instability in some of the
    geographic areas in which we operate. Additionally, it is
    uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various
    governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will
    have on shipping costs. Acts of terrorism, either domestically
    or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability.
    To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our
    manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our
    business, operating results and financial condition could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Sudden
    disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an
    impact on our operations.


 


    We generally ship our products to our customers, and receive
    shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight.
    The sudden unavailability or disruption of cargo operations or
    freight lanes, such as due to labor difficulties or disputes,
    severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political
    instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results
    by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our
    products.




    
    23



Table of Contents






    We are
    vulnerable to system failures or attacks, which could harm our
    business.


 


    We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among
    other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products,
    fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make
    payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption
    from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures,
    computer viruses, computer
    denial-of-service
    attacks and other events. Our business is also subject to
    break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third
    parties as well as employees. Despite any precautions we may
    take, such problems could result in, among other consequences,
    interruptions in our business, which could harm our reputation
    and financial condition.


 



    If we
    fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions,
    investment opportunities or other significant transactions, it
    may adversely affect our future results.


 


    As part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of,
    investment opportunities in or other significant transactions
    with companies that are complementary to our business. In order
    to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify
    attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully
    complete the transaction, some of which may be large and
    complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of
    the acquired company or employees. We may not be able to
    identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment
    opportunities given the intense competition for these
    transactions. Even if we identify and complete suitable
    corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully
    address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at
    all. If we fail to successfully integrate an acquisition, we may
    not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of the
    acquisition, and our future results of operations could be
    adversely affected.


 



    If we are
    unable to retain or hire key staff and skilled employees our
    business results may suffer.


 


    Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key
    staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely
    difficult to replace. Global competition for skilled employees
    in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to
    move to a position of technology leadership in the storage
    industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on
    our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees as
    well as attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees.
    Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price
    and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to
    retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity
    compensation. Additionally, because a substantial portion of our
    key employees’ compensation is placed “at risk”
    and linked to the performance of our business, when our
    operating results are negatively impacted by global economic
    conditions, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining
    and hiring key staff and skilled employees versus other
    companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. If we are
    unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or
    hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we
    fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our
    operating results would likely be harmed.


 



    The
    nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property
    and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of
    significant litigation.


 


    The data storage industry has been characterized by significant
    litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and
    other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and
    other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy
    and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the
    results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in
    adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or
    be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the
    aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition or operating results.


 


    We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices
    of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to
    time. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be
    required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our
    existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology.
    Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly.
    In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against
    us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for
    any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us
    in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued
    barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could
    also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or
    lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement,
    treble damages. Any of these results would increase our costs
    and harm our operating results.




    
    24



Table of Contents






    Our
    reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary
    information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients
    of our business could be copied by competitors.


 


    Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary
    nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual
    property such as our process technology. If a competitor is able
    to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite
    the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive
    or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also,
    the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our
    intellectual property to the same extent as do U.S. laws.
    In addition to patent protection of intellectual property
    rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon
    employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and
    contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to
    protect our proprietary information. However, any of our
    registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be
    challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might
    harm our operating results.


 



    The costs
    of compliance with state, federal and international legal and
    regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade and
    tax regulations, and customers’ standards of corporate
    citizenship could cause an increase in our operating
    costs.


 


    We may be or become subject to various state, federal and
    international laws and regulations governing our environmental,
    labor, trade and tax practices. These laws and regulations,
    particularly those applicable to our international operations,
    are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. We will
    need to ensure that we and our component suppliers timely comply
    with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase
    in our operating costs. For example, the European Union
    (“EU”) has enacted the Restriction of the Use of
    Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic
    Equipment (“RoHS”) directive, which prohibits the use
    of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the Waste
    Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”)
    directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and
    electronic equipment onto the market in the EU to put a clearly
    identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to
    EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and
    provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the
    equipment. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations
    where we manufacture or sell our products. In addition, climate
    change and financial reform legislation in the United States is
    a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may
    continue to generate federal or other regulatory responses in
    the near future. If we or our component suppliers fail to timely
    comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to
    purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs
    as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, which would have a
    materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition
    and operating results.


 


    In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws
    and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry
    environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct
    required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound
    corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could
    incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject
    to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if
    we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant
    with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be
    subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and
    damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause
    our financial condition or operating results to suffer.


 



    Violation
    of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and
    certain other practices by our suppliers could harm our
    business.


 


    We expect our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable
    laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws,
    and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of
    conduct. While our internal operating guidelines promote ethical
    business practices, we do not control our suppliers or their
    labor or environmental practices. The violation of labor,
    environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers, or
    divergence of a supplier’s business practices from those
    generally accepted as ethical in the United States, could harm
    our business by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product
    components;




 



     
        • 

    
    damaging our reputation;




 



     
        • 

    
    forcing us to find alternate component sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing demand for our products (for example, through a
    consumer boycott); or







    
    25



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    exposing us to potential liability for our supplier’s
    wrongdoings.





 



    Fluctuations
    in currency exchange rates as a result of our international
    operations may negatively affect our operating
    results.


 


    Because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our
    revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by
    fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the
    U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most
    foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged
    manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion
    of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated.
    Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues
    since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated.
    Additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component
    requirements in U.S. dollars from Japanese and other
    non-U.S. based
    vendors. If the U.S. dollar continues to weaken against
    other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may
    increase the price they charge for their components in order to
    maintain an equivalent profit margin. If this occurs, it would
    have a negative impact on our operating results.


 


    Prices for our products are substantially U.S. dollar
    denominated, even when sold to customers that are located
    outside the United States. Therefore, as a substantial portion
    of our sales are from countries outside the United States,
    fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the
    strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other foreign
    currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in
    impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and
    revenue growth. In addition, currency variations can adversely
    affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the
    United States.


 


    We have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency
    exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into
    short-term, foreign exchange contracts. However, these contracts
    do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the
    counterparty if currency controls are put in place. Currently,
    we hedge the Thai Baht, Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and British
    Pound Sterling with foreign exchange contracts.


 



    Increases
    in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses
    and an increase in our operating costs.


 


    Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model
    that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as
    ODMs, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our
    OEM customers. Because these subcontractors are generally not as
    well capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor
    model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with
    our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product
    prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as
    we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into
    emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the
    customers with the most success in these regions may have
    relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult
    for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. Any
    credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased
    risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant
    customer, would increase our operating costs, which may
    negatively impact our operating results.


 



    Our
    operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from
    period to period due to many factors, which may result in a
    significant decline in our stock price.


 


    Our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant
    fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major
    customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    our product mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the prices of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing delays or interruptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    limited availability of components that we obtain from a single
    or a limited number of suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to
    technological advances; and







    
    26



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    availability and rates of transportation.





 


    We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in
    the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us
    to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter.
    As a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of
    operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our
    actual financial results. If our results of operations fail to
    meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause
    an immediate and significant decline in our stock price.


 



    We have
    made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions
    relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual
    results may differ significantly from our estimates and
    assumptions.


 


    We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and
    assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting.
    The highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly
    changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual
    results may differ significantly from our estimates and
    assumptions. These changes have impacted our financial results
    in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Key
    estimates and assumptions for us include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and
    allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and
    distributors;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of
    cost or market value (net realizable value);




 



     
        • 

    
    reserves for doubtful accounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for product returns;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for warranty costs related to product defects;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for litigation and other contingencies;




 



     
        • 

    
    liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and




 



     
        • 

    
    expensing of stock-based compensation.





 



    The
    market price of our common stock is volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue
    to be, extremely volatile. Factors that may significantly affect
    the market price of our common stock include the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results,
    including those resulting from the seasonality of our business;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements of technological innovations by us or our
    competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of
    sales of our existing products and increase the risk of
    inventory obsolescence;




 



     
        • 

    
    new products introduced by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price
    erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry
    consolidation;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and
    content management, storage and communication industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are
    lower than our previous high growth-rate periods;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating
    specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general;




 



     
        • 

    
    macroeconomic conditions that affect the market
    generally; and




 



     
        • 

    
    uncertainties regarding our planned acquisition of HGST.







    
    27



Table of Contents




 


    In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock
    market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from
    time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many
    high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be
    unrelated to the operating performance of the companies.


 


    Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against
    companies after periods of volatility in the market price of
    their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against
    us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such
    matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of
    resources and management’s attention.


 



    Current
    economic conditions have caused us difficulty in adequately
    protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from
    financial institution failures.


 


    The uncertain global economic conditions and volatile investment
    markets have caused us to hold more cash and cash equivalents
    than we would hold under normal circumstances. Since there has
    been an overall increase in demand for low-risk,
    U.S. government-backed securities with a limited supply in
    the financial marketplace, we face increased difficulty in
    adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents
    from possible sudden and unforeseeable failures by banks and
    other financial institutions. A failure of any of these
    financial institutions in which deposits exceed FDIC limits
    could have an adverse impact on our financial position.


 



    If our
    internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial
    results or our stock price may be adversely affected.


 


    Our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of
    July 1, 2011, in compliance with Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal control over financial
    reporting was effective. We believe that we currently have
    adequate internal control procedures in place for future
    periods; however, if our internal control over financial
    reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a
    material weakness in our financial reporting, investors may lose
    confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which
    may adversely affect our financial results or our stock price.


 



    From time
    to time we may become subject to income tax audits or similar
    proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and
    expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that
    may negatively impact our operating results.


 


    We are subject to income taxes in the United States and certain
    foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax
    liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and
    foreign tax authorities. For example, as we have previously
    disclosed, we are under examination by the Internal Revenue
    Service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that
    examination, we received Revenue Agent Reports seeking certain
    adjustments to income as disclosed in Part II, Item 8,
    Note 9 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    included in this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.
    Although we believe our tax positions are properly supported,
    the final timing and resolution of the notice of proposed
    adjustment and the audits are subject to significant uncertainty
    and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable
    tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax
    positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our
    current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively
    impact our financial position, results of operations, net income
    or cash flows.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B