Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    as well as our other reports filed with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You are cautioned not to
    place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which
    speak only as of the date of this document. We do not intend,
    and undertake no obligation, to publish revised forward-looking
    statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of
    this document or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated
    events.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    PART I



 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We design, develop, manufacture and sell hard drives. A hard
    drive is a device that uses one or more rotating magnetic disks
    to store and allow fast access to data. Hard drives are key
    components of computers, data storage subsystems and many
    consumer electronic devices.


 


    We sell our products worldwide to original equipment
    manufacturers (“OEMs”) for use in computer systems,
    subsystems or consumer electronics (“CE”) devices, and
    to distributors, resellers and retailers. Our hard drives are
    used in desktop computers, notebook computers, and enterprise
    applications such as servers, workstations, network attached
    storage and storage area networks. Additionally, our hard drives
    are used in CE applications such as digital video recorders
    (“DVRs”), satellite and cable set-top boxes
    (“STBs”), MP3 players, and USB thumb drives. We also
    sell our hard drives as stand-alone storage products and
    integrate them into our own WD-branded external storage products
    for purposes such as personal data backup and portable or
    expanded storage of digital music, photography, video, and other
    data.


 


    Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that
    the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the
    device. Our hard drives currently include
    3.5-inch,
    2.5-inch and
    1.0-inch
    form factor drives. The
    3.5-inch
    form factor drives have capacities ranging from 36 gigabytes
    (“GB”) to 500 GB, nominal rotation speeds of 7,200 and
    10,000 revolutions per minute (“RPM”), and offer
    interfaces including both Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics
    (“EIDE”) and Serial Advanced Technology Attachment
    (“SATA”). The
    2.5-inch
    form factor drives have capacities ranging from 40 GB to 160 GB,
    nominal rotation speed of 5,400 RPM, and offer both the EIDE and
    SATA interfaces. Our
    1.0-inch
    form factor, with 4 and 6 GB hard drives, used primarily in
    miniature portable storage devices, have a nominal rotation
    speed of 3,600 RPM and use the
    CompactFlash®
    130 interface.


 


    We assemble hard drives in Malaysia and Thailand. We also design
    and manufacture a substantial portion of our required magnetic
    heads, head gimbal assemblies (“HGAs”) and head stack
    assemblies (“HSAs”) in Fremont, California and Bang
    Pa-In, Thailand. For geographical financial data, see
    Part II, Item 8, Note 10 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Business
    Strategy


 


    Our business strategy is to provide a broad selection of
    reliable, high quality hard drives at a low total cost of
    ownership and with high efficiency. We believe this strategy
    helps accomplish the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive hard drive
    industry;



 


     
        • 

    
    provides great value to our customers; and



 


     
        • 

    
    allows us to better achieve consistent financial performance,
    including strong returns on invested capital.





 


    We have designed our business strategy to accommodate
    significant unit and revenue growth with relatively small
    increases in operating expenses and to consistently achieve high
    asset utilization.


 



    Industry


 


    We develop and manufacture hard drives for the desktop, mobile,
    enterprise, CE and retail markets. We believe that growth in the
    sales of hard drives has outpaced growth in the sales of all
    desktop and notebook computers (“PCs”) over the past
    five years. Based on industry data, in calendar 2001 there were
    approximately 50% more hard drives sold in the market than PCs.
    In contrast, in calendar 2005 there were approximately 74% more
    hard drives sold in the market than PCs. We believe the
    following factors primarily drive this accelerating growth of
    hard drive sales versus PC sales:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consumer use of hard drives for the playing, retention, and
    creation of digital content for personal use in the rapidly
    growing CE market;



 


     
        • 

    
    growth of the external hard drive or branded products market,
    permitting the easy storage and backup of data such as music or
    digital photographs;






    
    4



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increased use of multiple hard drives in PCs for data backup and
    expanded storage capacity; and



 


     
        • 

    
    increased use of multiple cost-optimized high performance hard
    drives in data-intensive applications such as Internet search
    engines.





 


    These factors and our product expansion efforts in the last two
    years have gradually increased our percentage of revenue derived
    from non-desktop sources. In 2006, 71% of our revenue was from
    desktop computers and 29% was from non-desktop sources, compared
    to 79% of our revenue from desktop computers and 21% from
    non-desktop sources in 2005.


 


    For further discussion of the risks of the hard drive industry,
    please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    PC
    Market


 


    The PC market consists of the overall hard drive market for
    desktop and notebook computers. Consumers use PCs in homes,
    businesses and multi-user networks. PCs use software
    applications for word processing, spreadsheet, desktop
    publishing, database management, multimedia, entertainment and
    for other needs. Hard drives store both PC software applications
    and the data used by the applications.


 


    We believe that the demand for hard drives in the PC market has
    grown in part due to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the overall growth of PC sales;



 


     
        • 

    
    the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their PCs;



 


     
        • 

    
    the continuing development of software applications to manage
    multimedia content; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto PC hard drives.





 


    We believe several other factors affect the rate of PC unit
    growth, including maturing PC markets in North America and
    Western Europe, an increase in first-time buyers of PCs in Asia,
    Eastern Europe and Latin America, and the lengthening of PC
    replacement cycles.


 



    Mobile
    Market


 


    We expect the mobile market, which consists primarily of
    notebook computers, to continue to grow faster than the desktop
    or enterprise markets in the next three years. We believe that
    the demand in the mobile market has grown from approximately 16%
    of the overall hard drive market in calendar 2003 to 21% of the
    overall hard drive market in calendar 2005.


 


    As the mobile market evolves to a higher volume market, we
    believe customers are placing increased emphasis on attributes
    such as quality, reliability, execution, flexibility, and
    competitive cost structures of their hard drive suppliers. These
    are the same attributes that have mattered for many years to
    customers in the high-volume desktop market.


 



    Enterprise
    Market


 


    The enterprise market for hard drives includes workstations,
    servers, network attached storage, storage area networks, and
    other computing systems or subsystems. Historically, hard drives
    for this market segment have utilized several interfaces,
    including the Small Computer Systems Interface
    (“SCSI”) and Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop. Beginning
    in 2003, these traditional enterprise interfaces have been
    supplemented or have been replaced in certain storage
    applications by SATA hard drives featuring an interface
    technology supported by industry standards. SATA hard drives
    typically cost less than SCSI hard drives while offering higher
    capacities and maintaining similar reliability, scalability and
    performance.


 


    We believe that enterprise uses of SATA hard drives will
    continue to increase. During the past few years a new disk-based
    back-up
    application has emerged with high-capacity SATA hard drives
    augmenting SCSI hard drives, tape and optical media. This new
    application, popularly referred to as “near-line”
    storage, has created a growth market because hard drives
    back-up or
    access data more quickly than tape or optical solutions, and
    quickly retrieve critical
    back-up or
    near-line data. The availability of SATA hard drive solutions,
    which are more cost effective than SCSI hard drives, promotes
    the increasing use of hard drives in near-line storage
    applications.



    
    5



Table of Contents




    Enterprise-class SATA drives are becoming commonplace for
    IT infrastructure applications such as databases, scientific
    computing, web caching and electronic mail. These applications
    have become an important market for large capacity SATA hard
    drives. We believe that this market will consume a growing
    portion of the highest capacity hard drives in the next three
    years.


 



    Consumer
    Electronics Market


 


    The use of hard drives in CE products has been a major growth
    area in recent years. Today’s three largest segments of
    this market are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    digital video content in applications such as DVRs;



 


     
        • 

    
    audio and video content in applications such as consumer
    handheld devices, including MP3 players; and



 


     
        • 

    
    hard drives in game consoles.





 


    Since 1999, DVRs have been available for use in home
    entertainment systems and they offer enhanced capabilities such
    as pausing live television, simplifying the process of
    recording, cataloging recorded television programs and quickly
    forwarding or returning to any section of a recorded television
    program. Additionally, digital video disk (“DVD”)
    recorders increasingly incorporate hard drives to allow for DVR
    functionality and faster recording of content onto removable
    DVDs. The market for these products favors large capacity hard
    drives and continues to grow in Japan, North America, and
    Europe. Additionally, the rest of Asia Pacific shows strong
    interest in this market. We believe growth in this market will
    continue to build demand for higher capacity hard drives.


 


    Hard drives with
    1.8-inch or
    1.0-inch
    form factors primarily address the consumer handheld device and
    portable external storage markets. The majority of hard drives
    used in portable media players that play both digital audio and
    video content are
    1.8-inch
    form factors.


 



    External
    Hard Drive Market


 


    Most new PC systems include high-speed external interfaces, such
    as
    FireWiretm,
    USB 2.0 or Ethernet network connections that permit users to
    supplement the storage space of their PC systems or home and
    small office networks with the use of external hard drives.
    Users store additional programs or multimedia content, and back
    up internal hard drives with external hard drives. Although
    external hard drives are a small part of the overall hard drive
    market, we believe that sales will continue to grow. External
    storage can often be the easiest, quickest or only way of adding
    additional storage capacity to either a desktop or notebook
    computer. In addition, there is opportunity for external storage
    in CE products as a way of expanding storage capacity in these
    devices.


 



    Other
    Market Opportunities


 


    We regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data
    storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve.
    Based on significant investments we made over the last four
    years, we believe we now have the technology building blocks to
    increase our overall market penetration and be a full-line hard
    drive supplier. Consistent with our measured and deliberate
    approach to new market entries in the recent past, our approach
    to additional new markets will be based on a careful assessment
    of the risks, rewards, requirements and profit potential of such
    actions.


 



    Products


 


    We offer a broad line of hard drives designed for various
    markets. We market our hard drives under brand names including
    WD
    Caviar®,
    WD
    Raptor®,
    WD
    Scorpiotm,
    WD
    Passporttm
    and My
    Booktm.
    These hard drives service the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE
    and branded products markets, and can be found in products
    including desktop



    
    6



Table of Contents




    computers, notebook computers, enterprise storage, workstations,
    video surveillance equipment, networking products, DVRs, STBs
    and external storage devices.


 



    Desktop
    Hard Drive Products


 


    Our hard drives designed for the desktop market currently
    consist of
    3.5-inch
    form factor products with capacities ranging from 36 GB to 500
    GB and a nominal rotation speed of 7,200 RPM. These products
    utilize either the EIDE or SATA interfaces, providing high
    performance while retaining ease of use and overall low cost of
    connection. The type of EIDE interface currently used in our
    hard drives is ATA/100, which signifies a burst data transfer
    rate of 100 megabytes per second, which is the maximum
    specified data transition that can be sustained under ideal
    conditions. The SATA interface available in many of our hard
    drives enable burst transfer rates of up to 300 megabytes
    per second.


 



    Mobile
    Hard Drive Products


 


    Our hard drives used in mobile products typically include
    2.5-inch
    form factor drives for notebook computers. Although the desktop
    market accounts for a majority of hard drive sales, unit
    shipments of hard drives for notebook computers represent a
    growing share of the total. In 2005, we introduced our WD
    Scorpiotm
    hard drive family consisting of
    2.5-inch
    form factor products with capacities ranging from 40 GB to 80 GB
    and a nominal rotation speed of 5,400 RPM. These products
    utilize the EIDE interface. In January 2006, we expanded our WD
    Scorpiotm
    line with 100 GB and 120 GB offerings, enabling us to address a
    greater share of the
    2.5-inch
    mobile market. In addition, we added a family of products with
    the SATA interface in March 2006. In July 2006, we added an 80
    GB-per-platter
    2.5 inch drive with perpendicular magnetic recording (PMR)
    technology to the WD
    Scorpiotm
    family providing as much as 160 GB total drive capacity.


 



    Enterprise
    Hard Drive Products


 


    We offer multiple product lines to address enterprise market
    needs, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the WD
    Raptor®,
    which is a 10,000 RPM enterprise-class drive with the SATA
    interface for enterprise applications requiring high performance
    and high reliability; and



 


     
        • 

    
    the WD
    Caviar®
    RAID Edition (RE), which is a 7,200 RPM drive with capacities
    ranging from 120 GB to 500 GB. The WD
    Caviar®
    RE includes both SATA and EIDE interfaces and has enhanced
    reliability features and ratings when contrasted to our desktop
    products.





 


    Both WD
    Raptor®
    and WD
    Caviar®
    RE drives may be used in, but are not limited to, applications
    such as databases,
    e-commerce
    and super computing in life science, oil and gas and similar
    industries, business records management,
    e-mail, file
    serving, web serving, near-line storage, medical records,
    engineering data management, video broadcasting and video
    security.


 



    Consumer
    Electronics Products


 


    We offer hard drives designed for use in products such as DVRs,
    STBs, karaoke systems, multi-function printers, and gaming
    systems. These products deliver the characteristics CE
    manufacturers seek most — quiet operation, low
    temperature and power consumption specifications, high
    reliability and optimized streaming capabilities.


 



    Branded
    Products


 


    We also sell a line of branded hard drive products and related
    adapters directly to end customers through retail store fronts
    and online stores. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    3.5-inch,
    2.5-inch and
    1.0-inch
    form factor external hard drives, which are internal drives
    embedded into PC peripheral-style enclosures with the WD
    brand that have
    FireWiretm,
    USB 2.0 and Ethernet network connections; and



 


     
        • 

    
    internal hard drives packaged as an installation kit with the WD
    brand for retail store sales.






    
    7



Table of Contents



 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We devote substantial resources to development of new products
    and improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering
    efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing
    processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective
    and timely manner. Research and development expenses totaled
    $297 million, $240 million and $202 million in
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.


 


    For further discussion of risks related to our development of
    new products, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Technology
    and Product Development


 


    Hard drives record, store and retrieve digital data. Performance
    attributes of hard drives, such as their ability to access and
    transmit data and storage capacity, are currently better than
    removable or floppy disks, optical hard drives and tapes, and
    they are more cost effective than semiconductor technology. The
    primary measures of hard drive performance include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    “Storage capacity” — the amount of data that
    can be stored on the hard drive — commonly expressed
    in GB. As defined in the hard drive industry, one GB equals one
    billion bytes. A byte is a digital character, typically
    comprised of eight bits. A bit is a binary digit, the smallest
    unit of information in a digital system.



 


     
        • 

    
    “Average seek time” — the time needed to
    position the heads over a selected track on the disk
    surface — commonly expressed in milliseconds.



 


     
        • 

    
    “Internal data transfer rate” — the
    sustained rate of data transfer to and from the disk —
    commonly expressed in megabits per second. One megabit equals
    one million bits.



 


     
        • 

    
    “Spindle rotational speed” — the nominal
    rotational speed of the disks inside the hard drive —
    commonly expressed in RPM, revolutions per minute or latency.
    Spindle rotational speeds commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200 and
    10,000 RPM are sometimes approximations.



 


     
        • 

    
    “Acoustics” — the sound power emitted during
    hard drive operation — commonly expressed in decibels.





 


    All of our hard drive products employ similar technology. The
    main components of the hard drive are a head disk assembly and a
    printed circuit board. The head disk assembly includes heads,
    media (disks), head positioning mechanism (actuator) and spindle
    motor. A hard base plate protective package in a
    contamination-controlled environment contain these components.
    The printed circuit board includes both standard and custom
    integrated circuits, an interface connector to the host computer
    and a power connector.


 


    One or more disks positioned around a motor-driven spindle hub
    that rotates the disks comprises the head disk assembly. A thin
    coating of magnetic materials applied to a smooth substrate make
    the disk. Each disk has a head suspended directly above it,
    which can read data from or write data to the spinning disk.


 


    The integrated circuits on the printed circuit board typically
    include a drive interface and a controller. The drive interface
    receives instructions from the computer, while the controller
    directs the flow of data to or from the disks and controls the
    heads. The location of data on each disk is logically maintained
    in concentric tracks divided into sectors. The computer sends
    instructions to the controller to read data from or write data
    to the disks based on logical track and sector locations. Guided
    by instructions from the controller, the head stack assembly
    pivots and swings across the disk by a head actuator or motor
    until it reaches the selected track of a disk, where the data is
    recorded or retrieved.


 


    Industry standard interfaces allow the hard drive to communicate
    with the computer. Currently, the primary interfaces for PCs are
    EIDE and SATA, and the primary interface for enterprise systems
    is SCSI. As computer performance continues to improve, the hard
    drive will need to deliver information faster. We believe this
    will continue to drive the PC industry transition to higher
    speed interfaces, such as SATA, to handle the higher data
    transfer rates. We currently offer our WD
    Caviar®,
    7,200 RPM drives with the SATA interface and featuring
    capacities as large as 500 GB. We design these products for the
    PC, workstation, server, and external storage markets. We
    believe that SATA is also becoming a more popular interface in
    the enterprise market. We currently offer our WD
    Raptor®,
    a 10,000 RPM enterprise-class drive with the SATA interface, and
    the WD
    Caviar®
    RE and RE2, 7,200 RPM drives manufactured to enterprise-class
    standards and available with a SATA interface.



    
    8



Table of Contents




    The number of disks and each disk’s areal density, which is
    a measure of the amount of data that can be stored on the
    recording surface of the disk, determines storage capacity of
    the hard drive. The higher the areal density, the more
    information can be stored on a single platter. Achieving a given
    drive capacity requires fewer disks as the areal density
    increases, potentially reducing product costs over time through
    reduced component requirements. Beginning in July 2006, we began
    shipping
    3.5-inch
    hard drives with 160 GB per platter areal density and
    2.5-inch
    hard drives with 80 GB per platter areal density.


 


    Head technology is one of the variables affecting areal density.
    Historically, there have been rapid technological changes
    resulting in several generations of head technology in a
    relatively short time. However, in recent years the time has
    lengthened between changes in generations of head technology.
    Currently, the desktop hard drive industry uses giant
    magnetoresistive (including tunneling magnetoresistive) head
    technology, which allows significantly higher storage capacities
    than the previously utilized thin-film head technology. Most of
    our hard drive product offerings currently employ giant
    magnetoresistive head technology. Additionally, we have
    undertaken significant development efforts to implement
    perpendicular recording technology and we began using
    perpendicular recording heads in certain products beginning in
    July 2006.


 


    The WD product line generally leverages a common platform for
    various products within product families with different
    capacities to serve differing market needs. This platform
    strategy results in commonality of components across different
    products within product families and, in some cases, across
    product families, which reduces exposure to changes in demand,
    facilitates inventory management and allows us to achieve lower
    costs through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also
    enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts
    onto successive product models.


 


    In addition to the development of hard drives, we also invest
    considerable resources in the development of WD head technology
    used in the majority of our hard drive products. The design and
    manufacturing of WD heads consists of engineering and
    fabricating a read element for reading data from a disk, a write
    element for writing data to a disk, and slider. The slider
    functions similar to an airplane wing and allows the read and
    write elements to fly over the surface of the disk and to land,
    on either the disk or a special ramp, when power is not applied
    to the hard drive.


 


    Fiscal 2006 represented the fourth consecutive year of
    substantial growth in our research and development and capital
    spending to support our significant broadening of our product
    and technology portfolios. Over that four-year period, we have
    grown our investment spending over 250% from $168 million
    in fiscal 2002 to approximately $600 million in fiscal
    2006. As a result of this investment activity, we continue to
    expand our business beyond the desktop market into newer markets
    or markets in which we have not previously participated. Such
    investments have allowed us to execute against our strategic
    objective of revenue diversification to address the growth of
    new applications for hard drives and fast-growing new market
    opportunities.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to technological
    innovations, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Sales and
    Distribution


 


    We sell our products globally to OEMs, distributors and
    retailers. OEMs purchase our hard drives and assemble them into
    the computer or other CE systems they build. Distributors
    typically sell our hard drives to non-direct customers such as
    small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems
    integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Retailers
    typically sell our hard drive products directly to end-users.


 



    Original
    Equipment Manufacturers


 


    Sales to OEMs accounted for 54%, 58% and 51% of our revenue in
    2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. During 2006, our major OEM
    customer was Dell. During 2006, 2005 and 2004, sales to Dell
    accounted for 12%, 16%, and 14%, respectively, of our revenue.
    We believe that our success depends on our ability to maintain
    and improve our strong relationships with the leading OEMs.


 


    OEMs evaluate and select their hard drive suppliers based on a
    number of factors, including quality and reliability, storage
    capacities, performance characteristics, price, service and
    support, ease of doing business, and the supplier’s
    long-term financial stability. They typically seek to qualify
    two or more providers for each generation of hard drives, and
    once an OEM has chosen its qualified hard drive vendors for a
    given product, it generally will purchase hard drives from those
    vendors for the life of that product. To achieve success with
    OEM qualifications, a hard drive supplier must consistently
    offer hard drives featuring leading technology, quality, and
    reliability at acceptable capacity per disk. Suppliers must



    
    9



Table of Contents




    quickly achieve volume production of each new generation of high
    quality and reliable hard drives, requiring access to flexible,
    high-capacity, high-quality manufacturing capabilities.


 


    Many of our OEM customers utilize
    just-in-time
    inventory management processes or supply chain business models
    that combine
    “build-to-order,”
    in which the OEM does not build until there is a firm order, and
    “contract manufacturing,” in which the OEM contracts
    assembly work to a contract manufacturer who purchases
    components and assembles the computer based on the OEM’s
    instructions. For certain OEMs, we maintain a base stock of
    finished goods inventory in facilities located near or adjacent
    to the OEM’s operations.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our need to
    adapt to our customers’ business models and maintain
    customer satisfaction, refer to Item 1A of this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Distributors


 


    We use a select group of distributors to sell our products to
    non-direct customers such as small computer and
    CE manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, online
    retailers and other resellers. Distributors accounted for
    approximately 39%, 36% and 42% of our revenue for 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively. Distributors generally enter into
    non-exclusive agreements for specific territories with us for
    purchase and redistribution of product. We grant our
    distributors limited price protection rights.


 



    Retailers


 


    We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers such as computer superstores, warehouse clubs and
    computer electronics stores, and authorize sales through
    distributors to smaller retailers. Retailers accounted for
    approximately 7%, 6% and 7% of our revenue for 2006, 2005 and
    2004, respectively. Our current retail customer base is
    primarily in the United States, Canada and Europe. The retail
    channel complements our other sales channels while helping to
    build brand awareness for WD and our products. Retailers supply
    end-users with products to upgrade their computers and
    externally store their data for backup purposes. We grant our
    retailers price protection and limited rights to return product
    on an inventory rotation basis. We also sell our branded
    products through the Internet, at our web site.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world
    including the major geographies of the Americas, Asia Pacific,
    Japan, Europe and the Middle East. Our international sales,
    which include sales to foreign subsidiaries of
    U.S. companies but do not include sales to
    U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 68%,
    65% and 63% of our revenue for 2006, 2005 and 2004,
    respectively. Sales to international customers may be subject to
    certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations,
    including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For
    further discussion regarding the risks related to sales to
    international customers, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 


    For additional information concerning revenue recognition, sales
    by geographic region and significant customer information, see
    Part II, Item 8 — Notes 1 and 10 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


 


    We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally
    and through outside firms. We target advertising, worldwide
    packaging and marketing materials to various reseller and
    end-user categories. We utilize both consumer media and, to a
    lesser extent, trade publications. We have programs under which
    we reimburse qualified distributors and retailers for certain
    marketing expenditures. We also maintain customer relationships
    by communicating with our resellers and providing end-users with
    information and support through our web site.


 



    Competition


 


    We compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives for
    desktop, mobile, enterprise and CE products. Our competitors in
    the hard drive market include Fujitsu Limited, Hitachi Global
    Storage Technologies, Samsung Electronics Incorporated, Seagate
    Technology and Toshiba Corporation. In 2006, Seagate completed
    the acquisition of Maxtor Corporation which, at the time of the
    acquisition, was one of the hard drive industry’s four
    largest suppliers.


 


    The hard drive industry is intensely competitive, with hard
    drive suppliers competing for sales to a limited number of major
    customers. Hard drives manufactured by different competitors are
    highly substitutable due to the industry mandate of technical
    form, fit and function standards. Hard drive manufacturers
    compete on the basis of product quality



    
    10



Table of Contents




    and reliability, storage capacity, unit price, product
    performance, production volume capabilities, delivery
    capability, leadership in
    time-to-market,
    time-to-volume
    and
    time-to-quality,
    service and support, and ease of doing business. The relative
    importance of these factors varies between customer and market
    segments. We believe that we are generally competitive in all of
    these factors.


 


    We believe that there are no substantial barriers for existing
    competitors to offer competing products. Therefore, we believe
    that we cannot differentiate WD hard drive products solely on
    attributes such as storage capacity, buffer size or
    time-to-market.
    Accordingly, we differentiate WD by focusing on operational
    excellence, high product quality and reliability, and designing
    and incorporating into our hard drives desirable product
    performance attributes. Such performance attributes include seek
    times, data transfer rates, intelligent caching, failure
    prediction, remote diagnostics, acoustics and data recovery. In
    addition, we emphasize non-product related attributes, including
    rapid response to our customers. Rapid response requires
    accelerated design cycles, customer delivery, production
    flexibility and timely service and support, which contribute to
    customer satisfaction. We also rely on the strength of the WD
    brand name with value-added resellers and solution providers to
    whom we sell our hard drive products directly and indirectly. We
    believe that trust in a manufacturer’s reputation, its
    execution track record and the establishment of strategic
    relationships have become important factors in the selection of
    a hard drive, particularly in a rapidly changing technology
    environment.


 


    Advances in magnetic, optical or other data storage technologies
    could result in competitive products with better performance or
    lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. High-speed
    semiconductor memory could compete with our hard drive products
    in the future. Semiconductor memory is much faster than magnetic
    hard drives, but currently is not competitive from a cost
    standpoint. Flash memory, a non-volatile semiconductor memory,
    is currently much more costly and, while it has higher
    “read” performance attributes than hard drives, it has
    lower “write” performance attributes. Flash memory
    could become competitive in the near future for applications
    requiring less storage capacity than that provided by hard
    drives.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to competition,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Service
    and Warranty


 


    We generally warrant our newly manufactured hard drives against
    defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from
    the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our
    warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or
    replacement of the hard drive. We have engaged third parties in
    Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Hungary, India,
    Korea, Russia, Singapore, Thailand and the United Arab Emirates
    to provide various levels of testing, processing
    and/or
    recertification of returned hard drives for our customers. In
    addition, we process, test and recertify returned hard drives at
    our facility in the United States.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product
    manufacturing processes, execution skills and human resources to
    continue to be successful and have the ability to grow, as
    necessary, our manufacturing operations. To be competitive, we
    must manufacture high quality hard drives with industry leading
    time-to-volume
    production at competitive unit costs. We strive to maintain
    manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing yields, and
    reliable products, while insisting that our suppliers provide
    high-quality components at competitive prices. The critical
    elements of our hard drive production are high volume, low cost
    assembly and testing, and establishment and maintenance of key
    supplier relationships. By establishing close relationships with
    our strategic component suppliers, we believe we access
    best-of-class
    manufacturing quality. In addition, we believe that our sourcing
    strategy currently enables us to have the business flexibility
    needed to select the highest quality low cost of ownership
    suppliers as product designs and technologies evolve.


 


    Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the
    assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and
    thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean
    room” environment that demands skill in process engineering
    and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs
    of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing
    process consists of modular production units, each of which
    contains a number of work cells.


 


    We manufacture hard drives in Malaysia and Thailand. We
    continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to
    increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease
    manufacturing costs. For example, during 2002, in response to an
    increase in demand and to capitalize on the local supplier base,
    we completed the acquisition of a



    
    11



Table of Contents




    Thailand manufacturing facility. We continually evaluate which
    steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation
    and how automated manufacturing processes can improve
    productivity and reduce manufacturing costs.


 


    In July 2003, we purchased substantially all of the assets of
    Read-Rite Corporation, formerly one of our suppliers of heads,
    including its wafer fabrication equipment in Fremont, California
    and its slider fabrication facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand. We
    upgraded and enhanced these facilities to meet the demands of
    new technologies consistent with our hard drive production
    facilities. We use these facilities to design and manufacture a
    substantial portion of the heads, HGAs and HSAs we include in
    the hard drives we manufacture.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to manufacturing,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Materials
    and Supplies


 


    The principal components currently used in the manufacture of
    our hard drives are magnetic heads and related HGAs, HSAs,
    media, controllers, spindle motors and mechanical parts used in
    the head disk assembly. We use both custom and standard
    semiconductor components such as logic, memory and
    microprocessor devices obtained from other manufacturers, as
    well as a wide variety of other parts, including printed circuit
    boards, connectors, cables, and other interconnect technology.
    We also design and manufacture a substantial portion of the
    heads required for the hard drives we manufacture. We purchase a
    portion of these components from third party suppliers.


 


    We acquire all of the remaining components for our products from
    third party suppliers. We generally retain multiple suppliers
    for each of our component requirements but in some instances use
    sole sources for business reasons. For example, during 2006, we
    purchased media from several outside vendors including Fuji
    Electric, Hoya Corp., Komag Inc. and Showa Denko KK. We have
    volume purchase agreements with Komag Inc. and Showa Denko KK
    which obligate us to purchase from each supplier, and obligates
    each supplier to supply to us, certain specified media volumes
    in accordance with the terms in the agreements.


 


    We sole-source some components, such as custom integrated
    circuit devices for certain products from STMicroelectronics and
    Marvell Semiconductor, Inc. Because of their custom nature,
    these products require significant design-in periods and long
    lead times. There has been a trend in integrated circuit design
    toward increased integration of various separate circuits. We
    expect this trend to continue in custom integrated circuits for
    hard drives.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our component
    supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Backlog


 


    Historically, a substantial portion of our orders has been for
    shipments of hard drives within 30 to 60 days of the
    placement of the order. We generally negotiate pricing, order
    lead times, product support requirements and other terms and
    conditions before receiving a computer manufacturer’s first
    purchase order for a product. Customers’ purchase orders
    typically may be canceled with relatively short notice to us,
    with little or no cost to the customer, or modified by customers
    to provide for delivery at a later date. In addition, we make
    many of our sales to OEMs under
    just-in-time
    delivery contracts that do not generally require firm order
    commitments by the customer until the time of sale. Instead, we
    receive a periodic forecast of requirements from the customer
    and invoice the customer upon shipment of the product from the
    just-in-time
    warehouse. Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a
    particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels
    of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to earlier
    periods.


 



    Patents,
    Licenses and Proprietary Information


 


    We own numerous patents and have many patent applications in
    process. We believe that, although our patents and patent
    applications have considerable value, the successful
    manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily
    upon the technical and managerial competence of our personnel.
    Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our
    future success.


 


    In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that
    our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our
    process technology, is an important factor in our success. We
    rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions
    and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary
    information. Despite these



    
    12



Table of Contents




    safeguards, there is a risk that competitors may obtain and use
    such information. The laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we
    conduct business may provide less protection for confidential
    information than the United States.


 


    We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties
    to manufacture and sell WD products. We believe that we have
    adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in
    addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete
    successfully in the hard drive industry. For additional
    discussion of risks related to our ownership and use of
    intellectual property, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Environmental
    Regulation


 


    We are subject to a variety of regulations in connection with
    our operations. We believe that we have obtained or are in the
    process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
    operations. For additional discussion of risks related to
    environmental regulation, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Employees


 


    As of June 30, 2006, we employed a total of 24,750
    employees worldwide. This represents an increase in headcount of
    approximately 7% since July 1, 2005 and an increase of
    approximately 42% since July 2, 2004. Many of our employees
    are highly skilled, and our continued success depends in part
    upon our ability to attract and retain such employees.
    Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs, which we
    believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those offered by
    our competitors. We and most of our competitors nevertheless
    have difficulty at times in hiring and retaining certain skilled
    personnel. We have engaged consultants and contract personnel to
    fill these needs until full-time employees could be recruited.
    We consider our employee relations to be good.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We maintain an Internet web site at
    http://www.westerndigital.com. Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a)
    and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    are available on our web site at http://www.westerndigital.com,
    free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
    electronic filing of these reports with the SEC. Any materials
    we file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public
    Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
    Additional information about the operation of the Public
    Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    In addition, the SEC maintains a web site at http://www.sec.gov
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
    other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC, including us.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Listed below are all of our executive officers as of
    June 30, 2006, followed by a brief account of their
    business experience during the past five years. Executive
    officers are normally appointed annually by the Board of
    Directors at a meeting of the directors immediately following
    the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. There are no family
    relationships among these officers nor any arrangements or
    understandings between any officer and any other person pursuant
    to which an officer was selected.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	




    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    Matthew E. Massengill
    



 




    45
    




 


    Chairman of the Board
    





    Arif Shakeel(1)
    



 




    51
    




 


    Chief Executive Officer
    





    John F. Coyne(1)
    



 




    56
    




 


    President, Chief Operating Officer
    





    Raymond M. Bukaty
    



 




    49
    




 


    Senior Vice President,
    Administration, General Counsel and Secretary
    





    Stephen D. Milligan
    



 




    43
    




 


    Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer
    





    Hossein Moghadam
    



 




    62
    




 


    Senior Vice President and Chief
    Technology Officer
    








 



 






    
    
    



    
    (1) 
    
    
    As disclosed in the Company’s press release on
    November 2, 2007, Mr. Coyne will become our President
    and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Shakeel will relinquish
    the role of Chief Executive Officer but will continue to be
    employed by us as Special Advisor to the Chief Executive
    Officer. Mr. Coyne has joined our Board of Directors and
    will stand for election at the next Annual Meeting along with
    Mr. Shakeel.





    
    13



Table of Contents




    Mr. Massengill joined us in 1985 and has served in various
    executive capacities. From October 1999 until January 2000, he
    served as Chief Operating Officer, from January 2000 until
    January 2002, he served as President, and from January 2000
    until October 2005, he served as Chief Executive Officer. He has
    served as Chairman of the Board since November 2001.


 


    Mr. Shakeel joined us in 1985 and has served in various
    executive capacities. From February 2000 until April 2001, he
    served as Executive Vice President and General Manager of Hard
    Disk Drive Solutions, from April 2001 until January 2003, he
    served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer,
    and from January 2002 until June 2006, he served as President.
    He was named Chief Executive Officer in October 2005.


 


    Mr. Coyne joined us in 1983 and has served in various
    executive capacities. From November 2002 until June 2005,
    Mr. Coyne served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide
    Operations, from June 2005 until September 2005, he served as
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations and from November
    2005 until June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and
    Chief Operations Officer. Effective June 2006, he was named
    President, Chief Operating Officer.


 


    Mr. Bukaty joined us in 1999 as Vice President, Corporate
    Law. Mr. Bukaty was appointed to Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary in March 2002, and to Senior Vice
    President in January 2004, and assumed his current position as
    Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary in October 2004.


 


    Mr. Milligan joined us in September 2002 as Vice President,
    Finance. He was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer in January 2004. Before joining us,
    Mr. Milligan served in a variety of senior finance
    capacities at Dell between April 1997 and September 2002,
    including Assistant Controller, European Controller, North
    European Finance Director, Director of Finance for the Americas,
    and Controller for Dell Financial Services.


 


    Dr. Moghadam joined us in October 2000 as Vice President,
    Engineering and site manager of our San Jose facility. He
    served as Senior Vice President, Research and Development from
    November 2004 to November 2005 and was appointed Senior Vice
    President and Chief Technology Officer in November 2005.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    Declines
    in average selling prices (“ASPs”) in the hard drive
    industry adversely affect our operating results.


 


    The hard drive industry historically has experienced declining
    ASPs. Our ASPs tend to decline when competitors lower prices as
    a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity,
    liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain
    market share. Our ASPs also decline when there is a shift in the
    mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products
    increase relative to those of higher priced products. If ASPs in
    the hard drive industry continue to decline, then our ASPs will
    also likely decline, which would adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    If we
    fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets
    for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Over the past few years the consumer market for computers has
    shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. If we are
    not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive
    for the low-cost PC market, our share of that market will likely
    fall, which could harm our operating results.


 


    The market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of
    devices and products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we,
    that as content increasingly convert to digital technology from
    the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and
    consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives
    will be found in many CE products other than computers.


 


    In addition, we expect that the consumer market for multi-media
    applications, including audio-video products, incorporating high
    capacity, and handheld consumer storage will continue to grow.
    However, because this market remains relatively new, accurate
    forecasts for future growth remain challenging. Moreover, some
    of the devices, such as personal video recorders and digital
    video recorders, or other products outside of the CE market, may
    require attributes not currently offered in our products,
    resulting in a need to expend capital to develop new interfaces,
    form factors, technical specifications or hard drive features,
    increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding
    incremental revenue at this stage. If we are not successful in
    continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to
    develop new products for the emerging CE market, or if we are
    required to incur significant costs in developing such products,
    it may harm our operating results.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    Our
    prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable
    end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives.


 


    Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems
    manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to
    existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in
    the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand
    for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the hard drive
    market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead
    to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price
    competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be
    forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which
    could result in lower revenue and gross margins.


 



    Our
    failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for
    our products could adversely affect our business and financial
    results.


 


    The hard drive industry faces difficulties in accurately
    forecasting market and customer demand for its products. The
    variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part
    on these forecasts. If our forecasts exceed actual market
    demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our
    forecasts, then we could experience periods of product
    oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial
    performance. If our forecasts do not meet actual market demand,
    of if market demand increases significantly beyond our
    forecasts, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product
    needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our
    competitors are able to meet customer demands.


 


    We also use forecasts in making decisions regarding investment
    of our resources. For example, as the hard drive industry
    transitions from the Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment
    (“PATA”) interface to the SATA interface, we may
    invest more resources in the development of products using the
    SATA interface. If our forecasts regarding the replacement of
    the PATA interface with the SATA interface are inaccurate, we
    may not have products available to meet our customers’
    needs.


 


    In addition, although we receive forecasts from our customers,
    they are not obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. In
    particular, sales volumes in the distribution channel are
    volatile and harder to predict than sales to our OEM customers.
    We consider these forecasts in determining our component needs
    and our inventory requirements. If we fail to accurately
    forecast our customers’ product demands, we may have
    inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components,
    which could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Increases
    in areal density may outpace customers’ demand for storage
    capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing
    to pay for new products.


 


    Historically, the industry has experienced periods of increased
    areal density growth rates. Although in recent years there has
    been a decrease in the rate of areal density growth, if industry
    conditions return to periods of increased growth rates, the rate
    of increase in areal density may exceed the increase in our
    customers’ demand for aggregate storage capacity.
    Furthermore, our customers’ demand for storage capacity may
    not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result
    of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital
    rights management or otherwise. These factors could lead to our
    customers’ storage capacity needs being satisfied with
    lower capacity hard drives at lower prices, thereby decreasing
    our revenue. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand
    for storage capacity, our ASPs could decline, which could
    adversely affect our results of operations.


 



    A low
    cost structure is critical to our operating results and
    increased costs may adversely affect our operating
    margins.


 


    A low cost structure for our products, including critical
    components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of
    our business and our operating results depend on our ability to
    maintain competitive cost structures on new and established
    products. If our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost
    structure for manufacturing hard drives, and we are unable to
    match their cost structure, we could be at a competitive
    disadvantage to those competitors. Additionally, there are costs
    for certain commodity materials, an increase in which increases
    our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key
    components. For example, shortages of materials such as steel
    and aluminum increase our costs and may result in lower
    operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate
    these increased costs. The rising cost of oil also increases our
    costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable
    to pass such increased costs through to our customers.



    
    15



Table of Contents





    Changes
    in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial
    results.


 


    Product life cycles have been extending since the middle of
    calendar year 2002 due in large part to a decrease in the rate
    of hard drive areal density growth. However, there can be no
    assurance that this trend will continue. If longer product life
    cycles continue, we may need to develop new technologies or
    programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to
    maintain competitive pricing for that product. This may result
    in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our
    gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our
    operating results. If product life cycles shorten, it may be
    more difficult to recover the cost of product development before
    the product becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of
    product development in the future could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 



    If we
    fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to
    increase areal density, we may fail to remain
    competitive.


 


    New products in the hard drive market typically require higher
    areal densities than previous product generations, posing
    formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal
    densities require existing head and media technology to be
    improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on
    a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products
    during a technology transition increases the likelihood of
    unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high quality
    new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put
    us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these
    results.


 



    A
    fundamental change in recording technology could result in
    significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us
    at a competitive disadvantage.


 


    Currently the majority of the hard drive industry uses giant
    magnetoresistive head technology, which allows significantly
    higher storage capacities than the previously utilized thin-film
    head technology. However, the industry is developing and now
    implementing new recording technologies that may enable greater
    recording densities than currently available using
    magnetoresistive head technology, including perpendicular,
    current
    perpendicular-to-plane,
    and tunneling junction technology, each of which represent a
    significant change in fundamental recording technology. The
    industry is experiencing a fundamental shift in recording
    technology, this shift in technology is difficult to implement
    and historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental
    change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to
    successfully and timely adjust their designs and processes to
    accommodate the new technology, fails to remain competitive.
    There are some technologies, such as heat assisted magnetic
    recording, that, if they can be implemented by a competitor on a
    commercially viable basis, will represent a revolutionary
    recording technology that could put us at a competitive
    disadvantage.


 


    As a result, we could incur substantial costs in developing new
    technologies, such as, heads, media, and tools to remain
    competitive. If we fail to successfully implement these new
    technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our
    competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able
    to offer products with capacities that our customers desire.
    Furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new
    technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to
    ensure our access to components that accommodate the new
    technology. For example, new recording technology requires
    changes in the manufacturing process of media, which may cause
    longer production times and reduce the overall availability of
    media in the industry. Additionally, the new technology requires
    a greater degree of integration between heads and media which
    may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this
    technology. These results would increase our operating costs,
    which may negatively impact our operating results.


 



    The
    difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of
    areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may
    impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost
    reduction.


 


    Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is
    determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal
    density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic
    bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk.
    Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information
    can be stored on a single platter. Historically, we have been
    able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through
    increases in areal density. Increases in areal density mean that
    the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same
    capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost.
    However, because increases in areal density have become more
    difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require
    increases in component costs. In addition, other opportunities
    to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. Our
    inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our
    operating results.



    
    16



Table of Contents





    If we
    fail to maintain effective relationships with our major
    component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at
    risk and our profitability could suffer.


 


    Under our business model, we do not manufacture many of the
    component parts used in our hard drives, however, for some of
    our product families, we do make most of our own heads. As a
    result, the success of our products depends on our ability to
    gain access to and integrate parts that are “best in
    class” from reliable component suppliers. To do so, we must
    effectively manage our relationships with our major component
    suppliers. We must also effectively integrate different products
    from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on
    technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations
    of heads and media components. In August 2003, we settled
    litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of
    read channel devices for our hard drives. As a result of the
    disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was
    at risk until another supplier’s read channel devices could
    be designed into our products. Similar disputes with other
    strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 



    Dependence
    on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and
    manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or
    increased costs.


 


    Certain components are available from a limited number of
    suppliers. Because we depend on a limited number of suppliers
    for certain hard drive components and manufacturing equipment,
    each of the following could significantly harm our operating
    results:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an increase in the cost of such components or equipment;



 


     
        • 

    
    an extended shortage of required components or equipment;



 


     
        • 

    
    consolidation of key suppliers;



 


     
        • 

    
    failure of a key supplier’s business process; or



 


     
        • 

    
    the failure of key suppliers to remain in business, adjust to
    market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production
    requirements.





 


    Our future operating results may also depend substantially on
    our suppliers’ ability to timely qualify their components
    in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these
    components in sufficient volumes to meet our production
    requirements. A number of the components that we use are
    available from only a single or limited number of qualified
    outside suppliers, and may be used across multiple product
    lines. In addition, some of the components (or component types)
    used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile
    telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant
    simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or
    component type) from several high volume industries, resulting
    in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short
    supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue
    with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in
    obtaining that component. For example, the hard drive industry
    is currently facing a tightness in the availability of media
    (rotating magnetic disks) components, and there are currently
    only three independent suppliers of aluminum media and three
    independent suppliers of glass media in the market. Several of
    our competitors have an internal supply of media therefore
    allowing them to better withstand a shortage of media while, if
    we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of media, or other
    necessary components, we may experience production delays which
    could cause us loss of revenue. If a component becomes
    unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue.


 


    In addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or
    testing processes is available only from a limited number of
    suppliers. Some of this equipment uses materials that at times
    could be in short supply. If these materials are not available,
    or are not available in the quantities we require for our
    manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture
    our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant
    loss of revenue.


 



    Contractual
    commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying
    increased charges and cash advances for such
    components.


 


    To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide
    significant lead times when buying these components. As a
    result, we may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel
    orders, which may occur when we make technology transitions or
    when our component needs change. In addition, we have entered
    into contractual commitments with component suppliers, such as
    suppliers of media, and may enter into contractual commitments
    with other



    
    17



Table of Contents




    component suppliers, in an effort to increase and stabilize the
    supply of those components, and enable us to purchase such
    components at favorable prices. Some of these commitments
    require or may require us to buy a substantial number of
    components from the supplier or make significant cash advances
    to the supplier, however these commitments may not result in a
    satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such
    components.


 



    We have
    high-volume hard drive manufacturing facilities in Malaysia and
    Thailand, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any
    of these facilities and localized risks to personnel in these
    locations.


 


    Our hard drives are manufactured in facilities in Malaysia and
    Thailand. A fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition
    or event such as a power outage that adversely affects any of
    these facilities or our ability to manufacture could limit the
    total volume of hard drives we are able to manufacture and
    result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating
    results. Similarly, a localized health risk affecting our
    personnel in Malaysia and Thailand, such as a new pandemic
    influenza in Asia Pacific, could impair the total volume of hard
    drives that we are able to manufacture.


 



    Our head
    manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication
    facility in Fremont, California and a single head gimbal/head
    stack assembly facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand, which subjects
    us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at either
    of these facilities are disrupted.


 


    As we have previously discussed in public statements, our
    business plan presently contemplates that we plan to design and
    manufacture approximately 70% of the heads required for the hard
    drives we manufacture. We fabricate wafers in our Fremont,
    California facility, and the wafers are then sent to our
    Thailand facility for slider fabrication/wafer slicing, HGA
    assembly and testing, and HSA assembly and testing. A fire,
    flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as
    a power outage that adversely affects our facilities in Fremont,
    California or Bang Pa-In, Thailand would significantly affect
    our supply of heads and limit our ability to manufacture hard
    drives which would result in a substantial loss of sales and
    revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results.


 



    Our head
    manufacturing operations may result in additional costs and
    risks to our business.


 


    Our vertical integration of head manufacturing resulted in a
    fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now
    manufacture heads for use in many of the hard drives we
    manufacture. Consequently, we make more capital investments than
    we would if we were not vertically integrated and carry a higher
    percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our prior financial
    business model. If the overall level of production decreases for
    any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match
    sales, our head manufacturing assets may face under-utilization
    that may impact our results of operations. We are therefore
    subject to additional risks related to overall asset
    utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of
    utilization to drive competitive costs, and the need for assured
    supply of components, especially hard drive media, that is
    optimized to work with our heads.


 


    In addition, we may incur additional risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    insufficient head sources if we are unable to manufacture a
    sufficient supply of heads to satisfy our needs;



 


     
        • 

    
    third party head suppliers may not continue to do business with
    us or may not do business with us on the same terms and
    conditions we have previously enjoyed;



 


     
        • 

    
    claims that our manufacturing of heads may infringe certain
    intellectual property rights of other companies; and



 


     
        • 

    
    difficulties locating suitable manufacturing equipment for our
    head manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such
    equipment.





 


    If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our
    head manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be
    disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit
    margins and negatively impacting our operating results.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Our
    operating results may be adversely affected if we fail to
    optimize the overall quality,
    time-to-market
    and
    time-to-volume
    of new and established products.


 


    To achieve consistent success with our customers who manufacture
    computers, systems and CE products, we must balance several key
    attributes such as
    time-to-market,
    time-to-volume,
    quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. If
    we fail to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    maintain overall quality of products on new and established
    programs;



 


     
        • 

    
    produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our
    customers demand while managing the integration of new and
    established technologies;



 


     
        • 

    
    develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall
    specifications or features that our customers may require for
    their business needs;



 


     
        • 

    
    obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products,
    redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing
    products;



 


     
        • 

    
    qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by
    meeting all of our customers’ needs for performance,
    quality and features;



 


     
        • 

    
    maintain an adequate supply of components required to
    manufacture our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our
    product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin
    speeds in response to changes in customers’ product
    demands; or



 


     
        • 

    
    consistently meet stated quality requirements on delivered
    products, our operating results could be adversely affected.





 



    If we are
    unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads with leading
    technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products
    may be significantly diminished, which could materially and
    adversely affect our business and financial results.


 


    Under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a
    substantial portion of the heads used in some of the product
    families of hard drives we manufacture. Consequently, we are
    more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts
    and less able to take advantage of head technologies developed
    by other head manufacturers. Technology transition for head
    designs is critical to increasing our volume production of
    heads. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be
    successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and
    manufacturing heads for products using future technologies. We
    also may not effectively transition our head design and head
    technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the
    technologies necessary to satisfy our customers’ product
    needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads we
    manufacture. In addition, we may not have access to external
    sources of supply without incurring substantial costs. For
    example, we recently began using perpendicular recording heads
    in certain of our products. We face various challenges in
    ramping the manufacturing volume of these products and if we do
    not adequately address these challenges, or if we encounter
    quality problems with the heads we manufacture for these
    products, our continued shipment of these products may be
    delayed, impairing our ability to realize revenue from these
    products.


 



    If we
    fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not
    purchase any units of a particular product line, which would
    have a significant adverse impact on our sales.


 


    We regularly engage in new product qualification with our
    customers. To be considered for qualification, we must be among
    the leaders in
    time-to-market
    with our new products. Once a product is accepted for
    qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification
    process can result in our losing sales to that customer until
    the next generation of products is introduced. The effect of
    missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the
    limited number of high volume OEMs, which continue to
    consolidate their share of the desktop, mobile and CE markets.
    If product life cycles continue to be extended due to a decrease
    in the rate of areal density growth, we may have a significantly
    longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a
    new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive
    position. These risks are increased because we expect cost
    improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining
    gross margins on our current generation products.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    We are
    subject to risks related to product defects, which could result
    in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in
    excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than
    anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability
    limitations.


 


    We warrant our products for up to five years. We test our hard
    drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of
    means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will
    reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become
    apparent until after the products have been sold into the
    market. Accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will
    occur, which could require a product recall. Product recalls can
    be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during
    the product’s warranty period, we may be required to
    replace the defective product. In addition, a product recall may
    damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose
    market share with our customers, including our OEM customers.


 


    Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions
    of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper
    installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the
    possession of someone other than us. We record an accrual for
    estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We
    may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty
    provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues
    related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses
    are significant, it could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and results of operations.


 



    Current
    or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop
    an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match.


 


    It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain
    an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or
    process technology, which may allow them to offer products or
    services that have a significant advantage over the products and
    services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity,
    performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes.


 


    Higher capacity storage needs have typically been better served
    by magnetic hard drives than flash memory as hard drive
    manufacturers can offer better value at high capacities, while
    lower capacity needs have been successfully served by solid
    state storage such as flash memory technology. Advances in
    magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage
    technologies could result in competitive products that have
    better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our
    products. If we fail to be cost competitive against flash
    memory, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors
    using semiconductor technology. For example, flash memory
    recently achieved improvements in their cost structure and we
    believe reduced their pricing, thus more effectively competing
    with our
    1.0-inch
    hard drive product. If we are unable to lower the cost structure
    of future generations of
    sub-2.5-inch
    form factor hard drive products through technology advances such
    as increased storage capacity, this product category could be at
    a competitive disadvantage to flash technology.


 



    Further
    industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to
    our competitors.


 


    The hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the
    past several years, including the recent acquisition of Maxtor
    Corporation by Seagate Technology. Consolidation by our
    competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources
    and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a
    competitive disadvantage. Additionally, continued industry
    consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component
    availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure.


 



    Sales in
    the distribution channel are important to our business, and if
    we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if
    distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating
    results could suffer.


 


    Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers.
    We face significant competition in this channel as a result of
    limited product qualification programs and a significant focus
    on price and availability of product. If we fail to remain
    competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and
    support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors,
    and our operating results could suffer. We also face significant
    risk in the distribution market for hard drives. If the
    distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing PC growth
    rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer
    buying preference from white box to branded PCs, or we
    experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the
    distribution channel, then our operating results would be
    adversely affected.



    
    20



Table of Contents





    The hard
    drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by
    significant shifts in market share among the major
    competitors.


 


    The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases
    in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price
    reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess
    inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition,
    rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and
    profitability of sales of existing products and increase the
    risk of inventory obsolescence. We also face competition from
    other companies that produce alternative storage technologies
    like flash memory. These factors, taken together, may result in
    significant shifts in market share among the industry’s
    major participants. In addition, product recalls can lead to a
    loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    Some of
    our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard
    drive industry may be able to sell disk drives at lower margins
    that we cannot match.


 


    Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their
    revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry.
    Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to
    achieve profitability, they may be able to sell hard drives at
    lower margins and operate their hard drive business unit at a
    loss while still remaining profitable overall. In addition, if
    these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products
    to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard
    drives at low margins. Our results of operations may be
    adversely affected if we can not successfully compete with these
    companies.


 



    If we do
    not successfully expand into new hard drive markets, our
    business may suffer.


 


    To remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to
    offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. We
    currently offer a variety of
    3.5-inch
    hard drives for the desktop, enterprise, CE and external storage
    markets, and we also offer
    2.5-inch
    form factor hard drives for the mobile, CE and external storage
    markets. However, demand for hard drives may shift to products
    in smaller other form factors, which our competitors may already
    offer. We recently entered into the
    sub-2.5-inch
    hard drive market with a
    1.0-inch
    hard drive product, however the demand for the
    1.0-inch
    form factor drive is significantly less than our initial
    estimates of this market, thus impairing our ability to realize
    revenue from this product.


 


    In addition, the desktop and enterprise markets are
    transitioning from parallel interfaces, such as PATA and SCSI,
    to serial interfaces, such as SATA and SAS, to handle higher
    data transfer rates. We currently offer SATA products; however,
    the transition of technology and the introduction of new
    products are challenging and create risks. For example,
    acceptance of the SATA interface may not continue to grow, or
    customers may choose to purchase alternative interfaces that may
    not be compatible with future generations of SATA hard drives.
    Moreover, our customers may require new SATA features that we
    may not be able to deliver in a timely and cost effective manner.


 


    While we continue to develop new products and look to expand
    into other hard drive markets, the success of our new product
    introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including
    difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp, market acceptance,
    effective management of inventory levels in line with
    anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products
    may have quality problems or other defects in the early stages
    of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those
    products. Further, we need to identify how any of the hard drive
    markets that we are expanding into may have different
    characteristics from the desktop market, such as, demand volume
    growth rates, demand seasonality, product generations
    development rates, customer concentrations, and cost and
    performance requirements, and we must properly address these
    differences. If we fail to successfully develop and manufacture
    new products and expand into new hard drive markets, customers
    may decrease the amount of our products that they purchase, and
    we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products.


 



    Expanding
    into new hard drive markets exposes our business to different
    seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    The CE markets that we are attempting to expand into have
    different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared
    to the PC market. By expanding into these markets, we become
    exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different than, and in
    addition to, those of the PC market. For example, because the
    primary customer for products such as consumer handheld devices
    and game consoles are individual consumers, these markets
    experience a dramatic increase in



    
    21



Table of Contents




    demand during the winter holiday season. If we do not properly
    adjust our supply to new demand cycles such as this, we risk
    having excess inventory during periods of low demand and
    insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, therefore
    harming our operating results.


 



    If we do
    not successfully continue to expand into the mobile market, our
    business may suffer.


 


    We began shipping
    2.5-inch
    form factor hard drives for the mobile market during calendar
    year 2004. Although many of our customers who purchase
    3.5-inch
    form factor hard drives also purchase the
    2.5-inch
    form factor drives, the markets are characterized by some
    different competitors and different overall requirements. If we
    are unable to adapt to these differences and meet the new
    requirements, we would have a competitive disadvantage to
    companies that are successful in this regard, and our business
    and financial results could suffer. In addition, if we continue
    to incur significant costs in manufacturing and selling the
    2.5-inch
    hard drives, and if we are unable to recover those costs from
    sales of the products, then we may not be able to compete
    successfully in this market and our operating results may suffer.


 



    Selling
    to the retail market is an important part of our business, and
    if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market
    acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could
    suffer.


 


    We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers, for example, computer superstores and CE stores,
    and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and
    online resellers. Our current retail customer base is primarily
    in the United States, Canada and Europe. We are facing increased
    competition from other companies for shelf space at major
    retailers, which could result in lower revenues. If we fail to
    successfully maintain a customer preference for Western Digital
    brand products or fail to successfully expand into multiple
    channels, our operating results may be adversely affected. In
    certain markets, we are trying to grow market share, and in the
    process may face strong competition, which could result in lower
    gross margins. We will continue to introduce new products in the
    retail market that incorporate our disk drives. There can be no
    assurance that these products gain market acceptance, and if
    they do not, our operating results could suffer.


 



    Loss of
    market share with or by a key customer could harm our operating
    results.


 


    A majority of our revenue comes from about a dozen customers.
    For example, during 2006, one customer, Dell, accounted for more
    than 12% of our revenue, and sales to our top 10 customers,
    including Dell, accounted for 47% of revenue. These customers
    have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can
    make substantial demands on us, including demands on product
    pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the
    allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Even if we
    successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer
    generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of
    products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate
    its relationship with us at any time. Our ability to maintain
    strong relationships with our principal customers is essential
    to our future performance. If we lose a key customer, if any of
    our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require
    us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a
    customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key
    customer suffers financial hardship then our operating results
    would likely be harmed. In addition, if customer pressures
    require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are
    diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a
    particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our
    revenue.


 



    We may be
    unable to retain our key personnel and skilled
    employees.


 


    Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key
    personnel and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely
    difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled
    employees in the hard drive industry is intense. Volatility or
    lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely
    affect our ability to retain key personnel or skilled employees
    who have received equity compensation. If we are unable to
    retain our existing key personnel or skilled employees, or hire
    and integrate new key personnel or skilled employees, or if we
    fail to implement a succession plan to prepare qualified
    individuals to join us upon the departure of a member of our key
    personnel, our operating results would likely be harmed.



    
    22



Table of Contents





    Manufacturing
    and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous
    risks.


 


    We are subject to risks associated with our foreign
    manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    obtaining requisite United States of America and foreign
    governmental permits and approvals;



 


     
        • 

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions;



 


     
        • 

    
    political instability and civil unrest;



 


     
        • 

    
    limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time
    required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods
    of price declines;



 


     
        • 

    
    higher freight rates;



 


     
        • 

    
    labor problems;



 


     
        • 

    
    trade restrictions or higher tariffs;



 


     
        • 

    
    exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations;



 


     
        • 

    
    increasing labor and overhead costs; and



 


     
        • 

    
    loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements
    or treaties with foreign tax authorities.





 



    Terrorist
    attacks may adversely affect our business and operating
    results.


 


    The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war
    or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and
    insurance markets and have significantly increased the
    political, economic and social instability in some of the
    geographic areas in which we operate. Acts of terrorism, either
    domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and
    instability. To the extent this results in disruption or delays
    of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products,
    our business, operating results and financial condition could be
    adversely affected.


 



    We face
    litigation risks relating to our historical stock option grants
    that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of
    our business.


 


    Several purported derivative actions were filed nominally on our
    behalf against certain of our current and former directors and
    officers in connection with our historical stock option granting
    practices. See Part I, Item 3, “Legal
    Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these
    proceedings. We are and may in the future be subject to other
    litigation or government investigations arising in connection
    with such option practices. These proceedings may be
    time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business
    operations, and the outcome of any such proceeding is difficult
    to predict. The defense of such lawsuits or investigations could
    result in significant expense and the diversion of our
    management’s time and attention from the operation of our
    business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business
    objectives. Some or all of the amount we may be required to pay
    to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all
    of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance.


 


    Under indemnification agreements we have entered into with our
    current and former officers and directors, we are required to
    indemnify them, and advance expenses to them, in connection with
    their participation in proceedings arising out of their service
    to us. These payments may be material.


 



    The
    nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property
    and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of
    significant litigation.


 


    The hard drive industry has been characterized by significant
    litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and
    other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and
    other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy
    and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the
    results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in
    adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or
    be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the
    aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition or results of operations.



    
    23



Table of Contents




    We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices
    of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to
    time. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be
    required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our
    existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology.
    Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly.
    In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against
    us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for
    any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us
    in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued
    barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could
    also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or
    lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement,
    treble damages. Any of these results would likely increase our
    costs and harm our operating results.


 



    Our
    reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary
    information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients
    of our business could be copied by competitors.


 


    Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary
    nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual
    property such as our process technology. Despite safeguards, to
    the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise
    capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or
    impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also,
    the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our
    intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the
    United States. In addition to patent protection of intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon
    employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and
    contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to
    protect our proprietary information. However, any of our
    registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be
    challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might
    harm our operating results.


 



    Environmental
    regulation costs could harm our operating results.


 


    We may be subject to various state, federal and international
    laws and regulations governing the environment, including those
    restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic
    products and making producers of those products financially
    responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and
    disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have
    been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate,
    including various European Union member countries. For example,
    the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of
    Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic
    Equipment (RoHS) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic
    Equipment (WEEE) directives. RoHS prohibits the use of certain
    substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard
    drives, put on the market after July 1, 2006. The WEEE
    directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic
    equipment onto the market in the EU to put a clearly
    identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to
    EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and
    provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the
    equipment. Each EU member country has enacted, or is expected to
    soon enact, legislation clarifying what is and what is not
    covered by the WEEE directive in that country. However, there is
    still some uncertainty in certain EU countries as to which party
    involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic
    equipment will be ultimately responsible for registration,
    reporting and disposal. Similar legislation may be enacted in
    other locations where we manufacture or sell our products, such
    as Asia. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws
    and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component
    suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. If
    we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may
    refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws
    and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject
    to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if
    we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be
    subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. If
    we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with
    environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses
    in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial
    condition or operating results could suffer.


 



    Fluctuations
    in currency exchange rates as a result of our international
    operations may negatively affect our operating
    results.


 


    Because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs
    are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
    Further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Thai Baht and
    of the Malaysian Ringgit may negatively impact our operating
    results.



    
    24



Table of Contents



 


    The Thai Baht is a free floating currency while the Malaysian
    Ringgit exchange rate policy recently defined by the Malaysian
    government is one of a managed float. We have attempted to
    manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by,
    among other things, entering into short-term, forward contracts.
    However, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can
    be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place.
    Currently, we hedge the Thai Baht, Euro and British Pound
    Sterling with forward contracts.


 


    If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most
    foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged
    manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion
    of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated.
    Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues
    since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated.


 



    Increases
    in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses
    and an increase in our operating costs.


 


    Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model
    that requires us to contract directly with companies that
    provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers. Because
    these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as
    our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to
    increased credit risks. Our agreements with our OEM customers
    may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate
    this increased credit risk. Additionally, as we attempt to
    expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into emerging
    economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the customers
    in these regions may have a relatively short operating history,
    making it more difficult for us to accurately access the
    associated credit risks. Any credit losses we may suffer as a
    result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses
    from any significant customer, would increase our operating
    costs, which may negatively impact our operating results.


 



    Inaccurate
    projections of demand for our product can cause large
    fluctuations in our quarterly results.


 


    We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in
    the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us
    to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter.
    In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be
    subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of
    other factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major
    customers;



 


     
        • 

    
    our product mix;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in the prices of our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    manufacturing delays or interruptions;



 


     
        • 

    
    acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our
    products;



 


     
        • 

    
    variations in the cost of components for our products;



 


     
        • 

    
    limited availability of components that we obtain from a single
    or a limited number of suppliers;



 


     
        • 

    
    competition and consolidation in the data storage industry;



 


     
        • 

    
    seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to
    technological advances; and



 


     
        • 

    
    availability and rates of transportation.





 



    Rapidly
    changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult
    to predict actual results.


 


    We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and
    assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting.
    The highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly
    changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual
    results may differ significantly from our estimates and
    assumptions. These changes have impacted our financial results
    in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Key
    estimates and assumptions for us include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    accruals for warranty costs related to product defects;






    
    25



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and
    allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and
    distributors;



 


     
        • 

    
    inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of
    cost or market value (net realizable value);



 


     
        • 

    
    reserves for doubtful accounts;



 


     
        • 

    
    accruals for product returns;



 


     
        • 

    
    accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and



 


     
        • 

    
    reserves for deferred tax assets.





 



    The
    market price of our common stock is volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue
    to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may
    significantly affect the market price of our common stock:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;



 


     
        • 

    
    announcements of technological innovations by us or our
    competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of
    sales of our existing products and increase the risk of
    inventory obsolescence;



 


     
        • 

    
    new products introduced by us or our competitors;



 


     
        • 

    
    periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price
    erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry
    consolidation;



 


     
        • 

    
    developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights;



 


     
        • 

    
    conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and
    content management, storage and communication
    industries; and



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating
    specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general.





 


    In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock
    market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from
    time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many
    high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be
    unrelated to the operating performance of the companies.


 


    Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against
    companies after periods of volatility in the market price of
    their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against
    us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such
    matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of
    resources and management’s attention.


 



    We may be
    unable to raise future capital through debt or equity
    financing.


 


    Due to the risks described herein, in the future we may be
    unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital
    expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital
    and research and development. We have a credit facility which
    matures on September 20, 2009. If we decide to increase or
    accelerate our capital expenditures or research and development
    efforts, or if results of operations do not meet our
    expectations, we could require additional debt or equity
    financing. However, we cannot ensure that additional financing
    will be available to us or available on acceptable terms. An
    equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing
    stockholders.


 



    If our
    internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial
    results or our stock price may be adversely affected.


 


    Our evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of
    June 30, 2006, in compliance with Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal controls over financial
    reporting were effective. We believe that we currently have



    
    26



Table of Contents




    adequate internal control procedures in place for future
    periods; however, if our internal controls are found to be
    ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be
    adversely affected.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B