Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    and any of those made in our other reports filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You
    are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of
    this document. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to
    publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or
    circumstances after the date of this document or to reflect the
    occurrence of unanticipated events.



    
    3



Table of Contents



 



    PART I


 




    
    



    
    Item 1.  

    
    Business





 



    General


 


    We design, develop, manufacture and sell hard drives. A hard
    drive is a device that uses one or more rotating magnetic disks
    (“media”) to store and allow fast access to data. Hard
    drives are key components of computers, including desktop and
    notebook computers (“PCs”), data storage subsystems
    and many consumer electronic (“CE”) devices.


 


    We sell our products worldwide to original equipment
    manufacturers (“OEMs”) and original design
    manufacturers (“ODMs”) for use in computer systems,
    subsystems or CE devices, and to distributors, resellers and
    retailers. Our hard drives are used in desktop computers,
    notebook computers, and enterprise applications such as servers,
    workstations, network attached storage, storage area networks
    and video surveillance equipment. Additionally, our hard drives
    are used in CE applications such as digital video recorders
    (“DVRs”), and satellite and cable set-top boxes
    (“STBs”). We also sell our hard drives as stand-alone
    storage products and integrate them into external casings,
    embedding application software and presenting them as
    WD®-branded
    external storage appliances for purposes such as personal data
    backup and portable or expanded storage of digital music,
    photographs, video and other data.


 


    Hard drives provide non-volatile data storage, which means that
    the data remains present when power is no longer applied to the
    device. Our hard drives currently include 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch
    form factor drives, having capacities ranging from 40 gigabytes
    (“GB”) to 1 terabyte (“TB”), nominal
    rotation speeds of 5,400, 7,200 and 10,000 revolutions per
    minute (“RPM”), and offer interfaces including both
    Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics (“EIDE”) and
    Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (“SATA”). We
    also embed our hard drives into
    WD®-branded
    external storage appliances that utilize interfaces such as USB
    2.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretm
    and Ethernet network connections. In addition, we recently
    announced a family of hard drives specifically designed to
    consume substantially less power than standard drives, utilizing
    our Green
    Powertm
    technology.


 


    We manufacture hard drives and head stack assemblies
    (“HSAs”) in Malaysia and Thailand. We also design and
    manufacture most of our required magnetic heads in California
    and head gimbal assemblies (“HGAs”) in Thailand and we
    design in California and manufacture in Malaysia most of our
    required media and substrates. For geographical financial data,
    see Part II, Item 8, Note 6 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    On September 5, 2007, we completed our acquisition (the
    “Acquisition”) of Komag, Incorporated
    (“Komag”) through a cash tender offer by State M
    Corporation (“State M”), our indirect wholly-owned
    subsidiary, for all outstanding shares of Komag’s common
    stock, which was followed by a merger of State M and Komag (the
    “Merger”) whereby Komag became an indirect
    wholly-owned subsidiary and changed its name to WD Media, Inc.
    The Acquisition has strengthened our production efficiencies and
    improved our access to and control of technology and competitive
    position in the worldwide hard drive industry, while enhancing
    our hard drive manufacturing process by integrating media. The
    aggregate purchase price for Komag was approximately
    $1 billion, consisting of cash paid for outstanding shares,
    transaction fees, severance and other employee-related equity
    payments.


 



    Business
    Strategy


 


    Our business strategy is to provide a broad selection of
    reliable, high quality hard drives at a low total cost of
    ownership and with high efficiency and speed. We believe this
    strategy helps accomplish the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    distinguishes us in the dynamic and competitive hard drive
    industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    provides great value to our customers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    allows us to better achieve consistent financial performance,
    including strong returns on invested capital.





 


    We have designed our business strategy to accommodate
    significant unit and revenue growth with relatively small
    increases in operating expenses and to consistently achieve high
    asset utilization.



    
    4



Table of Contents





    Industry


 


    We design, develop and manufacture hard drives for the desktop
    and mobile PC, enterprise, CE and branded product retail
    markets. We believe that growth in the sales of hard drives has
    continued to outpace the growth in the sales of all PCs as there
    were approximately 88% more hard drives sold in the market than
    PCs in calendar 2007, based on industry data. We believe the
    following factors continue to drive this accelerating growth of
    hard drive sales in addition to PC applications:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    consumer use of hard drives for the playing, retention, and
    creation of digital content for personal use in the rapidly
    growing CE market;




 



     
        • 

    
    growth of the external hard drive or branded products market,
    permitting the easy storage, portability and backup of digital
    data such as music, photographs, or video;




 



     
        • 

    
    increased use of multiple hard drives in PCs for data backup and
    expanded storage capacity; and




 



     
        • 

    
    increased use of multiple cost-optimized high performance hard
    drives in data-intensive applications such as Internet search
    engines and in hard drive intensive hosts for handheld computing
    devices.





 


    Additionally, we believe that the demand for 2.5-inch hard
    drives has grown from approximately 16% of the overall hard
    drive market in calendar 2003 to 34% of the overall hard drive
    market in calendar 2007, driven principally by the fast-growing
    market for notebook computers.


 


    These factors and our product expansion strategy have gradually
    increased our percentage of revenue derived from non-desktop
    sources. In 2008, 56% of our revenue was from non-desktop
    sources compared to 43% in 2007.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks relating to the hard drive
    industry, please see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Desktop
    PC Market


 


    The desktop PC market consists of the overall hard drive market
    for desktop computers. Individuals use desktop computers in
    homes, businesses and multi-user networks. Desktop computers use
    software applications for word processing, spreadsheet, desktop
    publishing, database management, multimedia, entertainment and
    for other needs. Hard drives store desktop computer operating
    system and application software, as well as the data used by the
    applications.


 


    We believe that the demand for hard drives in the desktop PC
    market has grown in part due to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the overall growth of desktop computer sales;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their desktop computers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the continuing development of software applications to manage
    multimedia content; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto desktop computer hard drives.





 


    We believe several other factors affect the rate of desktop
    computer unit growth, including maturing desktop PC markets in
    North America and Western Europe, an increase in first-time
    buyers of desktop computers in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin
    America, and the lengthening of desktop computer replacement
    cycles.


 



    Mobile PC
    Market


 


    The mobile PC market consists primarily of notebook computers.
    Individuals use notebook computers both in and away from homes
    and businesses. Like desktop computers, notebook computers use
    software applications for various needs and hard drives store
    notebook operating system and application software, and the data
    used by the applications.


 


    We believe that the demand for hard drives in the mobile PC
    market has grown in part due to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the overall growth of notebook sales, including increased
    transition from desktop computers to notebook computers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the increased mobility of the workforce;






    
    5



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the increasing needs of businesses and individuals for increased
    storage capacity on their notebook computers;




 



     
        • 

    
    the continuing development of software applications to manage
    multimedia content; and




 



     
        • 

    
    the increasing use of broadband Internet, including content
    downloaded from the Internet onto notebook hard drives.





 


    We expect the mobile PC market to continue to grow faster than
    the desktop or enterprise markets in the next three years. As
    the mobile PC market continues to evolve to a higher volume
    market, we believe customers are placing increased emphasis on
    attributes such as quality, availability, reliability,
    execution, flexibility, and the competitive cost structures of
    their hard drive suppliers. These are the same attributes that
    have been emphasized for many years by customers in the
    high-volume desktop PC market.


 



    Enterprise
    Market


 


    The enterprise market for hard drives includes workstations,
    servers, network attached storage, storage area networks, other
    computing systems or subsystems, and video surveillance.
    Historically, hard drives for this market have utilized several
    interfaces, including the Small Computer Systems Interface
    (“SCSI”) and Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop
    (“FCAL”). Beginning in 2003, these traditional
    enterprise interfaces have been supplemented or have been
    replaced in certain storage applications by hard drives
    featuring the SATA interface technology, which is supported by
    industry standards, as well as by Serial Attached SCSI
    (“SAS”). SATA hard drives typically cost customers
    less than SCSI hard drives while offering higher capacities and
    maintaining similar reliability, scalability and performance.


 


    We believe that enterprise uses of SATA hard drives will
    continue to increase. During the past few years, a new
    disk-based
    back-up
    application has emerged with high-capacity SATA hard drives
    augmenting SCSI hard drives, tape and optical media. This new
    application, popularly referred to as “near-line”
    storage, has created a growth market because hard drives back up
    or access data more quickly than tape or optical solutions, and
    quickly retrieve critical
    back-up or
    near-line data. The availability of SATA hard drive solutions,
    which are more cost effective than SCSI hard drives, promotes
    the increasing use of high-capacity hard drives in near-line
    storage applications. The low price per capacity of SATA drives
    has stimulated new applications such as video surveillance,
    video editing/broadcasting and medical imaging. These
    applications represent segments of a growing market for high
    capacity storage in non-computing imaging and multimedia
    professions.


 


    Enterprise-class SATA drives are becoming commonplace for
    IT infrastructure applications such as databases, scientific
    computing, web content, web caching, web search engines and
    electronic mail. These applications have become an important
    market for high-capacity SATA hard drives. We believe that this
    market will consume a growing portion of the highest capacity
    hard drives in the next three years.


 


    SAS is the next generation SCSI technology and is expected to
    replace SCSI drives over the next few years. SATA technology is
    compatible with SAS technology, enabling customers the
    flexibility of incorporating SATA hard drives in SAS storage
    systems. We believe the market transition from SCSI to SAS will
    add to the growth of the enterprise-class SATA market,
    which currently is estimated to be approximately 40% of the
    enterprise hard drive market.


 


    High-performance applications such as blade servers are
    increasingly using 2.5-inch form factor hard drives, supplanting
    traditional 3.5-inch drives. Smaller form factors enable more
    drives per physical space for increased performance, higher
    capacity per square foot and lower power consumption. This trend
    demonstrates the fragmentation of the enterprise hard drive
    market and the need for application-specific enterprise-class
    hard drives.


 



    Consumer
    Electronics Market


 


    The use of hard drives in CE products has been a major growth
    area in recent years. Currently, the three largest segments of
    this market are:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    video content in applications such as DVRs;




 



     
        • 

    
    audio and video content in applications such as consumer
    handheld devices, including MP3 players; and




 



     
        • 

    
    hard drives in game consoles.






    
    6



Table of Contents



 


    Since 1999, DVRs have been available for use in home
    entertainment systems and they offer enhanced capabilities such
    as pausing live television, simplifying the process of recording
    and cataloging recorded television programs and quickly
    forwarding or returning to any section of a recorded television
    program. Additionally, digital video disk (“DVD”)
    recorders increasingly incorporate hard drives to allow for DVR
    functionality and faster recording of content onto removable
    DVDs. The market for these products favors larger capacity hard
    drives and continues to grow in Japan, North America and
    Europe. Additionally, the rest of Asia Pacific shows strong
    interest in this market. We believe growth in this market will
    continue to build demand for higher capacity hard drives.


 


    The proliferation in the CE market of more sophisticated mobile
    devices including cell phones and MP3 players is driving the
    delivery of diverse content from hard drive intensive hosts. We
    believe this is one of the factors influencing increased sales
    of enterprise-class SATA drives. We also believe that
    multimedia handheld devices such as video cameras and
    high-resolution still cameras are enabling consumer production
    of expansive digital content that requires increasing amounts of
    small form-factor hard drive storage, as well as high-capacity
    desktop-class hard drives for editing, manipulation and
    long-term storage of such content.


 


    Hard drives with 1.8-inch or 1.0-inch form factors primarily
    address the consumer handheld device and portable external
    storage markets. The majority of hard drives used in portable
    media players that play both digital audio and video content are
    1.8-inch form factors. Currently, we believe the markets for
    these handheld devices are better served by flash memory as
    opposed to rotating magnetic storage.


 



    External
    Hard Drive Market


 


    Most new PC systems include high-speed external interfaces, such
    as USB 2.0, external SATA,
    FireWiretm
    or Ethernet network connections, that permit users to supplement
    the storage space of their PC systems or home and small office
    networks with the use of external hard drives. Users store
    additional programs or multimedia content, and back up internal
    hard drives with external hard drives, as well as mobile
    external hard drives for mobility convenience. Although external
    hard drives are a small part of the overall hard drive market,
    we believe that sales of external hard drives will continue to
    grow. External storage can often be the easiest, quickest or
    only way of adding additional storage capacity to either a
    desktop or notebook computer. We believe there is an increasing
    consumer awareness of the need and value of securely storing
    personal digital content through backup applications and
    devices. In addition, there is opportunity for external storage
    as a way of expanding storage capacity in CE devices such as
    DVRs.


 



    Other
    Market Opportunities


 


    We regularly review opportunities to apply our knowledge of data
    storage technology to markets that we do not currently serve.
    Based on significant investments we made over the last five
    years, we believe we have the technology building blocks to
    increase our overall market penetration and be a full-line hard
    drive supplier. Consistent with our measured and deliberate
    approach to new market entries in the recent past, our approach
    to additional new markets will be based on a careful assessment
    of the risks, rewards, requirements and profit potential of such
    actions.


 



    Products


 


    We offer a broad line of hard drives designed for various
    markets. We market our hard drives under brand names including
    WD Caviar, WD Raptor, WD VelociRaptor, WD Scorpio, WD Elements,
    My Passport, My Book, My DVR Expander and GreenPower. These hard
    drives service the desktop, mobile, enterprise, CE and branded
    products markets, and can be found in products including desktop
    computers, notebook computers, enterprise storage, workstations,
    video surveillance equipment, networking products, DVRs, STBs
    and external storage appliances.


 



    Desktop
    Hard Drive Products


 


    The hard drives we design for the desktop PC market currently
    consist of 3.5-inch form factor products with capacities ranging
    from 40 GB to 1 TB. These products utilize either the EIDE or
    SATA interfaces, providing high performance while retaining ease
    of use and overall low cost of connection. The type of EIDE
    interface currently used in our hard drives is ATA/100, which
    signifies a burst data transfer rate of 100 megabytes per
    second, which is the maximum specified data transition that can
    be sustained under ideal conditions. The SATA interface
    available in the majority of our hard drives enable burst
    transfer rates of up to 300 megabytes per second.



    
    7



Table of Contents





    Mobile
    Hard Drive Products


 


    Our hard drives used in mobile products typically include
    2.5-inch form factor drives for notebook computers. Although the
    desktop PC market still accounts for a majority of hard drive
    sales, unit shipments of hard drives for notebook computers
    represent a growing share of the total. We entered the 2.5-inch
    mobile market in September 2004. We are now shipping our fifth
    generation of the WD
    Scorpio®
    product family, offering up to 320 GB of capacity. Our product
    expansion, including a recently announced high-performance hard
    drive spinning at 7,200 RPM, has enabled us to provide customers
    with a full-line of 2.5-inch mobile drives and helped us enhance
    our market position in this fast-growing market.


 



    Enterprise
    Hard Drive Products


 


    We offer multiple product lines to address enterprise market
    needs, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the WD
    VelociRaptortm,
    which is a 300 GB 10,000 RPM 2.5-inch enterprise-class drive
    with the SATA interface for enterprise applications requiring
    high performance and high reliability;




 



     
        • 

    
    the
    WD®
    RE family of drives, with capacities ranging from 160 GB to 1
    TB. The
    WD®
    RE family serves the SATA market and has enhanced reliability
    features and ratings when contrasted to our desktop
    products; and




 



     
        • 

    
    low-power versions of the
    WD®
    RE family of drives featuring WD’s
    GreenPowertm
    technology, which reduces power consumption as much as
    40 percent compared with standard hard drives. Lower power
    consumption reduces total cost of ownership for our customers by
    cutting energy costs and lowering operating temperatures, which
    contributes to longer reliability.





 


    Both WD
    VelociRaptortm
    and
    WD®
    RE drives may be used in, but are not limited to, applications
    such as databases,
    e-commerce
    and super computing in life science, oil and gas and similar
    industries, business records management,
    e-mail, file
    serving, web serving, near-line storage, medical records,
    engineering data management, video broadcasting and video
    security. The WD
    VelociRaptortm
    also has been popular for use in the high-end desktop PC market
    for applications including gaming and advanced CAD/CAM
    (“computer aided design/computer-aided manufacturing”)
    systems.


 



    Consumer
    Electronics Products


 


    We offer a line of hard drives under the
    WD®
    AV brand that are designed for use in products such as DVRs,
    STBs, karaoke systems, multi-function printers, and gaming
    systems.
    WD®
    AV drives deliver the characteristics CE manufacturers seek
    most, which are quiet operation, low operating temperature, low
    power consumption specifications, high reliability and optimized
    streaming capabilities. We also offer low-power
    WD®
    AV drive models that feature WD’s
    GreenPowertm
    technology. Lower power consumption in our
    WD®
    AV drives results in cooler operation, which enhances long-term
    reliability. Our
    GreenPowertm
    technology also quiets drive operation, which is an important
    attribute for our consumer electronics customers.


 



    Branded
    Products


 


    We sell a broad line of
    WD®-branded
    hard drive-based storage appliances, which are internal drives
    embedded into PC peripheral-style enclosures that have USB 2.0,
    external SATA,
    FireWiretm and
    Ethernet network connections and include software that assists
    customers with back up, remote access and management of digital
    content. We sell these branded storage appliances, as well as
    related adapters and accessories, through retail store fronts,
    online stores and distributors. These include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the 3.5-inch hard drive-based My
    Book®
    family of storage appliances, which are designed to reside on
    desktops as PC peripherals, as well as be connected to networks,
    and simplify storage for mainstream consumers, and offer from
    160 GB to 2 TB of capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    The 3.5-inch My DVR
    Expandertm series
    of external SATA(“eSATA”) and USB 2.0 storage
    appliances, which adds recording time to STBs with DVR
    capability;






    
    8



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the 2.5-inch hard drive-based My
    Passport®
    Portable series of USB 2.0 and FireWire storage devices, which,
    weighing less than one-half of a pound, offer from 120 GB to 320
    GB of portable storage capacity; and




 



     
        • 

    
    3.5-inch and 2.5-inch internal hard drives packaged with PC
    installation kits under the WD brand for retail store sales.





 



    Research
    and Development


 


    We devote substantial resources to development of new products
    and improvement of existing products. We focus our engineering
    efforts on coordinating our product design and manufacturing
    processes to bring our products to market in a cost-effective
    and timely manner. Research and development expenses totaled
    $464 million (excluding $49 million of in-process
    research and development acquired in the acquisition of Komag),
    $306 million and $297 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our development
    of new products, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Technology
    and Product Development


 


    Hard drives record, store and retrieve digital data. Performance
    attributes of hard drives, such as their ability to access and
    transmit data and storage capacity, are currently better than
    removable or floppy disks, optical hard drives and tapes, and
    they are more cost effective than semiconductor technology. The
    primary measures of hard drive performance include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    “Acoustics” — which is the sound power
    emitted during hard drive operation, commonly expressed in
    decibels, and perceived loudness due to sound pressure, commonly
    expressed in sones.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Data transfer rate” — which is the
    sustained rate of data transfer to and from the disk, commonly
    expressed in megabits per second. One megabit equals one million
    bits.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Seek time” — which is the time needed to
    position the heads over a selected track on the disk surface,
    commonly expressed in milliseconds.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Spindle rotation speed” — which is the
    nominal rotation speed of the disks inside the hard drive,
    commonly expressed in RPM or latency. Spindle rotation speeds
    commonly stated as 5,400, 7,200 and 10,000 RPM are sometimes
    approximations.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Storage capacity” — which is the amount of
    data that can be stored on the hard drive, commonly expressed in
    GB or TB. As defined in the hard drive industry, one GB equals
    one billion bytes and one TB equals one trillion bytes. A byte
    is a digital character, typically comprised of eight bits. A bit
    is a binary digit, the smallest unit of information in a digital
    system.




 



     
        • 

    
    “Power Consumption” — which is the amount of
    electricity required to operate the drive, measured in watts.





 


    All of our hard drive products employ similar technology. The
    main components of the hard drive are a Head-Disk-Assembly
    (“HDA”) and a Printed Circuit Board Assembly
    (“PCBA”). The HDA includes heads, media
    (“disks”), head positioning mechanism
    (“actuator”) and spindle motor. A rigid base and top
    cover contain these components in a contamination-controlled
    environment. The PCBA includes both standard and custom
    integrated circuits, an interface connector to the host computer
    and a power connector.


 


    HDA: One or more disks positioned around a motor-driven spindle
    hub that rotates the disks comprise the disk-pack assembly. The
    disk is made up of a smooth substrate on which thin layers of
    magnetic materials are deposited. The HSA is comprised of a
    magnetic positioner, a pivot-arm module, on which the individual
    heads are mounted. Each disk has a head suspended directly above
    it, which can read data from or write data to the spinning disk.


 


    PCBA: The integrated circuits on the printed circuit board
    typically include a drive interface and a controller. The drive
    interface receives instructions from the host computer, while
    the controller directs the flow of data to or from the disks and
    controls the heads. The location of data on each disk is
    logically maintained in concentric tracks divided into sectors.
    The host computer sends instructions to the controller to read
    data from or write data to the disks, based on



    
    9



Table of Contents




    logical track and sector locations. Guided by instructions from
    the controller, the HSA pivots in an arc, across the disk until
    it reaches the selected track of a disk, where the data is
    recorded or retrieved.


 


    Industry standard interfaces allow the hard drive to communicate
    with the computer. Currently, the primary interfaces for PCs are
    EIDE and SATA, and the primary interfaces for enterprise systems
    are SCSI, SATA, SAS and FCAL. As computer performance continues
    to improve, the hard drive will need to deliver information
    faster. We believe this will continue to drive the PC industry
    transition to higher speed interfaces, such as SATA and SAS, to
    facilitate the higher data transfer rates. We currently offer
    the SATA interface on our WD
    Caviar®,
    WD
    Scorpio®,
    WD®
    RE, WD
    VelociRaptortm
    and
    WD®
    AV hard drive families; and EIDE on WD
    Caviar®,
    WD
    Scorpio®
    and
    WD®
    AV families.


 


    The number of disks and each disk’s areal density, which is
    a measure of the amount of data that can be stored on the
    recording surface of the disk, determines storage capacity of
    the hard drive. The higher the areal density, the more
    information can be stored on a single platter. Achieving a given
    drive capacity requires fewer disks and heads as the areal
    density increases, potentially reducing product costs over time
    through reduced component requirements. Beginning in June 2007,
    we began shipping 3.5-inch hard drives with 188 GB per platter
    areal density and 2.5-inch hard drives with 125 GB per platter
    areal density. In July 2007, we introduced the WD
    Caviar®
    GreenPowertm
    3.5-inch hard drive which has 250 GB per platter areal density.
    In October 2007, we introduced WD
    Scorpio®
    2.5-inch drives that employ 160 GB per platter technology. In
    January 2008, we began shipping a 3.5-inch hard drive platform
    with 320 GB per platter areal density and in June 2008, we began
    shipping our WD
    Caviar®
    family of drives at 333 GB per platter areal density. In April
    2008, we began shipping WD
    VelociRaptortm
    hard drives, 2.5-inch 300 GB drives employing the highest
    shipping areal density in the industry at 290 gigabits per
    square inch.


 


    Head technology is one of the key components affecting areal
    density. Historically, there have been rapid technological
    changes resulting in several generations of head technology in a
    relatively short time. However, in recent years the time has
    lengthened between changes in generations of head technology.
    The hard drive industry has essentially transitioned from the
    use of longitudinal magnetic recording (“LMR”) head
    technology for the head writer function to perpendicular
    magnetic recording (“PMR”) technology, which allows
    for significantly higher storage capacities. In addition, the
    industry has made the transition to tunnel-junction magneto
    resistive (“TMR”) technology for the head reader
    function. We have completed the transition to PMR and TMR in our
    2.5-inch products and in the majority of our 3.5-inch products.


 


    With the transition to PMR, media plays a much more important
    role in achieving higher areal density. PMR demands a much
    tighter interaction and matching between head and media designs.
    The acquisition of Komag has enabled us to be vertically
    integrated in the two most important technology components of
    hard drives (heads and media), and has enabled us to achieve a
    more optimum design and utilization of these components.


 


    We invest considerable resources in research and development,
    manufacturing infrastructure and capital equipment of head and
    media components, in order to secure our competitive position
    and cost structure.


 


    The
    WD®
    product line generally leverages a common platform for various
    products within product families with different capacities to
    serve differing market needs. This platform strategy results in
    commonality of components across different products within
    product families and, in some cases, across product families,
    which reduces exposure to changes in demand, facilitates
    inventory management and allows us to achieve lower costs
    through purchasing economies. This platform strategy also
    enables our customers to leverage their qualification efforts
    onto successive product models.


 


    Fiscal 2008 represented the sixth consecutive year of
    substantial growth in our research and development and capital
    spending to support our significant broadening of our product
    and technology portfolios. Over that six-year period, we have
    grown our investment spending 173% from $170 million in
    fiscal 2002 to $464 million in fiscal 2008. As a result of
    this investment activity, we continue to expand our business
    beyond the desktop PC market into newer markets or markets in
    which we have not previously participated. Such investments have
    allowed us to execute against our strategic objective of revenue
    diversification to address the growth of new applications for
    hard drives and fast-growing new market opportunities.


 


    We are currently expanding our existing head wafer fabrication
    facilities in Fremont, California to accommodate our anticipated
    growth. The expansion will involve a process change to utilize
    8-inch
    wafers from
    6-inch
    wafers and will cost an estimated $280 million in the
    fiscal 2009 to 2010 timeframe. This will be in addition to our
    ongoing capital expenditures for hard drive and head assembly,
    and our anticipated capital expenditures for media development
    and manufacturing following our planned acquisition of Komag.



    
    10



Table of Contents




    For an additional discussion of risks related to technological
    innovations, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Sales and
    Distribution


 


    We sell our products globally to OEMs, ODMs, distributors and
    retailers. OEMs purchase our hard drives, either directly or
    through a contract manufacturer such as an ODM, and assemble
    them into the computer or CE systems they build. Distributors
    typically sell our hard drives to non-direct customers such as
    small computer and CE manufacturers, dealers, systems
    integrators, online retailers and other resellers. Retailers
    typically sell our hard drive products directly to end-users
    through their storefront or online facilities.


 



    Original
    Equipment Manufacturers


 


    Sales to OEMs, which include sales through ODMs, accounted for
    51%, 48% and 54% of our hard drive revenue in 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. During 2008, no single customer accounted
    for 10%, or more, of our revenue. During 2007 and 2006, sales to
    Dell, Inc. accounted for 10% and 12%, respectively, of our
    revenue. We believe that our success depends on our ability to
    maintain and improve our strong relationships with the leading
    OEMs.


 


    OEMs evaluate and select their hard drive suppliers based on a
    number of factors, including quality and reliability, storage
    capacities, performance characteristics, price, service and
    support, ease of doing business, and the supplier’s
    long-term financial stability. They typically seek to qualify
    two or more providers for each generation of hard drives, and
    once an OEM has chosen its qualified hard drive vendors for a
    given product, it generally will purchase hard drives from those
    vendors for the life of that product. To achieve success with
    OEM qualifications, a hard drive supplier must consistently
    offer hard drives featuring leading technology, quality and
    reliability at acceptable capacity per disk. Suppliers must
    quickly achieve volume production of each new generation of high
    quality and reliable hard drives, requiring access to flexible,
    high-capacity, high-quality manufacturing capabilities.


 


    Many of our OEM customers utilize
    just-in-time
    inventory management processes or supply chain business models
    that combine “build-to-order,” in which they do not
    build until there is a firm order, and “contract
    manufacturing,” in which the OEM contracts assembly work to
    a contract manufacturer, such as an ODM, who purchases
    components and assembles the computer based on the OEM’s
    instructions. For certain OEMs, we maintain a base stock of
    finished goods inventory in facilities located near or adjacent
    to the OEM’s operations.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our need to
    adapt to our customers’ business models and maintain
    customer satisfaction, refer to Item 1A of this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Distributors


 


    We use a broad group of distributors to sell our products to
    non-direct customers such as small computer and CE
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, online retailers
    and other resellers. Distributors accounted for approximately
    31%, 36% and 39% of our hard drive revenue for 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. Distributors generally enter into
    non-exclusive agreements for specific territories with us for
    the purchase and redistribution of our products in specific
    territories. We grant our distributors limited price protection
    rights.


 



    Retailers


 


    We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers such as computer superstores, warehouse clubs, online
    retailers, and computer electronics stores, and authorize sales
    through distributors to smaller retailers. Retailers accounted
    for approximately 18%, 16% and 7% of our hard drive revenue for
    2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our current retail customer
    base is primarily in the United States, Canada and Europe. The
    retail channel complements our other sales channels while
    helping to build brand awareness for WD and our products.
    Retailers supply end-users with products to upgrade their
    computers and externally store their data for backup or mobility
    purposes. We grant our retailers price protection and limited
    rights to return product on an inventory rotation basis. We also
    sell our branded products through our web site.



    
    11



Table of Contents





    Sales and
    Marketing


 


    We maintain sales offices in selected parts of the world
    including the major geographies of the Americas,
    Asia Pacific, Japan, Europe and the Middle East. Our
    international sales, which include sales to foreign subsidiaries
    of U.S. companies but do not include sales to
    U.S. subsidiaries of foreign companies, represented 76%,
    68% and 68% of our revenue for 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. Sales to international customers may be subject to
    certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations,
    including exposure to tariffs and various trade regulations. For
    an additional discussion regarding the risks related to sales to
    international customers, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 


    For additional information concerning revenue recognition, sales
    by geographic region and significant customer information, see
    Part II, Item 8, Notes 1 and 6 in the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements, included in this Annual
    Report on
    Form 10-K.


 


    We perform our marketing and advertising functions internally
    and through outside firms. We target advertising, worldwide
    packaging and marketing materials to various reseller and
    end-user categories. We utilize both consumer media and trade
    publications. We have programs under which we reimburse
    qualified distributors and retailers for certain marketing
    expenditures. We also maintain customer relationships by
    communicating with our resellers and providing end-users with
    information and support through our web site.


 



    Competition


 


    We compete primarily with manufacturers of hard drives for use
    in desktop, notebook, enterprise, CE and external storage
    products. Our competitors in the hard drive market include
    ExcelStor Technology, Fujitsu Limited, Hitachi Global Storage
    Technologies, Samsung Electronics Incorporated, Seagate
    Technology and Toshiba Corporation.


 


    The hard drive industry is intensely competitive, with hard
    drive suppliers competing for sales to a limited number of major
    customers. Hard drives manufactured by different competitors are
    highly substitutable due to the industry mandate of technical
    form, fit and function standards. Hard drive manufacturers
    compete on the basis of product quality and reliability, storage
    capacity, unit price, product performance, production volume
    capabilities, delivery capability, leadership in time-to-market,
    time-to-volume and time-to-quality, service and support and ease
    of doing business. The relative importance of these factors
    varies by customer and market. We believe that we are generally
    competitive in all of these factors.


 


    We believe that there are no substantial barriers for existing
    competitors to offer competing products. Therefore, we believe
    that we cannot differentiate
    WD®
    hard drive products solely on attributes such as storage
    capacity, buffer size or time-to-market. Accordingly, we
    differentiate WD by focusing on operational excellence, high
    product quality and reliability, and designing and incorporating
    into our hard drives desirable product performance attributes.
    Such performance attributes include seek times, data transfer
    rates, intelligent caching, failure prediction, remote
    diagnostics, acoustics, error recovery, low operating
    temperature, low power consumption and optimized streaming
    capabilities.


 


    In addition, we differentiate WD by emphasizing non-product
    related attributes, including rapid response to our customers.
    Rapid response requires accelerated design cycles, customer
    delivery, production flexibility and timely service and support,
    which contribute to customer satisfaction. We also rely on the
    strength of the WD brand name with value-added resellers,
    retailers and solution providers to whom we sell our hard drive
    products directly and indirectly. We believe that trust in a
    manufacturer’s reputation, its execution track record and
    the establishment of strategic relationships have become
    important factors in the selection of a hard drive, particularly
    in a rapidly changing technology environment.


 


    Advances in magnetic, optical or other data storage technologies
    could result in competitive products with better performance or
    lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. We monitor
    the advantages, disadvantages and advances of the full array of
    storage technologies on an ongoing basis.


 


    High-speed semiconductor memory competes with hard drive
    products in some applications, such as consumer handheld devices
    and portable external storage. Semiconductor memory is much
    faster in some applications than magnetic hard drives, but
    currently is not competitive in most applications using 3.5-inch
    and 2.5-inch form factor hard drives from a cost standpoint.
    Flash memory, a non-volatile semiconductor memory, is currently
    much more costly and, while it has



    
    12



Table of Contents




    higher “read” performance attributes than hard drives,
    it has lower “write” performance attributes. Flash
    memory could become more competitive in the near future for
    additional applications requiring less storage capacity than
    that provided by hard drives. However, we believe that the
    traditional high-volume computing markets will remain the domain
    of 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch hard drives based on the hard drive
    industry’s attributes of reliability, availability and cost.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to competition,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Service
    and Warranty


 


    We generally warrant our newly manufactured hard drives against
    defects in materials and workmanship from one to five years from
    the date of manufacture depending on the type of product. Our
    warranty obligation is generally limited to repair or
    replacement of the hard drive. We have engaged third parties in
    various countries in multiple regions, including Africa, Asia
    Pacific, Australia, Europe, India, Latin America, the Middle
    East and North America to provide various levels of testing,
    processing
    and/or
    recertification of returned hard drives for our customers. In
    addition, we process, test and recertify returned hard drives at
    our facility in the United States.


 



    Manufacturing


 


    We believe that we have significant know-how, unique product
    manufacturing processes, execution skills and human resources to
    continue to be successful and have the ability to grow, as
    necessary, our manufacturing operations. To be competitive, we
    must manufacture high quality hard drives with industry leading
    time-to-volume production at competitive unit costs. We strive
    to maintain manufacturing flexibility, high manufacturing
    yields, reliable products, and high-quality components that we
    manufacture ourselves, while insisting that our suppliers
    provide high-quality components at competitive prices. The
    critical elements of our hard drive production are high volume,
    low cost assembly and testing, and establishment and maintenance
    of key supplier relationships. By establishing close
    relationships with our strategic component suppliers, we believe
    we access best-of-class technology and manufacturing quality. In
    addition, we believe that our sourcing strategy currently
    enables us to have the business flexibility needed to select the
    highest quality, low cost of ownership suppliers as product
    designs and technologies evolve.


 


    Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the
    assembly of precision components with narrow tolerances and
    thorough testing. The assembly process occurs in a “clean
    room” environment that demands skill in process engineering
    and efficient space utilization to control the operating costs
    of this manufacturing environment. Our clean room manufacturing
    process consists of modular production units, each of which
    contains a number of work cells.


 


    We manufacture hard drives in Malaysia and Thailand. We
    continually evaluate our manufacturing processes in an effort to
    increase productivity, sustain and improve quality and decrease
    manufacturing costs. We continually evaluate which steps in the
    manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how
    automated manufacturing processes can improve productivity and
    reduce manufacturing costs.


 


    We use our wafer fabrication facilities in Fremont, California
    and our slider fabrication facility in Bang Pa-In, Thailand, to
    design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and
    HGAs we include in the hard drives we manufacture.


 


    We are currently expanding our head wafer fabrication facilities
    in Fremont, California and expect to complete the expansion in
    calendar 2009, which will provide us with adequate wafer
    fabrication capacity for the foreseeable future.


 


    Following our acquisition of Komag, we also have media and
    substrate design and manufacturing facilities in Malaysia. We
    use these facilities to design and manufacture most of the media
    and substrates that we use in our products.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to manufacturing,
    see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Materials
    and Supplies


 


    The following products are the major components currently used
    in the manufacture of our hard drives:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    magnetic heads and media;




 



     
        • 

    
    suspensions with related HGAs and HSAs;






    
    13



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    spindle motors;




 



     
        • 

    
    custom and standard electronics such as system on chips, memory,
    motor controllers,
    pre-amps and
    printed circuit boards;




 



     
        • 

    
    base and top covers; and




 



     
        • 

    
    magnets and related voice coil motors.





 


    We also use several other components in our hard drives such as
    seals, filters, plastic molded parts, capacitors, resistors,
    connectors and cables.


 


    We design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads,
    media and substrates required for the hard drives we
    manufacture. We purchase a portion of these components from
    third party suppliers.


 


    We acquire all of the remaining components for our products from
    third party suppliers. We generally retain multiple suppliers
    for each of our component requirements but in some instances use
    sole sources for business reasons.


 


    We sole-source some components, such as custom integrated
    circuit devices for certain products from suppliers like Marvell
    Technology, STMicroelectronics and Texas Instruments. Because of
    their custom nature, these products require significant
    design-in periods and long lead times. There has been a trend in
    integrated circuit design toward increased integration of
    various separate circuits and we expect this trend to continue
    in custom integrated circuits for hard drives.


 


    For an additional discussion of risks related to our component
    supplies, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Backlog


 


    Historically, a substantial portion of our orders have been for
    shipments of hard drives within 30 to 60 days of the
    placement of the order. We generally negotiate pricing, order
    lead times, product support requirements and other terms and
    conditions before receiving a customer’s first purchase
    order for a product. Customers’ purchase orders typically
    may be canceled with relatively short notice to us, with little
    or no cost to the customer, or modified by customers to provide
    for delivery at a later date. In addition, we make many of our
    sales to OEMs under
    just-in-time
    delivery contracts that do not generally require firm order
    commitments by the customer until the time of sale. Instead, we
    receive a periodic forecast of requirements from the customer
    and invoice the customer upon shipment of the product from the
    just-in-time
    warehouse. Therefore, backlog information as of the end of a
    particular period is not necessarily indicative of future levels
    of our revenue and profit and may not be comparable to earlier
    periods.


 



    Patents,
    Licenses and Proprietary Information


 


    We own numerous patents and have many patent applications in
    process. We believe that, although our patents and patent
    applications have considerable value, the successful
    manufacturing and marketing of our products depends primarily
    upon the technical and managerial competence of our staff.
    Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not ensure our
    future success.


 


    In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We believe that
    our non-patented intellectual property, particularly some of our
    process technology, is an important factor in our success. We
    rely upon non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions
    and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary
    information. Despite these safeguards, there is a risk that
    competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws of
    foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business may provide
    less protection for confidential information than the United
    States.


 


    We rely on certain technology that we license from other parties
    to manufacture and sell WD products. We believe that we have
    adequate cross-licenses and other agreements in place in
    addition to our own intellectual property portfolio to compete
    successfully in the hard drive industry. For additional
    discussion of risks related to our ownership and use of
    intellectual property, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.



    
    14



Table of Contents





    Environmental
    Regulation


 


    We are subject to a variety of regulations in connection with
    our operations. We believe that we have obtained or are in the
    process of obtaining all necessary environmental permits for our
    operations. For additional discussion of risks related to
    environmental regulation, see Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Employees


 


    As of June 27, 2008, we employed a total of
    50,072 employees worldwide. This represents an increase in
    headcount of approximately 69% since June 29, 2007 and an
    increase of approximately 102% since June 30, 2006. Many of
    our employees are highly skilled, and our continued success
    depends in part upon our ability to attract and retain such
    employees. Accordingly, we offer employee benefit programs,
    which we believe are, in the aggregate, competitive with those
    offered by our competitors. We and most of our competitors
    nevertheless have difficulty at times hiring and retaining
    certain skilled employees. We have engaged consultants and
    contract personnel to fill these needs until full-time employees
    could be recruited. We consider our employee relations to be
    good. For additional discussion of risks related to our skilled
    employees, see Item 1A of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    We maintain an Internet web site at
    http://www.westerndigital.com.
    Our Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a)
    and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    are available on our web site at
    http://www.westerndigital.com,
    free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
    electronic filing of these reports with the SEC. Any materials
    we file with the SEC are available at the SEC’s Public
    Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
    20549. Additional information about the operation of the Public
    Reference Room can also be obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    In addition, the SEC maintains a web site at
    http://www.sec.gov
    that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
    other information regarding issuers that file electronically
    with the SEC, including us.


 



    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    Listed below are all of our executive officers as of
    June 27, 2008, followed by a brief account of their
    business experience during the past five years. Executive
    officers are normally appointed annually by the Board of
    Directors at a meeting of the directors immediately following
    the Annual Meeting of Stockholders. There are no family
    relationships among these officers nor any arrangements or
    understandings between any officer and any other person pursuant
    to which an officer was selected.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





    Name



 



    Age



 



    Position




 





    John F. Coyne



 

 


    58

 


 


    President and Chief Executive Officer





    Timothy M. Leyden



 

 


    56

 


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





    Raymond M. Bukaty



 

 


    51

 


 


    Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary





    Hossein Moghadam



 

 


    64

 


 


    Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer








 



 




    Mr. Coyne, 58, has been a director since October
    2006. He joined us in 1983 and has served in various
    executive capacities. From November 2002 until June 2005,
    Mr. Coyne served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide
    Operations, from June 2005 until September 2005, he served as
    Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations and from November
    2005 until June 2006, he served as Executive Vice President and
    Chief Operations Officer. Effective June 2006, he was named
    President and Chief Operating Officer. In January 2007, he
    became President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Coyne is
    a director of Jacobs Engineering Group Inc.


 


    Mr. Leyden, 56, re-joined us in May 2007 as Executive Vice
    President, Finance, and was promoted to Executive Vice President
    and Chief Financial Officer in September 2007. From December
    2001 to May 2007, Mr. Leyden served in senior finance
    capacities at Sage Software Inc. and Sage Software of
    California, subsidiaries of Sage Group PLC, a U.K. public
    company that supplies accounting and business management
    software to small and medium-sized businesses, including as
    Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer from
    May 2004 to May 2007, and as Vice President, Finance and
    Chief Financial Officer from December 2001 to May 2004.
    Mr. Leyden previously served in various worldwide finance,
    manufacturing and information technology capacities with us from
    1983 to December 2000.



    
    15



Table of Contents




    Mr. Bukaty, 51, joined us in 1999 as Vice President,
    Corporate Law. He was appointed to Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary in March 2002, and to Senior Vice
    President in January 2004, and assumed his current position as
    Senior Vice President, Administration, General Counsel and
    Secretary in October 2004.


 


    Dr. Moghadam, 64, joined us in October 2000 as Vice
    President, Engineering and site manager of our San Jose
    facility. He served as Senior Vice President, Research and
    Development from November 2004 to November 2005 and was
    appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer in
    November 2005.


 



    Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors


 



    Declines
    in average selling prices (“ASPs”) in the hard drive
    industry could adversely affect our operating results.


 


    The hard drive industry historically has experienced declining
    ASPs. Our ASPs tend to decline when competitors lower prices as
    a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity,
    liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain
    market share. Our ASPs also decline when there is a shift in the
    mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products
    increase relative to those of higher priced products. When ASPs
    in the hard drive industry decline, our ASPs are also likely to
    decline, which adversely affects our operating results.


 



    If we
    fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets
    for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Over the past few years the consumer market for computers has
    shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. If we are
    not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive
    for the low-cost PC market, our share of that market will likely
    fall, which could harm our operating results.


 


    The market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of
    devices and products. Many industry analysts expect, as do we,
    that, as content increasingly converts to digital technology
    from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers
    and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard
    drives will be found in many CE products other than computers.
    In addition, we expect that the consumer market for multi-media
    applications, including audio-video products, incorporating high
    capacity, and handheld consumer storage will continue to grow.
    However, because this market remains relatively new, accurate
    forecasts for future growth remain challenging.


 


    Moreover, some devices, such as personal video recorders and
    digital video recorders, or some new PC operating systems which
    allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality,
    therefore allowing for greater market differentiation, may
    require attributes not currently offered in our products,
    resulting in a need to develop new interfaces, form factors,
    technical specifications or hard drive features, increasing our
    overall operational expense without corresponding incremental
    revenue at this stage. If we are not successful in continuing to
    deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new
    products for the emerging CE market, or if we are required to
    incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm
    our operating results.


 



    Our
    prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable
    end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives.


 


    Demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems
    manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to
    existing systems. The demand for systems has been volatile in
    the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand
    for hard drives in any given period. As a result, the hard drive
    market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead
    to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price
    competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be
    forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which
    could result in lower revenue and gross margins.


 



    Our
    failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for
    our products could adversely affect our business and financial
    results.


 


    The hard drive industry faces difficulties in accurately
    forecasting market and customer demand for its products. The
    variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part
    on these forecasts. If our forecasts exceed actual market
    demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our
    forecasts, then we could experience periods of product
    oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial
    performance. If our forecasts do not meet actual market demand,
    or if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts
    or beyond our ability to add



    
    16



Table of Contents




    manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy
    customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market
    share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands.


 


    We also use forecasts in making decisions regarding investment
    of our resources. For example, as the hard drive industry
    transitions from the Parallel Advanced Technology Attachment
    (“PATA”) interface to the SATA interface, we may
    invest more resources in the development of products using the
    SATA interface. If our forecasts regarding the replacement of
    the PATA interface with the SATA interface are inaccurate, we
    may not have products available to meet our customers’
    needs.


 


    In addition, although we receive forecasts from our customers,
    they are not generally obligated to purchase the forecasted
    amounts. In particular, sales volumes in the distribution and
    retail channels are volatile and harder to predict than sales to
    our OEM or ODM customers. We consider these forecasts in
    determining our component needs and our inventory requirements.
    If we fail to accurately forecast our customers’ product
    demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our
    products or components, which could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 



    Increases
    in areal density may outpace customers’ demand for storage
    capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing
    to pay for new products.


 


    Historically, the industry has experienced periods of variable
    areal density growth rates. When the rate of areal density
    growth increases, the rate of increase may exceed the increase
    in our customers’ demand for aggregate storage capacity.
    Furthermore, our customers’ demand for storage capacity may
    not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result
    of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital
    rights management or otherwise. These factors could lead to our
    customers’ storage capacity needs being satisfied with
    lower capacity hard drives at lower prices, thereby decreasing
    our revenue. As a result, even with increasing aggregate demand
    for storage capacity, our ASPs could decline, which could
    adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Expansion
    into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures
    to increase and if we do not successfully expand into new
    markets, our business may suffer.


 


    To remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to
    offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. We
    currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch hard drives for the
    desktop, enterprise, CE and external storage markets, and we
    also offer 2.5-inch form factor hard drives for the mobile, CE
    and external storage markets. However, demand for hard drives
    may shift to products in form factors or with interfaces that
    our competitors offer but which we do not. Expansion into other
    hard drive markets and resulting increases in manufacturing
    capacity requirements may require us to make substantial
    additional investments due in part because our operations are
    largely vertically integrated. If we fail to successfully expand
    into new hard drive markets with products that we do not
    currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who
    offer these products.


 



    If we
    fail to successfully manage our new product development or new
    market expansion, or if we fail to anticipate the issues
    associated with such development or expansion, our business may
    suffer.


 


    While we continue to develop new products and look to expand
    into other hard drive markets, the success of our new product
    introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including our
    ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated
    with these new products and new markets, such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp;




 



     
        • 

    
    market acceptance;




 



     
        • 

    
    effective management of inventory levels in line with
    anticipated product demand; and




 



     
        • 

    
    quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new
    product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of
    those products.






    
    17



Table of Contents



 


    Further, we need to identify how any of the hard drive markets
    into which we are expanding may have different characteristics
    from the markets in which we currently exist and properly
    address these differences. These characteristics may include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    demand volume growth rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    demand seasonality;




 



     
        • 

    
    product generation development rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    customer concentrations;




 



     
        • 

    
    warranty expectations and product return policies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    cost, performance and compatibility requirements.





 


    Our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate
    and manage these issues associated with our product development
    and market expansion. For example, our branded products are
    designed to attach to and interoperate with a wide variety of PC
    and CE devices and therefore their functionality is reliant on
    the manufacturer of such devices, or the associated operating
    systems, enabling the manufacturer’s devices to operate
    with our branded products. If our branded products are not
    compatible with a wide variety of devices, or if device
    manufacturers design their devices so that our branded products
    cannot operate with them, and we cannot quickly and efficiently
    adapt our branded products to address these compatibility
    issues, our business could suffer.


 



    Expanding
    into new hard drive markets exposes our business to different
    seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 


    The CE and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and
    volume demand cycles as compared to the PC market. By expanding
    into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations
    that are different from, and in addition to, those of the PC
    market. For example, because the primary customer for products
    such as our branded products are individual consumers, these
    markets experience a dramatic increase in demand during the
    winter holiday season. If we do not properly adjust our supply
    to new demand cycles such as this, we risk having excess
    inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient
    inventory during periods of high demand, therefore adversely
    affecting our operating results.


 



    If we do
    not predict the size and demands of the market for 2.5-inch hard
    drives, our business may suffer.


 


    To continue to increase the sale of our 2.5-inch hard drives in
    the mobile market, we must predict and successfully adapt to the
    differences between the desktop and mobile markets, such as
    different requirements, features and competitors. If we do not
    predict the size and demands of the markets for 2.5-inch hard
    drives, including the mobile market, our business may suffer.
    For example, if a market that traditionally has used 3.5-inch
    hard drives, such as the desktop PC market, shifts its volume
    demand to 2.5-inch hard drives at a faster rate than we
    anticipate, our ability to meet the demands of such market, as
    well as the mobile market, may be impaired, which may cause our
    business to suffer.


 



    Selling
    to the retail market has become an important part of our
    business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share
    or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating
    results could suffer.


 


    We sell our branded products directly to a select group of major
    retailers, for example, computer superstores and CE stores, and
    authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and
    online resellers. Our current retail customer base is primarily
    in the United States, Canada and Europe. We are facing increased
    competition from other companies for shelf space at a small
    number of major retailers that have strong buying power and
    pricing leverage. If we fail to successfully maintain a customer
    preference for
    WD®brand
    products or fail to successfully expand into multiple channels,
    our operating results may be adversely affected. We face strong
    competition in maintaining and trying to grow our market share
    in the retail market, particularly because of the relatively low
    barriers to entry in this market. For example, several
    additional hard drive manufacturers have recently disclosed
    plans to expand into the external storage market and as these
    companies attempt to gain market share, we may have difficulty
    in maintaining or growing our market share and there may be
    increased downward pressure on pricing. We will continue to
    introduce new products in the retail market that incorporate our
    disk drives; however, there can be no assurance that these
    products will gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our
    operating results could suffer.



    
    18



Table of Contents





    Loss of
    market share with or by a key customer could harm our operating
    results.


 


    During the year ended June 27, 2008, a large percentage of
    our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers, which
    accounted for 47% of our revenue. These customers have a variety
    of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial
    demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on
    contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk
    to us as the supplier. Even if we successfully qualify a product
    with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to
    purchase any minimum volume of products from us and may be able
    to cancel an order or terminate its relationship with us at any
    time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our
    principal customers is essential to our future performance. If
    we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their
    orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before
    we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of
    our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship,
    our operating results would likely be harmed. In addition, if
    customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that
    our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell
    our products to a particular customer, which could result in a
    decrease in our revenue.


 



    Current
    or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop
    an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match.


 


    It may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain
    an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or
    process technology, which may allow them to offer products or
    services that have a significant advantage over the products and
    services that we offer. Advantages could be in capacity,
    performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes.


 


    Higher capacity storage needs have typically been better served
    by magnetic hard drives than flash memory as hard drive
    manufacturers can offer better value at high capacities, while
    lower capacity needs have been successfully served by solid
    state storage such as flash memory technology. Advances in
    magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage
    technologies could result in competitive products that have
    better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our
    products. If we fail to be cost competitive against flash
    memory, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to companies
    using semiconductor technology.


 



    Further
    industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to
    our competitors.


 


    The hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the
    past several years. Consolidation by our competitors may enhance
    their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost
    structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage.
    Additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to
    uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could
    negatively impact our cost structure.


 



    Sales in
    the distribution channel are important to our business, and if
    we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if
    distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating
    results could suffer.


 


    Our distribution customers typically sell to small computer
    manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers.
    We face significant competition in this channel as a result of
    limited product qualification programs and a significant focus
    on price and availability of product. If we fail to remain
    competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and
    support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors,
    and our operating results could suffer. We also face significant
    risk in the distribution market for hard drives. If the
    distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing PC growth
    rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer
    buying preference from white box to branded PCs, or we
    experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the
    distribution channel, then our operating results would be
    adversely affected.


 



    The hard
    drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by
    significant shifts in market share among the major
    competitors.


 


    The price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases
    in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price
    reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess
    inventories or attempting to gain market share. In addition,
    rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and
    profitability of sales of existing products and increase the
    risk of inventory obsolescence. We also face competition from
    other companies that produce alternative storage technologies
    like flash memory. These factors, taken together, may result in
    significant shifts in market share among the industry’s
    major participants. In addition, product recalls can lead to a
    loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating
    results.



    
    19



Table of Contents





    Some of
    our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard
    drive industry periodically sell hard drives at prices that we
    cannot profitably match.


 


    Some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their
    revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry.
    Because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to
    achieve profitability, they periodically sell hard drives at
    lower prices and operate their hard drive business unit at a
    loss while still remaining profitable overall. In addition, if
    these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products
    to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard
    drives at low prices. Our operating results may be adversely
    affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by
    these companies.


 



    If we
    fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not
    purchase any units of a particular product line, which would
    have a significant adverse impact on our sales.


 


    We regularly engage in new product qualification with our
    customers. Once a product is accepted for qualification testing,
    failures or delays in the qualification process can result in
    our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of
    products is introduced. The effect of missing a product
    qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of
    high volume OEMs, which continue to consolidate their share of
    the PC and CE markets. If product life cycles lengthen, we may
    have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an
    opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which
    could harm our competitive position. These risks are increased
    because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to
    result in declining gross margins on our current generation
    products.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to product defects, which could result
    in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in
    excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than
    anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability
    limitations.


 


    We warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to
    five years. We test our hard drives in our manufacturing
    facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no
    assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our
    products, which may not become apparent until after the products
    have been sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk
    that product defects will occur, which could require a product
    recall. Product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a
    product recall occurs during the product’s warranty period,
    we may be required to replace the defective product. In
    addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our
    customers, and we may lose market share with our customers,
    including our OEM and ODM customers.


 


    Our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions
    of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper
    installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the
    possession of someone other than us. We record an accrual for
    estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. We
    may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty
    provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues
    related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses
    are significant, it could adversely affect our business,
    financial condition and operating results.


 



    A low
    cost structure is critical to our operating results and
    increased costs may adversely affect our operating
    margin.


 


    A low cost structure for our products, including critical
    components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of
    our business, and our operating results depend on our ability to
    maintain competitive cost structures on new and established
    products. If our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost
    structure for manufacturing hard drives, and we are unable to
    match their cost structure, we could be at a competitive
    disadvantage to those competitors.


 



    Shortages
    of commodity materials, price volatility, or use by other
    industries of materials used in the hard drive industry, may
    increase our cost structure.


 


    There are costs for certain commodity materials, an increase of
    which increases our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard
    drives and key components. Shortages of materials such as
    stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium or
    platinum increase our costs and may result in lower operating
    margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these
    increased costs. For example, in advance of the 2008 Beijing
    Summer Olympics, in seeking to minimize pollution, the
    People’s Republic of China shut down factories within a
    specified radius of Beijing. These factory shut-downs may cause
    a future shortage in materials we use in nickel plating of
    magnetic media, causing prices to increase and adversely
    affecting our nickel plating costs. Additionally, perpendicular
    recording technology requires increased usage of precious metals
    such as ruthenium and platinum, the price of which may continue
    to be volatile, which



    
    20



Table of Contents




    could adversely affect our operating margins. Furthermore, if
    other high volume industries increase their demand for materials
    such as these, our costs may further increase which could have
    an adverse effect on our operating margins. The volatility in
    the cost of oil also affects our transportation costs and may
    result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these
    increased costs through to our customers.


 



    If we
    fail to maintain effective relationships with our major
    component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at
    risk and our profitability could suffer.


 


    We make most of our own heads and media for some of our product
    families; however, we do not manufacture many of the component
    parts used in our hard drives. As a result, the success of our
    products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate
    parts that are “best in class” from reliable component
    suppliers. To do so, we must effectively manage our
    relationships with our major component suppliers. We must also
    effectively integrate different products from a variety of
    suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which
    can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and
    media components. In August 2003, we settled litigation with a
    supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel
    devices for our hard drives. As a result of the disputes that
    gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until
    another supplier’s read channel devices could be designed
    into our products. Similar disputes with other strategic
    component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results.


 



    Violation
    of labor or environmental laws and practices by our suppliers or
    sub-suppliers could harm our business.


 


    We expect our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable
    laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws,
    and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of
    conduct. While our internal operating guidelines promote ethical
    business practices, we do not control our suppliers or
    sub-suppliers or their labor or environmental practices. The
    violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our
    suppliers or sub-suppliers, or divergence of a supplier’s
    or sub-supplier’s labor or environmental practices from
    those generally accepted as ethical in the U.S., could harm our
    business by:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product
    components;




 



     
        • 

    
    damaging our reputation;




 



     
        • 

    
    forcing us to find alternate component sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    reducing demand for our products (for example, through a
    consumer boycott); or




 



     
        • 

    
    exposing us to potential liability for our supplier’s or
    sub-supplier’s wrongdoings.





 



    Dependence
    on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and
    manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or
    increased costs.


 


    Certain components are available from a limited number of
    suppliers, and we are sole sourced with some of these suppliers
    on certain products. Because we depend on a limited number of
    suppliers for certain hard drive components and manufacturing
    equipment, each of the following could significantly harm our
    operating results:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    an increase in the cost of such components or equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    an extended shortage of required components or equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    consolidation of key suppliers, such as the acquisition of
    Brilliant Manufacturing Limited by Nidec Corporation, the
    acquisition of Agere Systems Inc. by LSI Corporation, the
    acquisition of Infineon Technologies’ hard drive
    semiconductor business by LSI Corporation, the acquisition of
    Alps Electric Co. Ltd.’s magnetic device division’s
    assets and related intellectual property by TDK Corp, and the
    acquisition of Magnecomp Precision Technology Public Company
    Limited by TDK Corp;




 



     
        • 

    
    failure of a key supplier’s business process; or




 



     
        • 

    
    failure of key suppliers to remain in business, to remain
    independent merchant suppliers, to adjust to market conditions,
    or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements.






    
    21



Table of Contents



 



    If
    components and equipment that we use are available from only a
    limited number of suppliers or are in short supply, it may
    negatively impact our production and cause us to lose
    revenue.


 


    Our future operating results may also depend substantially on
    our suppliers’ ability to timely qualify their components
    in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these
    components in sufficient volumes to meet our production
    requirements. A number of the components that we use are
    available from only a single or limited number of qualified
    outside suppliers, and may be used across multiple product
    lines. In addition, some of the components (or component types)
    used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile
    telephones and digital cameras. If there is a significant
    simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or
    component type) from several high volume industries, resulting
    in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short
    supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue
    with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in
    obtaining that component. If we are unable to obtain sufficient
    quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic
    components, or other necessary components, we may experience
    production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. If a
    component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss
    of revenue.


 


    In addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or
    testing processes is available only from a limited number of
    suppliers. Some of this equipment uses materials that at times
    could be in short supply. If these materials are not available,
    or are not available in the quantities we require for our
    manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture
    our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant
    loss of revenue.


 



    Contractual
    commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying
    increased charges and cash advances for such
    components.


 


    To reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide
    significant lead times when buying components. As a result, we
    may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel orders,
    which may occur when we make technology transitions or when our
    component needs change. In addition, we have entered into
    contractual commitments with component suppliers and may enter
    into contractual commitments with other component suppliers, in
    an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those
    components, and enable us to purchase such components at
    favorable prices. Some of these commitments require or may
    require us to buy a substantial number of components from the
    supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier;
    however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory
    increase or stabilization of the supply of such components.


 



    Failure
    by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and
    manufacture components for our products may adversely affect our
    operations.


 


    We rely on suppliers for various component parts that we
    integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves,
    such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions.
    Some of these components must be specifically designed to be
    compatible for use in our products, and are only available from
    a limited number of suppliers with whom we are sole sourced for
    certain products. We are therefore dependent on the suppliers of
    these various components to be able and willing to dedicate
    adequate engineering resources to develop technology that can be
    successfully integrated with our products, and to manufacture
    these components efficiently. The failure of component suppliers
    to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture
    technology that can be integrated into our products may cause us
    to experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and
    shipment of hard drive products, or our expansion into new
    technology and markets, therefore adversely affecting our
    business and financial results.


 



    There are
    certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset
    utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy
    to vertically integrate our operations.


 


    Our vertical integration of head and media manufacturing
    resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as
    we now manufacture heads and media for use in many of the hard
    drives we manufacture. Consequently, we make more capital
    investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated
    and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our
    prior financial business model. If the overall level of
    production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce
    our fixed costs to match sales, our head or media manufacturing
    assets may face under-utilization that may impact our operating
    results. We are therefore subject to additional risks related to
    overall asset utilization,



    
    22



Table of Contents




    including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to
    drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of
    components that we do not manufacture ourselves.


 


    In addition, we may incur additional risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    failure to continue to leverage the integration of our media
    technology with our head technology;




 



     
        • 

    
    insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs if we are
    unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads or media;




 



     
        • 

    
    third party head or media suppliers may not continue to do
    business with us or may not do business with us on the same
    terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed;




 



     
        • 

    
    claims that our manufacturing of heads or media may infringe
    certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing
    equipment for our head or media manufacturing processes and
    replacement parts for such equipment.





 


    If we do not adequately address the challenges related to our
    head or media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations
    could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or
    profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results.


 



    If we are
    unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and media
    with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell
    our products may be significantly diminished, which could
    materially and adversely affect our business and financial
    results.


 


    Under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a
    substantial portion of the heads and media used in some of the
    hard drive products we manufacture. Consequently, we are more
    dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and
    less able to take advantage of head and media technologies
    developed by other manufacturers. Technology transition for head
    and media designs is critical to increasing our volume
    production of heads and media. There can be no assurance,
    however, that we will be successful in timely and
    cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or media for
    products using future technologies. We also may not effectively
    transition our head or media design and technology to achieve
    acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary
    to satisfy our customers’ product needs, or we may
    encounter quality problems with the heads or media we
    manufacture. In addition, we may not have access to external
    sources of supply without incurring substantial costs which
    would negatively impact our business and financial results.


 



    Changes
    in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial
    results.


 


    If product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new
    technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular
    product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. If
    product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our
    overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of
    which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition,
    shortening of product life cycles also make it more difficult to
    recover the cost of product development before the product
    becomes obsolete. Our failure to recover the cost of product
    development in the future could adversely affect our operating
    results.


 



    If we
    fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to
    increase areal density, we may fail to remain
    competitive.


 


    New products in the hard drive market typically require higher
    areal densities than previous product generations, posing
    formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. Higher areal
    densities require existing head and media technology to be
    improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on
    a single disk. In addition, our introduction of new products
    during a technology transition increases the likelihood of
    unexpected quality concerns. Our failure to bring high quality
    new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put
    us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these
    results.



    
    23



Table of Contents





    A
    fundamental change in recording technology could result in
    significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us
    at a competitive disadvantage.


 


    Historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change
    in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and
    timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new
    technology fails to remain competitive. There are some
    technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane
    (“CPP”) and heat assisted magnetic recording
    (“HAMR”), discrete track recording (“DTR”)
    and other similar potentially break through technology, that
    will represent revolutionary recording technologies if they can
    be implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis
    ahead of the industry, which could put us at a competitive
    disadvantage. As a result of these technology shifts, we could
    incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as
    heads, media, and tools to remain competitive. If we fail to
    successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are
    significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new
    technologies, we may not be able to offer products with
    capacities that our customers desire. For example, new recording
    technology requires changes in the manufacturing process of
    heads and media, which may cause longer production times and
    reduce the overall availability of media in the industry.
    Additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of
    integration between heads and media which may lengthen our time
    of development of hard drives using this technology.
    Furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new
    technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to
    ensure our access to components that accommodate the new
    technology. These results would increase our operating costs,
    which may negatively impact our operating results.


 



    The
    difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of
    areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may
    impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost
    reduction.


 


    Storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is
    determined by the number of disks and each disk’s areal
    density. Areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic
    bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk.
    Generally, the higher the areal density, the more information
    can be stored on a single platter. Historically, we have been
    able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through
    increases in areal density. Increases in areal density mean that
    the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same
    capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost.
    However, because increasing areal density has become more
    difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require
    increases in component costs, and other opportunities to reduce
    costs may not continue at historical rates. Additionally,
    increases in areal density may require us to make further
    capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment
    needed as a result of an increased number of GB per platter. Our
    inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our
    operating results.


 



    If we do
    not properly manage the technology transitions of our products,
    our operating results may be negatively affected.


 


    Many of the markets in which we offer our products are
    undergoing technology transitions. For example, in order to
    handle higher data transfer rates, the PC and enterprise markets
    are transitioning from parallel interfaces, such as PATA and
    SCSI, to serial interfaces, such as SATA and SAS, respectively.
    We must effectively manage the transition of the features of our
    products to serial interfaces in order to remain competitive and
    cost effective. In the PC market, we currently offer PATA and
    SATA products and must timely and efficiently manage both our
    manufacture of PATA products through their end of life and our
    ramp of SATA products and features. If we fail to successfully
    manage the transition from parallel interfaces to serial
    interfaces, our operating results may suffer.


 



    Our
    high-volume hard drive and media manufacturing facilities, and
    the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers, are
    concentrated in Asia, which subjects us to the risk of damage or
    loss of any of these facilities and localized risks to employees
    in these locations.


 


    Our high-volume hard drive and media manufacturing facilities
    are in Malaysia and Thailand and the manufacturing facilities of
    many of our suppliers are in Asia. A condition or event such as
    political instability, civil unrest or a power outage, or a
    fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster that adversely affects
    any of these facilities or our ability to manufacture could
    limit the total volume of hard drives we are able to manufacture
    and result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating
    results. Similarly, a localized health risk affecting our
    employees or the staff of our suppliers, such as a new pandemic
    influenza in Asia, could impair the total volume of hard drives
    that we are able to manufacture.



    
    24



Table of Contents





    Our head
    manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication
    facility in California and a single head gimbal assembly
    facility in Thailand, and our media operations include four
    facilities in Malaysia, which subjects us to substantial risk of
    damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are
    disrupted.


 


    As we have previously discussed in public statements, our
    business plan presently contemplates that we will design and
    manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and media
    required for the hard drives we manufacture. We fabricate wafers
    in our Fremont, California facility, and the wafers are then
    sent to our Thailand facility for slider fabrication and wafer
    slicing and HGA assembly and testing. Additionally, we
    manufacture the majority of our media and substrates in four
    facilities in Penang, Johor and Sarawak, Malaysia. A fire,
    flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as
    a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities
    would significantly affect supply of our heads or media, and
    limit our ability to manufacture hard drives which would result
    in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial
    harm to our operating results.


 



    Our
    operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to
    optimize the overall quality, time-to-market and time-to-volume
    of new and established products.


 


    To achieve consistent success with our customers, we must
    balance several key attributes such as time-to-market,
    time-to-volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad
    product portfolio. Our operating results will be adversely
    affected if we fail to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    maintain overall quality of products in new and established
    programs;




 



     
        • 

    
    produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our
    customers demand while managing the integration of new and
    established technologies;




 



     
        • 

    
    develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall
    specifications or features that our customers may require for
    their business needs;




 



     
        • 

    
    obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products,
    redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    obtain customer qualification of these products on a timely
    basis by meeting all of our customers’ needs for
    performance, quality and features;




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain an adequate supply of components required to
    manufacture our products; or




 



     
        • 

    
    maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our
    product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin
    speeds in response to changes in customers’ product demands.





 



    Manufacturing
    and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous
    risks.


 


    We are subject to risks associated with our foreign
    manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts,
    including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    obtaining requisite U.S. and foreign governmental permits
    and approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions;




 



     
        • 

    
    political instability and civil unrest;




 



     
        • 

    
    limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time
    required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods
    of price declines;




 



     
        • 

    
    higher freight rates;




 



     
        • 

    
    labor problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    trade restrictions or higher tariffs;




 



     
        • 

    
    copyright levies or similar fees imposed in European and other
    countries:




 



     
        • 

    
    exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations;






    
    25



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    increasing labor and overhead costs; and




 



     
        • 

    
    loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements
    or treaties with foreign tax authorities.





 



    Terrorist
    attacks may adversely affect our business and operating
    results.


 


    The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war
    or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and
    insurance markets and have significantly increased the
    political, economic and social instability in some of the
    geographic areas in which we operate. Additionally, it is
    uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various
    governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will
    have on shipping costs. Acts of terrorism, either domestically
    or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability.
    To the extent this results in disruption or delays of our
    manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our
    business, operating results and financial condition could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Sudden
    disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an
    impact on our operations.


 


    We ship the majority of our products to our various customers
    via air freight. The sudden unavailability of air cargo
    operations used to ship our products would impair our ability to
    deliver our products in a timely and efficient manner, which
    could adversely impact our operating results. We also ship a
    portion of our product via ocean freight, and events or
    conditions at shipping ports, such as labor difficulties or
    disputes, could also impact our operating results by impairing
    our ability to timely and efficiently deliver these products.


 



    We are
    vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our
    business.


 


    We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among
    other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products,
    fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make
    payments. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption
    from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures,
    computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other
    events. Our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and
    intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as
    employees. Despite any precautions we may take, such problems
    could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our
    business, which could harm our reputation and financial
    condition.


 



    We may be
    unable to retain our key staff and skilled employees.


 


    Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key
    staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely
    difficult to replace. Worldwide competition for skilled
    employees in the hard drive industry is intense. Volatility or
    lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely
    affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who
    have received equity compensation. If we are unable to retain
    our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and
    integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to
    implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating
    results would likely be harmed.


 



    The
    nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property
    and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of
    significant litigation.


 


    The hard drive industry has been characterized by significant
    litigation. This includes litigation relating to patent and
    other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and
    other types of litigation. Litigation can be expensive, lengthy
    and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the
    results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in
    adverse rulings or decisions. We may enter into settlements or
    be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the
    aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition or operating results.


 


    We evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices
    of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to
    time. If claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be
    required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our
    existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology.
    Such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly.
    In addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against
    us, which settlement could be costly. We may also be liable for
    any past infringement. If there is an adverse ruling against us
    in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued
    barring production or sale of any infringing product. It could
    also result in a damage award



    
    26



Table of Contents




    equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a
    finding of willful infringement, treble damages. Any of these
    results would increase our costs and harm our operating results.


 



    Our
    reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary
    information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients
    of our business could be copied by competitors.


 


    Our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary
    nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual
    property such as our process technology. Despite safeguards, to
    the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise
    capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or
    impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. Also,
    the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our
    intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the
    United States. In addition to patent protection of intellectual
    property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and
    processes to be proprietary and confidential. We rely upon
    employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and
    contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to
    protect our proprietary information. However, any of our
    registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be
    challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might
    harm our operating results.


 



    Environmental
    regulation costs could harm our operating results.


 


    We may be subject to various state, federal and international
    laws and regulations governing the environment, including those
    restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic
    products and making producers of those products financially
    responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and
    disposal of certain products. Such laws and regulations have
    been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate. For
    example, the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the
    Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic
    Equipment (“RoHS”) directive, which prohibits the use
    of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the Waste
    Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”)
    directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and
    electronic equipment onto the market in the EU to put a clearly
    identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to
    EU member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and
    provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the
    equipment. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations
    where we manufacture or sell our products. We will need to
    ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are
    enacted, and that our component suppliers also timely comply
    with such laws and regulations. If we fail to timely comply with
    the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our
    products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition and operating results.


 


    In connection with our compliance with such environmental laws
    and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject
    to disruptions to our operations and logistics. In addition, if
    we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be
    subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. If
    we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with
    environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses
    in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial
    condition or operating results could suffer.


 



    Fluctuations
    in currency exchange rates as a result of our international
    operations may negatively affect our operating
    results.


 


    Because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs
    are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
    Further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Thai Baht and
    of the Malaysian Ringgit may negatively impact our operating
    results.


 


    The Thai Baht is a free floating currency while the Malaysian
    Ringgit exchange rate policy is one of a managed float. We have
    attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate
    changes by, among other things, entering into short-term,
    forward contracts. However, these contracts do not cover our
    full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency
    controls are put in place. Currently, we hedge the Thai Baht,
    Malaysian Ringgit, Euro and British Pound Sterling with forward
    contracts.


 


    If the U.S. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most
    foreign currencies, the U.S. dollar equivalents of unhedged
    manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion
    of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated.
    Conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues
    since revenues are substantially U.S. dollar denominated.



    
    27



Table of Contents





    Increases
    in our customers’ credit risk could result in credit losses
    and an increase in our operating costs.


 


    Some of our OEM customers have adopted a subcontractor model
    that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as
    ODMs, that provide manufacturing services to our OEM customers.
    Because these subcontractors are generally not as well
    capitalized as our direct OEM customers, this subcontractor
    model exposes us to increased credit risks. Our agreements with
    our OEM customers may not permit us to increase our product
    prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. Additionally, as
    we attempt to expand our OEM and distribution channel sales into
    emerging economies such as Brazil, Russia, India and China, the
    customers in these regions may have relatively short operating
    histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess
    the associated credit risks. Any credit losses we may suffer as
    a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit
    losses from any significant customer, would increase our
    operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating
    results.


 



    Negative
    conditions in the credit markets could result in a decrease in
    sales and lower revenue in the distribution channel.


 


    Many of our customers in the distribution channel rely on credit
    financing in order to purchase our products. If the recent
    negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our
    customers’ access to credit, product orders in the
    distribution channel may decrease which could result in lower
    revenue.


 



    Inaccurate
    projections of demand for our product can cause large
    fluctuations in our quarterly results.


 


    We often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in
    the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us
    to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter.
    In addition, our quarterly projections and results may be
    subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of
    other factors including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major
    customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    our product mix;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the prices of our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    manufacturing delays or interruptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our
    products;




 



     
        • 

    
    variations in the cost of components for our products;




 



     
        • 

    
    limited availability of components that we obtain from a single
    or a limited number of suppliers;




 



     
        • 

    
    competition and consolidation in the data storage industry;




 



     
        • 

    
    seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for PCs often due to
    technological advances; and




 



     
        • 

    
    availability and rates of transportation.





 



    Rapidly
    changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult
    to predict actual results.


 


    We have made and continue to make a number of estimates and
    assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting.
    The highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly
    changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual
    results may differ significantly from our estimates and
    assumptions. These changes have impacted our financial results
    in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Key
    estimates and assumptions for us include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and
    allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and
    distributors;




 



     
        • 

    
    inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of
    cost or market value (net realizable value);




 



     
        • 

    
    reserves for doubtful accounts;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for product returns;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for warranty costs related to product defects;




 



     
        • 

    
    accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits.






    
    28



Table of Contents



 



    The
    market price of our common stock is volatile.


 


    The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue
    to be, extremely volatile. Factors such as the following may
    significantly affect the market price of our common stock:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results;




 



     
        • 

    
    announcements of technological innovations by us or our
    competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of
    sales of our existing products and increase the risk of
    inventory obsolescence;




 



     
        • 

    
    new products introduced by us or our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price
    erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry
    consolidation;




 



     
        • 

    
    developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights;




 



     
        • 

    
    conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and
    content management, storage and communication industries;




 



     
        • 

    
    growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate
    periods;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating
    specifically to us or the hard drive industry in
    general; and




 



     
        • 

    
    macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally.





 


    In addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock
    market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from
    time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many
    high technology companies. These fluctuations often appear to be
    unrelated to the operating performance of the companies.


 


    Securities class action lawsuits are often brought against
    companies after periods of volatility in the market price of
    their securities. A number of such suits have been filed against
    us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such
    matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of
    resources and management’s attention.


 



    Negative
    conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity
    of a portion of our investment portfolio.


 


    Our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities
    totaling $28 million as of June 27, 2008. The recent
    negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented
    some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction-rate
    securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale
    has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities.
    If the credit market does not improve, auctions for our invested
    amounts may fail. If an auction fails for securities in which we
    have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our
    auction-rate securities at par, should we need or desire to
    access the funds invested in those securities. In the event we
    need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do
    so until a future auction on these investments is successful or
    a buyer is found outside the auction process. If a buyer is
    found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we
    may incur a loss. For example, during the year ended
    June 27, 2008, the market values of some of the
    auction-rate securities we owned were impacted by the
    macro-economic credit market conditions and as a result, we
    recognized $10 million of other-than-temporary losses to
    mark the remaining investments to estimated market value.
    Further, rating downgrades of the security issuer or the
    third-parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust
    the carrying value of these investments through an additional
    impairment charge.


 



    If our
    internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial
    results or our stock price may be adversely affected.


 


    Our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of
    June 27, 2008, in compliance with Section 404 of the
    Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our internal control over financial
    reporting was effective. We believe that we currently have
    adequate internal control procedures in place for future
    periods; however, if our internal control over financial
    reporting is found to be ineffective, investors may lose
    confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which
    may adversely affect our financial results or our stock price.



    
    29



Table of Contents






    
    



    
    Item 1B