ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS We are subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control, that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information included in this report and other documents filed by us with the SEC from time to time, when making an investment decision.Risks Related to Legislation and RegulationOur business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation.We are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation. We are subject to regulation by the PSCW of retail electric, gas and steam rates in the state of Wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters. In addition, we are subject to regulation by the MPSC of various matters associated with retail electric service in the state of Michigan, except the issuance of securities in the ordinary course of business, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates in the ordinary course of business. Further, Wisconsin Electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by FERC, and FERC also regulates our wholesale power service practices, electric reliability requirements and accounting, and participation in the interstate natural gas pipeline capacity market. Our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs.We are obligated to comply in good faith with all applicable governmental rules and regulations. If it is determined that we failed to comply with any applicable rules or regulations, whether through new interpretations or applications of the regulations or otherwise, we may be liable for customer refunds, penalties and other amounts, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.The rates we are allowed to charge our customers for electric, natural gas and steam services have the most significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Within our regulated energy segment, approximately 85% of our 2014 electric revenues were regulated by the PSCW, 2% were regulated by the MPSC and the balance of our electric revenues were regulated by the FERC. All of our natural gas and steam revenues are regulated by the PSCW. Rate regulation is based on providing an opportunity to recover prudently incurred costs and earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital. However, our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent on regulatory action and there is no assurance that our regulators will consider all of our costs to have been prudently incurred. In addition, our rate proceedings may not always result in rates that fully recover our costs or provide for a reasonable return on equity. We defer certain costs and revenues as regulatory assets and liabilities for future recovery or refund to customers, as authorized by our regulators. Future recovery of regulatory assets is not assured, and is subject to review and approval by our regulators. If recovery of regulatory assets is not approved or is no longer deemed probable, these costs would be charged to income in the current period and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.We believe we have obtained the necessary permits, approvals and certificates for our existing operations and that our respective businesses are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations applicable to us cannot be predicted. Changes in regulation, interpretations of regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial compliance costs.Governmental agencies could modify our permits, authorizations or licenses.Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas are required to comply with the terms of various permits, authorizations and licenses. These permits, authorizations and licenses may be revoked or modified by the agencies that granted them if facts develop that differ significantly from the facts assumed when they were issued. In addition, discharge permits and other approvals and licenses are often granted for a term that is less than the expected life of the associated facility. Licenses and permits may require periodic renewal, which may result in additional requirements being imposed by the granting agency.Also, if we are unable to obtain, renew or comply with these governmental permits, authorizations or licenses, or if we are unable to recover any increased costs of complying with additional license requirements or any other  25Wisconsin Energy CorporationITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-Kassociated costs in our rates in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.We may face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations.Our operations are subject to extensive environmental legislation and regulation by state and federal environmental agencies governing, among other things, air emissions such as Carbon Dioxide (CO2), Sulfur Dioxide (SO2), Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), fine particulates and mercury; water discharges; and management of hazardous, toxic and solid wastes and substances. We incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities.The EPA has adopted and is in the process of implementing regulations governing the emission of NOx, SO2, fine particulate matter (PM2.5), mercury and other air pollutants under the Clean Air Act (CAA) through the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS), the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS) rule and other air quality regulations. The EPA has also indicated that it intends to propose rules later this year that will expand traditional federal jurisdiction over navigable waters and related wetlands for permitting and other regulatory matters. In addition, the EPA has finalized rules governing cooling water intake structures at our power plants and proposed revisions to the effluent guidelines for steam electric generating plants under the Clean Water Act (CWA). The EPA also adopted the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR), which provides for limits on the interstate transport of NOx and SO2 emissions. In April 2014, the United States Supreme Court issued a decision largely upholding CSAPR and remanding it for further proceedings. In October 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued a decision that cleared the way for the EPA to begin implementing CSAPR on January 1, 2015. Although the EPA has finalized some parts of the rule, there are several items that still need to be addressed. Therefore, there is still uncertainty as to what capital expenditures may ultimately be required to comply with these regulations.We continue to assess the potential cost of complying, and to explore different alternatives in order to comply, with these and other environmental regulations. For example, we are in the process of converting the fuel source for VAPP from coal to natural gas. We currently expect the cost of this conversion to be between $65 million and $70 million, excluding AFUDC. These and other compliance costs we expect to incur over the next three years are included in the table under "Capital Expenditures" in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.Existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted at the federal or state level which could result in significant additional expenditures, operating restrictions on our facilities and increased compliance costs. In addition, the operation of emission control equipment and regulations on our intake and discharge of water could increase our operating costs and could reduce the generating capacity of our power plants. Additional environmental legislation and regulation and the related compliance costs could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions.If we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines.In the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures and related costs from our customers in the future, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, increased costs recovered through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Our electric and gas utility businesses are also subject to significant liabilities related to the investigation and remediation of environmental contamination at certain of our current and former facilities, and at third-party owned sites. Due to the potential for imposition of stricter standards and greater regulation in the future and the possibility that other potentially responsible parties may not be financially able to contribute to cleanup costs, conditions may change or additional contamination may be discovered, our remediation costs could increase, and the timing of our capital and/or operating expenditures in the future may accelerate.Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage, personal injury, common law nuisance and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements has increased generally throughout the U.S. In particular, personal injury, property damage and other claims for damages alleged to have been caused  26Wisconsin Energy CorporationITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-Kby coal combustion residuals and alleged exposure to hazardous materials have become more frequent. In addition to claims relating to our current facilities, we may also be subject to potential liability in connection with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities. If we fail (or failed) to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause (or caused) harm to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil penalties and damages against us. The incurrence of a material environmental liability or a material judgment in any action for personal injury or property damage related to environmental matters could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We may face significant costs to comply with the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions.Federal, state, regional and international authorities have undertaken efforts to limit greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The regulation of GHG emissions continues to be a top priority for the President's administration.The EPA is pursuing regulation of GHG emissions under the CAA. The EPA issued new rules with GHG limits for new fossil fueled power plants that became effective in June 2014. The rule does not apply to certain natural gas fueled peaking plants, biomass units or oil fueled stationary combustion turbines.With respect to existing generating units, the EPA issued a proposed rule in June 2014, and is expected to issue a final rule by mid-summer 2015. The proposed rule would require states to submit state plans as early as June 30, 2016. Single states requesting a one year extension would be required to submit state plans by June 30, 2017, and states that are part of a multi-state plan that request a two year extension would be required to submit state plans by June 30, 2018. We are in the process of reviewing the proposed rule to determine the potential impacts to our operations. We expect that these regulations as currently proposed would impact how we operate our existing facilities, particularly our fossil fueled power plants and biomass facility, and could have a material adverse impact on our operating costs.Legislation to regulate GHG emissions and establish renewable and efficiency standards has also been considered on the state level. Both Wisconsin and Michigan have adopted renewable portfolio standards and energy optimization (efficiency) targets.There is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover costs incurred to comply with the impending regulations that will require a reduction in GHG emissions or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. These and any other related regulations may cause our environmental compliance spending over the next several years to differ materially from the amounts currently estimated. Any legislation or regulation that may ultimately be adopted, either at the federal or state level, designed to reduce GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on our electric generation and natural gas distribution operations. Such regulation could make some of our electric generating units uneconomic to maintain or operate, and could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions. These regulations could also adversely affect our future results of operations, cash flows and possibly financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.Wisconsin Electric could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of mandatory reliability standards.Wisconsin Electric is subject to mandatory reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards established by the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC. The critical infrastructure protection standards focus on controlling access to critical physical and cybersecurity assets. Compliance with the mandatory reliability standards could subject Wisconsin Electric to higher operating costs. If Wisconsin Electric were ever found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability standards it could be subject to sanctions, including substantial monetary penalties.Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility businesses and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock.Under the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility businesses. Under the Act, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system generally may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates in the system, subject to certain exceptions. 27Wisconsin Energy CorporationITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-KIn addition, the Act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a Wisconsin public utility unless the PSCW has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, investors and the public. This provision and other requirements of the Act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of Wisconsin Energy. As a result, stockholders may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of their shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices.A decrease in the return on equity earned by participants in MISO could have a negative impact on our results of operations.In June 2014, FERC issued an order revising its methodology for determining the base return on equity for jurisdictional electric utilities, including transmission owners. FERC expects its new methodology will narrow the "zone" of reasonable returns on equity. FERC also indicated that it will continue its policy that an electric utility's total return on equity is limited to the zone of reasonableness. FERC has set a complaint against MISO and the transmission owners participating in MISO challenging the owners' 12.38% base return on equity for hearing. There is a risk that FERC would reduce the allowed return on equity ATC receives as a transmission owning member of MISO, which ultimately could reduce our earnings with respect to our investment in ATC. In fact, during the fourth quarter of 2014, ATC reduced its earnings to reflect the potential for lower allowed returns on equity.Risks Related to the Operation of Our BusinessOur financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities.Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and distribution, as well as our gas distribution, facilities. Operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; terrorist attacks; cyber security threats; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts, pandemic health events such as influenzas or other similar occurrences. Unplanned outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs. A decrease in revenues from these facilities or an increase in operating costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.Customer growth in our service areas affects our results of operations.Our results of operations are affected by customer growth in our service areas. Customer growth and energy use can be affected by population growth as well as economic factors in Wisconsin and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, including job and income growth. Customer growth directly influences the demand for electricity and gas, and the need for additional power generation and generating facilities. Population declines and/or business closings in our service territories or slower than anticipated customer growth has a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flow and could expose us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs if customers are unable to pay their bills.Energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year.Our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses. Demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating. In addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season. As a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder. Our rates in Wisconsin are set by the PSCW based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages. Mild temperatures during the summer cooling season and during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business. In addition, mild temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business. 28Wisconsin Energy CorporationITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-KFactors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of construction projects.Our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure and electric generating facilities. We expect to spend an aggregate of between $3.3 billion and $3.5 billion during the period 2015 to 2019 on capital investments in our utility and non-utility energy business. These types of construction projects are subject to many of the usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time. These risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the ability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials; the ability of the contractors to perform under their contracts; strikes; adverse weather conditions; potential legal challenges; changes in applicable law or regulations; other governmental actions; continued public and policymaker support for such projects; and events in the global economy.Certain of these projects require the approval of our regulators. In the event we receive approval, total costs of a project may be higher than estimated and/or higher than amounts approved by our regulators, and there is no guarantee that we will be allowed to recover these additional costs in rates.Severe weather events, such as floods, droughts, tornadoes and blizzards, could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of our facilities.Severe weather events could result in substantial damage to our electric generating and distribution facilities, as well as our gas distribution facilities and ATC's transmission lines. Our hydroelectric generation operations could be adversely affected if there is a significant change in water levels in their respective waterways. In addition, a significant reduction in water levels in waterways that supply cooling water to our power plants, whether by drought or otherwise, could restrict or prevent the operation of such facilities.In the event we experience any of these weather events or other natural disaster, recovery of any costs in excess of any reserves or applicable insurance is subject to the approval of the PSCW and/or MPSC. There is no guarantee that we will be allowed to fully recover any such costs or that cost recovery will not be delayed or otherwise conditioned. Any denial or delay in recovery of any such costs could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.In addition, damages resulting from severe weather events within our service territories may result in the loss of customers and reduced demand for electricity and natural gas for extended periods. Any significant loss of customers or reduction in demand could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.Advances in technology could make our electric generating facilities less competitive.We generate power at central station power plants to achieve economies of scale and produce power at a competitive cost. There are distributed generation technologies that produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines and solar cells, which have become more cost competitive. It is possible that advances in technology will continue to reduce the costs of these alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of central station power electric production. If these technologies became cost competitive and achieved economies of scale, our market share could be eroded, and the value of our generating facilities could be reduced. Advances in technology could also change the channels through which our electric customers purchase or use power, which could reduce our sales and revenues or increase our expenses.We could be the subject of cyber intrusions that disrupt our electric generation and gas distribution operations and/or result in security breaches that expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information, litigation and potential liability.We face the risk of physical and cyber attacks, both threatened and actual, against our generation facilities and electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, as well as our information and technology systems and network infrastructure, which could adversely impact our ability to generate, support and deliver electricity and natural gas, or otherwise operate our facilities in the most efficient manner or at all.We operate in an industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure, which are part of an interconnected regional transmission grid. In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we collect and retain sensitive information including personal identification information  29Wisconsin Energy CorporationITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-Kabout our customers and employees and other confidential information. We face on-going threats to our assets and technology systems. Despite the implementation of strong security measures, all assets and systems are potentially vulnerable to disability, failures or unauthorized access due to human error or physical or cyber attacks. If our assets or systems were to fail, be physically damaged or be breached and were not recovered in a timely manner, we may unable to perform critical business functions, and sensitive and other data could be compromised.Cyber intrusions, including those targeting the electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for the electric and gas distribution systems, could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric generation and/or gas distribution operations. Any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches. Furthermore, we may need to obtain more expensive purchased power to meet customer demand for electricity if our electric generating facilities are unable to operate at full capacity as a result of a cyber intrusion. Any resulting loss of revenue or increase in expense could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition.In addition, any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, stockholder, employee or proprietary data as a result of cyber intrusion or otherwise could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers, stockholders and regulators, among others.In addition to lost revenues and increased costs that we could incur as a result of a cyber attack, we may be required to incur significant costs associated with governmental actions in response to such attacks or to strengthen our information and electronic control systems. We could also need to obtain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks.We are a holding company and rely on the earnings of our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations.As a holding company with no operations of our own, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations. Prior to distributing cash to Wisconsin Energy, our subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred stock dividends. Our subsidiaries also have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them. In addition, each of the bank back-up credit facilities for Wisconsin Energy, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained.Acts of terrorism could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our electric generation and gas distribution facilities, including the facilities of third parties on which we rely, could be targets of terrorist activities. A terrorist attack on our facilities (or those of third parties) could result in a full or partial disruption of our ability to generate, transmit, transport, purchase or distribute electricity or natural gas or cause environmental repercussions. Any operational disruption or environmental repercussions could result in a significant decrease in our revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could adversely impact our results of operations.We operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. These operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. Failure to hire and obtain replacement employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. If we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 30Wisconsin Energy CorporationITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-KFailure of a counterparty to one of our power purchase agreements could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.We have entered into several power purchase agreements with non-affiliated companies, and continue to look for additional opportunities to enter into these agreements. Currently, sales through power purchase agreements are responsible for approximately 7.8% of our electric revenues. Revenues are dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under the power purchase agreements. Although we have a comprehensive credit evaluation process and contractual protections, it is possible that one or more purchasers could fail to perform their obligations under the power purchase agreements. If this were to occur, we would expect that any operating and other costs that were initially allocated to a defaulting customer's power purchase agreement would be reallocated among our retail customers. To the extent there is any regulatory lag to adjust rates, a customer default under a power purchase agreement could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows.We are subject to risks associated with changing customer behaviors, including energy conservation and the adoption of new technologies.Changes in customer behaviors in response to changing conditions and preferences or changes in the adoption of technologies could affect the consumption of electricity. Customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity, natural gas and steam in response to decreases in their disposable income, increases in energy prices and/or individual conservation efforts. With respect to customer behavior, federal and state programs exist to influence how customers use energy. In addition, Wisconsin and Michigan have adopted energy efficiency targets to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. The adoption of technology by customers can have both positive and negative impacts on sales. Many new technologies use less energy than their older counterparts. On the other hand, new technologies such as electric vehicles can create additional demand for energy. As part of our planning process, we estimate the impacts of changes in customer behavior, government programs, energy efficiency mandates and new technologies, but risks remain.Any of these matters, as well as any regulatory lag to adjust rates as a result of reduced sales from effective conservation measures or the adoption of new technologies, could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any higher costs that are collected through rates could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, natural gas or steam, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.Our revenues could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets.FERC rules related to transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale electricity markets among regulated utilities, non-utility generators, wholesale power marketers and brokers by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale customers, including initiatives designed to encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply. In addition, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, financial laws and regulations impact hedging and trading based on futures contracts and derivatives that are traded on various commodities exchanges, as well as over-the-counter (OTC). Technology changes in the power and fuel industries also have significant impacts on wholesale transactions and related costs. We currently cannot predict the impact of these and other developments or the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand, which are driven by factors beyond our control.Risks Related to Economic and Market VolatilityOur business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets.We rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. We have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities. Successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, under competitive terms and rates. In addition, we rely on committed bank credit agreements as back-up liquidity which allows us to access the low cost commercial paper markets. If our access to any of these markets were limited, or our cost of capital significantly increased, due  31Wisconsin Energy CorporationITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-Kto a rating downgrade, an economic downturn or uncertainty, prevailing market conditions, concerns over foreign economic conditions and/or the ability of foreign governments and central banks to respond to changing economic conditions, changes in tax policy, war or the threat of war, the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries, a negative view of the utility industry, bankruptcy or financial distress at a financial institution or sovereign entity or other factors, our ability to implement our business plan could be limited which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.We are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories.Our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by economic cycles and the competitiveness of the commercial and industrial customers we serve. Any economic downturn or disruption of national or international financial markets could adversely affect the financial condition of our customers and demand for their products. Adverse economic conditions in our service territories and/or decreased demand for products produced in our service area could cause a reduction in demand for electricity and/or natural gas that could result in decreased earnings and cash flow. We would also expect our collections of accounts receivable to be adversely impacted.A downgrade in the credit ratings of WEC or any of its subsidiaries could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or require the posting of collateral.There are a number of factors that impact Wisconsin Energy's and its subsidiaries' credit ratings, including, without limitation, capital structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other requirements for capital. Wisconsin Energy or any of its subsidiaries could experience a downgrade in their ratings if the rating agencies determine that the level of business or financial risk of the industry or Wisconsin Energy and/or its subsidiaries has deteriorated. Changes in rating methodologies by the rating agencies could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. If Wisconsin Energy or its subsidiaries are downgraded by the rating agencies, their borrowing costs could increase, funding sources could decrease and, for any downgrade to below investment grade, collateral requirements may be triggered in several contracts.An increase in natural gas costs could negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations.Wisconsin Electric burns natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in PWGS 1 and PWGS 2, and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants. In many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas. Disruption in the supply of natural gas due to a curtailment in production or distribution can increase the cost of natural gas, as can international market conditions and demand for natural gas. In addition, the availability of shale gas and potential regulations affecting its accessibility may have a material impact on the supply and cost of natural gas. Higher natural gas costs can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of those fuels as well. Additionally, high natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements and could adversely impact our collection of accounts receivable.For Wisconsin customers, Wisconsin Electric bears the risk for the recovery of fuel and purchased power costs within a symmetrical two percent fuel tolerance band compared to the forecast of fuel and purchased power costs established in its rate structure. Our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar recovery of the cost of natural gas, subject to tolerance bands and prudency review.We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our coal-fired facilities.We are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity. Although we generally carry sufficient coal inventory at our generating facilities to mitigate an interruption or decline in supply, there can be no assurance that the inventory will be adequate to fully mitigate all potential reductions in supply. While we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will be able to fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us or that we will be able to take delivery of all the coal volume contracted for. The suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us, or we may experience operational problems or constraints that prevent us from taking delivery. In addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster. Furthermore, demand for coal can impact its availability and cost. If we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to reduce generation at our  32Wisconsin Energy CorporationITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-Kcoal units and replace this lost generation through additional power purchases in the MISO market. There is no guarantee that we would be able to fully recover any increased costs in rates or that recovery would not otherwise be delayed which could adversely affect our cash flows.Our electric generation frequently exceeds our customer load. When this occurs, we generally sell the excess generation into the MISO market. If we are unable to run our lower cost units we may lose the ability to engage in these opportunity sales, which may adversely affect our results of operations.The use of derivative contracts could result in financial losses.We use derivative instruments such as swaps, options, futures and forwards to manage commodity exposures. We could recognize financial losses as a result of volatility in the market value of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. These risks are managed through risk management policies, which might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks associated with these activities. In addition, although the hedging programs of Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas must be approved by the PSCW, derivative contracts entered into for hedging purposes might not offset the underlying exposure being hedged as expected, resulting in financial losses. In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the value of these financial instruments can involve management's judgment or use of estimates. Changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the value of the reported fair value of these contracts.Restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business.The regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes. Increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us. It is uncertain whether retail access might be implemented in Wisconsin.Michigan has adopted retail choice. Under Michigan law, our retail customers may choose an alternative electric supplier to provide power supply service. The law limits customer choice to 10% of our Michigan retail load. The two iron ore mines located in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan are excluded from this cap. When a customer switches to an alternative electric supplier, we continue to provide distribution and customer service functions for the customer.FERC continues to support the existing RTOs that affect the structure of the wholesale market within these RTOs. In connection with its status as a FERC approved RTO, MISO implemented bid-based energy markets that are part of the MISO Energy Markets. The MISO Energy Markets rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the MISO region. MISO then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a Locational Marginal Price (LMP) that reflects the market price for energy. As a participant in the MISO Energy Markets, we are required to follow MISO's instructions when dispatching generating units to support MISO's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system. MISO also implemented an Ancillary Services Market for operating reserves that was simultaneously co-optimized with its existing energy markets.These market designs continue to have the potential to increase the costs of transmission, the costs associated with inefficient generation dispatching, the costs of participation in the market and the costs associated with estimated payment settlements.Poor investment performance of benefit plan holdings and other factors impacting benefit plan costs could unfavorably impact our liquidity and results of operations.We have significant obligations related to pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. Our cost of providing these plans is dependent upon a number of factors including actual plan experience and assumptions concerning the future, such as earnings on plan assets, discount rates, the level of interest rates used to measure the required minimum funding levels of the plans, future government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions to be made to the plans. Plan assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield returns that fall below projected return rates. A decline in the market value of these assets may increase our funding requirements. Changes in interest rates affect plan liabilities - as rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could increase our funding requirements. Changes in demographics, such as an increase in the number of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions, may also increase our funding requirements. Changes made to the plans may also impact  33Wisconsin Energy CorporationITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS - (Cont'd)2014 Form 10-Kcurrent and future pension costs. In addition, it is possible that medical costs for both active and retired employees may increase at a rate that is significantly higher than we currently anticipate. If we are unable to successfully manage our benefit plan assets and medical costs, our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely impacted.Our ability to obtain insurance and the terms of any available insurance coverage could be adversely affected by international, national, state or local events and company-specific events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Our insurance coverage may not provide protection against all significant losses.Our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business, as well as by international, national, state or local events, as well as the financial condition of insurers. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. In addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. Any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position.Risks Related to Our Proposed Acquisition of IntegrysWe may be unable to satisfy the conditions or obtain the approvals required to complete the acquisition of Integrys or such approvals may contain material restrictions or conditions.Completion of the acquisition of Integrys remains subject to the approval of various government agencies. We cannot provide assurance that we will obtain all required consents or approvals, or that the regulatory consents or approvals will not impose conditions on the completion, or require changes to the terms, of the acquisition, including restrictions on the business, operations or financial performance of the combined company. These conditions or changes could also delay or materially and adversely affect the business results and financial condition of the combined company.While the acquisition of Integrys is pending, we are subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions that could materially adversely affect our operations and the future of our business.The Merger Agreement includes restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to the completion of the acquisition of Integrys, generally requiring us to conduct our business in the ordinary course and subjecting us to a variety of specified limitations absent Integrys’ prior written consent. We may find that these and other contractual arrangements in the Merger Agreement may delay or prevent us from or limit our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures, industry developments and future business opportunities that may arise during such period, even if our management thinks they may be advisable. The pendency of the acquisition may also divert management’s attention and our resources from ongoing business and operations. If any of these effects were to occur, it could materially and adversely affect our operations and the future of our business, regardless of whether the acquisition is completed.If completed, the acquisition of Integrys may not achieve its intended results.We entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the acquisition of Integrys would result in various benefits. If the acquisition is completed, achieving the anticipated benefits will be subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether Wisconsin Energy's and Integrys' businesses can be integrated in an efficient and effective manner. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could adversely affect our business, financial results and share price.ITEM 1B