Item 1A Risk Factors and under the heading Cautionary Factors in Item 7 of this report, other matters described under the heading Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 of this report, and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time 
5


to time in our filings with the SEC or otherwise described throughout this document.  We disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements.

 
UTILITY ENERGY SEGMENT

ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS

Our electric utility operations consist of the electric operations of Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault.  Wisconsin Electric, which is the largest electric utility in the State of Wisconsin, generates and distributes electric energy in a territory in southeastern (including the metropolitan Milwaukee area), east central and northern Wisconsin and in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.  Edison Sault generates and distributes electric energy in a territory in the eastern Upper Peninsula of Michigan.  

Effective April 1, 2005, Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault began to participate in the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO) bid-based energy market (MISO Midwest Market) which changed how our generating units are dispatched and how we buy and sell power.  For further information, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.

Electric Sales

See Consolidated Selected Utility Operating Data in Item 6 for certain electric utility operating information by customer class during the period 2001 through 2005.

Wisconsin Electric:   Wisconsin Electric is authorized to provide retail electric service in designated territories in the State of Wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits, certificates of public convenience and necessity or boundary agreements with other utilities, and in certain territories in the State of Michigan pursuant to franchises granted by municipalities.  Wisconsin Electric also sells wholesale electric power within the MISO Midwest Market.

Electric energy sales by Wisconsin Electric to all classes of customers totaled approximately 32.0 million megawatt hours (mwh) during 2005, a 2.6% increase from 2004.  Approximately 0.4 million of megawatt-hour sales during 2005 were to Edison Sault.  Wisconsin Electric had approximately 1,092,400 electric customers at December 31, 2005, an increase of 1.0% since December 31, 2004.

Edison Sault:   Edison Sault is authorized to provide retail electric service in certain territories in the State of Michigan pursuant to franchises granted by municipalities.  Edison Sault also provides wholesale electric service under contract with one rural cooperative.

Electric energy sales by Edison Sault to all classes of customers totaled approximately 0.9 million megawatt hours during both 2005 and 2004.  No significant megawatt-hour sales during 2005 were to Wisconsin Electric.  Edison Sault had approximately 22,900 electric customers at December 31, 2005 and 22,700 electric customers at December 31, 2004.

Electric Sales Growth:   Assuming moderate growth in the economy of our electric utility service territories and normal weather, we presently anticipate total retail and municipal electric kilowatt-hour sales of our utility energy segment to grow at an annual rate of 1.0% to 1.5% over the next five years.  We also anticipate that our annual electric demand will grow at a rate of 2.0% to 3.0% over the next five years. 

Sales To Large Electric Retail Customers:   Wisconsin Electric provides electric utility service to a diversified base of customers in such industries as mining, paper, foundry, food products and machinery production, as well as to large retail chains.  Edison Sault provides electric service to industrial accounts in the paper, crude oil pipeline and limestone quarry industries, as well as to several state and federal government facilities.

Our largest retail electric customers are two iron ore mines located in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.  Wisconsin Electric currently has special negotiated power-sales contracts with these mines that expire in December 2007.  The combined electric energy sales to the two mines accounted for 7.1% and 7.4% of our total electric utility energy sales during 2005 and 2004, respectively.  The mines have notified us that they are disputing certain billings and they have placed the disputed amounts in escrow.  In September 2005, the mines notified us that they have filed for
6


 formal arbitration related to this contract.  We have notified the mines that we believe that they have failed to comply with certain notification provisions related to annual production as specified within the contract.  For further information, see Legal Matters under Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 of this report.

Sales to Wholesale Customers:   During 2005, Wisconsin Electric sold wholesale electric energy to three municipally owned systems, two rural cooperatives and one municipal joint action agency located in the states of Wisconsin, Michigan and Illinois.  Wholesale electric energy sales by Wisconsin Electric were also made to 34 other public utilities and power marketers throughout the region under rates approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  Edison Sault sold wholesale electric energy to one rural cooperative during 2005.  Wholesale sales accounted for approximately 8.8% of our total electric energy sales and 4.9% of total electric operating revenues during 2005, compared with 9.1% of total electric energy sales and 4.7% of total electric operating revenues during 2004.

Electric System Reliability Matters:   Electric energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year.  As a summer peaking utility, we reached our 2005 electric peak demand obligation of 6,344 megawatts on August 9, 2005 and our all-time electric peak demand obligation of 6,376 megawatts on August 21, 2003.  The summer period is the most relevant period for capacity planning purposes for us as a result of cooling load.  In 2005 and prior, Wisconsin Electric was a member of the Mid-America Interconnected Network, Inc. (MAIN) reliability council, whose guidelines required a minimum 14% planning reserve margin for the short-term (up to one year ahead).  Effective January 1, 2006, Wisconsin Electric became a member of ReliabilityFirst Corporation, a successor council encompassing most of the East Central Area Reliability Council and Mid Atlantic Area Council and a portion of MAIN.  ReliabilityFirst Corporation has not yet est
ablished guidelines in this area but members are expected to adhere to the guidelines of their predecessor councils until new guidelines are established.  Because Wisconsin Electric must also adhere to Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW) guidelines requiring an 18% planning reserve margin it is expected to be in compliance with ReliabilityFirst Corporation guidelines when established.  The Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC) has not established guidelines in this area.

We had adequate capacity to meet all of our firm electric load obligations during 2005 and expect to have adequate capacity to meet all of our firm obligations during 2006.  For additional information, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.  For additional information regarding our generation facilities, see Utility Energy Segment in Item 2.

Competition

Prior to 2003, the nation's electric utility industry had been following a trend towards restructuring and increased competition.  However, given electric reliability problems experienced in the east coast in the summer of 2003 and in the State of California in 2001 and 2002, which had previously restructured its electric industry framework, and given the current status of restructuring initiatives in regulatory jurisdictions where we primarily do business, we do not expect to be affected by a significant change in electric regulation in the next five years.  The PSCW has been and remains focused on electric reliability infrastructure issues for the State of Wisconsin.  The State of Michigan implemented electric retail access in 2002, and the FERC continues to support the voluntary formation of large Regional Transmission Organizations (RTO) such as MISO.  For additional information, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.

Electric Supply

The table below indicates our sources of electric energy supply as a percentage of sales, for the three years ended December 31, 2005, as well as an estimate for 2006:

7






 

Estimate
 

Actual










 

2006 
 

2005
 

2004
 

2003











Coal

53.9%     
 

57.6%     
 

60.8%     
 

58.6%    


Nuclear

23.4%     
 

20.0%     
 

23.7%     
 

24.6%    


Hydroelectric

1.7%     


1.6%     


1.7%     


1.6%    


Natural gas (a)

4.3%     
 

2.9%     
 

0.2%     
 

0.6%    


Oil and Other 

0.1%     
 

- %     
 

- %     
 

0.1%    











  Net Generation

83.4%     
 

82.1%     
 

86.4%     
 

85.5%    


Purchased Power 

16.6%     
 

17.9%     
 

13.6%     
 

14.5%    











  Total

100.0%     
 

100.0%     
 

100.0%     
 

100.0%    


































(a)

Includes the first natural gas-fired unit at Port Washington Generating Station (PWGS) which was placed into service in July 2005.





Our Power the Future plan, which is discussed further in Item 7, Power the Future, includes the addition of 2,320 megawatts of generating capacity over the next five years.  Our Power the Future plan includes two 545-megawatt natural gas units at an existing site in Port Washington, Wisconsin.  The first natural gas unit was placed into service in July 2005.  The second natural gas unit is expected to be operational in 2008.  We have begun construction of two 615-megawatt coal units (of which we will own approximately a 515-megawatt share of each unit) at an existing site in Oak Creek, Wisconsin.  We anticipate that the first coal unit will be placed in service in 2009, followed by the second unit in 2010.

We believe that our Power the Future plan will allow us to better manage the mix of fuels used to generate electricity for our customers.  We believe that it is in the best interests of our customers to provide a diverse fuel mix that is expected to maintain a stable, reliable and affordable energy supply in our service territory.

Our net generation, including PWGS Unit 1, totaled 28.2 million megawatt hours during 2005 compared with 29.2 million megawatt hours during 2004 and 28.0 million megawatt hours during 2003.  When compared with the past year, net generation as a percent of our total electric energy supply is expected to increase in 2006 due to the availability of the PWGS Unit 1 for the entire year and one fewer scheduled nuclear outage in 2006 versus 2005.

Our average fuel and purchased power costs per megawatt hour by fuel type for the years ended December 31 are shown below.


 
 

2005
 

2004
 

2003


















Coal
 

$14.74  
 

$14.18  
 

$12.94  


Nuclear
 

$5.06  
 

$4.68  
 

$4.79  


Natural Gas - Combined Cycle 
 

$84.77  
 

  -      
 

  -      


Natural Gas - Peaking Units
 

$125.67  
 

$95.16  
 

$93.42  


Purchased Power
 

$53.59  
 

$36.17  
 

$37.96  





 
We use natural gas to fuel our peaking units that are designed to run for short durations.  The PWGS natural gas-fired units that are part of the Power the Future plan are combined cycle facilities that are designed to run for longer durations and at a lower operating cost as compared to a peaking unit.  The first unit at PWGS was placed into service in July 2005.  Wisconsin Electric leases Unit 1 at PWGS from We Power.

Historically, the fuel costs for coal and nuclear generation are relatively stable as the fuel costs are under long-term contracts.  In 2005, we entered into new coal contracts to replace certain contracts that expired during 2005.  Coal and associated transportation services have seen greater volatility in pricing than typically experienced in these markets.  Based on current market conditions, we expect coal and transportation costs to increase more significantly than our most recent historical trend.  

The costs for natural gas and purchased power, which is primarily natural gas-fired, are more volatile and have experienced significant increases since 2002.  Natural gas costs have increased significantly because the supply of natural gas in recent years has not keep pace with the demand for natural gas and due to the impacts of hurricanes on
8


 offshore Gulf of Mexico natural gas production.  Beginning in late 2003 and concurrent with the approval of the PSCW, we established hedging programs to help manage our natural gas price risk.  This hedging program is generally implemented on an 18 month forward-looking basis.  Proceeds related to the natural gas hedging program are reflected in the 2005 and 2004 average costs of natural gas and purchased power shown above.  

Wisconsin Electric's installed capacity by fuel type for the years ended December 31, is shown below.





2005


2004


2003










Dependable capability in megawatts (a)










Coal
 

3,334  
 

3,334  
 

3,560  


Nuclear
 

1,036  
 

1,036  
 

1,036  


Natural Gas/Oil (b)
 

1,163  
 

1,163  
 

1,157  


Hydro
 

57  
 

57  
 

57  










Total


5,590  


5,590  


5,810  































(a)  

Dependable capability is the net power output under average operating conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given month in a given year.  The values were established by test and may change slightly from year to year.

 
 


(b)  

Approximately 67% of the Natural Gas/Oil units are dual fueled.  The dual fuel facilities generally burn oil only if natural gas is not available due to constraints on the natural gas pipeline and/or at the local gas distribution company that delivers gas to the plants.  Total does not include the 545-megawatts of natural gas-fired leased generation from We Power.  





 
Coal-Fired Generation

Coal Supply:   Wisconsin Electric diversifies the coal supply for its power plants by purchasing coal from mines in northern and central Appalachia as well as from various western mines.  During 2006, 99% of Wisconsin Electric's projected coal requirements of 13 million tons will be under contracts which are not tied to 2006 market pricing fluctuations.  Wisconsin Electric does not anticipate any problem in procuring its remaining 2006 coal requirements.  Our coal-fired generation consists of six operating plants with a dependable capability of approximately 3,334 megawatts.

Following is a summary of the annual tonnage amounts for Wisconsin Electric's principal long-term coal contracts by the month and year in which the contracts expire.



Contract
Expiration Date
 


Annual Tonnage (a)





 
 
 


        Dec. 2006
 

6,388,000            


        Dec. 2008
 

3,178,000            


        Dec. 2009
 

19,000            


        Dec. 2010
 

25,000            






(a) Table includes coal for Edgewater 5.  Wisconsin Electric has a 25% interest in Edgewater 5, which is operated by Alliant Energy Corp, an unaffiliated utility.  


Coal Deliveries:   Approximately 82% of Wisconsin Electric's 2006 coal requirements are expected to be delivered by Wisconsin Electric-owned or leased unit trains.  The unit trains will transport coal for the Oak Creek, Pleasant Prairie and Edgewater Power Plants from Wyoming mines.  Coal from Central Appalachia and Colorado mines is also transported via rail to Lake Erie or Lake Michigan transfer docks and delivered to the Valley and Milwaukee County Power Plants.  Montana and Wyoming coal for Presque Isle Power Plant is transported via rail to Superior, Wisconsin, placed in dock storage and reloaded into lake vessels for plant delivery.  Central Appalachia and Colorado coal bound for Presque Isle Power Plant is shipped via rail to Lake Erie and Lake Michigan (Chicago) coal transfer docks, respectively, for lake vessel delivery to the plant.

9




Environmental Matters:   For information regarding emission restrictions, especially as they relate to coal-fired generating facilities, see Environmental Compliance.

 
Nuclear Generation

Point Beach Nuclear Plant:   Wisconsin Electric owns two 518-megawatt electric generating units at Point Beach Nuclear Plant (Point Beach) in Two Rivers, Wisconsin.  Nuclear Management Company, LLC (NMC) and Wisconsin Electric filed an application with the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) in February 2004 to renew the operating licenses for both of Wisconsin Electric's nuclear reactors for an additional 20 years.  In December 2005, we received approval for license renewal from the NRC.  The new operating licenses for Point Beach will expire in October 2030 for Unit 1 and in March 2033 for Unit 2.  For additional information concerning Point Beach, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 and Note I -- Nuclear Operations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Nuclear Management Company:   NMC, owned by our affiliate WEC Nuclear Corporation and the affiliates of two other unaffiliated investor-owned utilities in the region, operates Point Beach.  NMC currently operates six nuclear generating units at four sites in the states of Wisconsin, Minnesota and Michigan with a total combined generating capacity of approximately 3,500 megawatts.  Wisconsin Electric continues to own Point Beach and retains exclusive rights to the energy generated by the plant as well as financial responsibility for the safe operation, maintenance and decommissioning of Point Beach.  For further information, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.

Nuclear Fuel Supply:   Wisconsin Electric purchases uranium concentrates (Yellowcake) and contracts for its conversion, enrichment and fabrication.  There have been numerous events in the nuclear fuel supply market that have affected the price of uranium concentrates, conversion service and enrichment services.  The price of the fuel commodities has risen steadily since the fourth quarter of 2003 and we anticipate that the price will continue to rise due to current demand exceeding current supply.  NMC is continually monitoring the nuclear fuel commodities market to assess current and future commodity pricing and adjusting purchasing strategies to address changes in the market conditions.  Wisconsin Electric maintains title to the nuclear fuel until fabricated fuel assemblies are delivered to Point Beach; it is then sold to and leased back from the Wisconsin Electric Fuel Trust.  For further information concerning this nuclear fuel lease, see Note K -- Long-Term Debt
 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Uranium Requirements:   Wisconsin Electric requires approximately 400,000 to 450,000 pounds of Yellowcake to refuel a generating unit at Point Beach.  Point Beach has staggered fuel cycles that are expected to average approximately 18 months in duration.  The supply of Yellowcake for these refuelings is currently provided through one long-term contract, which supplies 100% of the annual requirements through 2007, with an option to extend the current contract through 2009.  Contract negotiations through the NMC are currently underway that would supply approximately 25% of the Point Beach requirements from 2010 to 2016.

Conversion:   Wisconsin Electric has conversion services supply from a share of an NMC fleet contract for conversion services and four spot purchase contracts to meet 100% of its conversion requirements for 2006.  In 2005, the NMC conversion services contract was amended to supply approximately 20% of the Point Beach requirements through 2010.  We are currently negotiating additional contracts for conversion services to meet approximately 50% of the Point Beach requirements through 2011.

Enrichment:   Wisconsin Electric effectively has one long-term contract and another contract through NMC that provide for 100% of the required enrichment services for the Point Beach reactors through the year 2006 and approximately 38% of the enrichment services requirements through 2009.  Contract negotiations for additional enrichment services supply are currently underway that would supply the remainder of the Point Beach requirements through 2009.

Fabrication:   Fabrication of fuel assemblies from enriched uranium for Point Beach is covered under a contract with Westinghouse Electric Company, LLC.  The current contract for fabrication services is through 2010 for Unit 1 and 2013 for Unit 2.

10



Used Nuclear Fuel Storage & Disposal:   For information concerning used fuel storage and disposal issues, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.

Nuclear Decommissioning:   Wisconsin Electric provides for costs associated with the eventual decommissioning of Point Beach through the use of external trust funds.  Payments to these funds, together with investment results, brought the balance in the funds at December 31, 2005 to approximately $782.1 million.  For additional information regarding decommissioning, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 and Note I -- Nuclear Operations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

Nuclear Plant Insurance:   For information regarding nuclear plant insurance, see Note I -- Nuclear Operations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

 
Hydroelectric Generation

Wisconsin Electric:   Wisconsin Electric's hydroelectric generating system consists of thirteen operating plants with a total installed capacity of approximately 88 megawatts and a dependable capability of approximately 57 megawatts.  Of these thirteen plants, twelve are licensed by the FERC.  The thirteenth plant, with an installed generating capacity of approximately 2 megawatts, does not require a license.  Twelve licensed plants, representing a total of 86 megawatts of installed capacity, have long-term licenses from the FERC.  

Edison Sault:   Edison Sault's primary source of generation is its 30-megawatt hydroelectric generating plant located on the St. Marys River in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan.  The water for this facility is leased under a contract with the United States Army Corps of Engineers with tenure to December 31, 2050.  However, the Secretary of the Army has the right to terminate the contract after December 2020.  Edison Sault pays for all water taken from the St. Marys River at predetermined rates with a minimum annual payment of $0.1 million.  The total flow of water taken out of Lake Superior, which in effect is the flow of water in the St. Marys River, is under the direction and control of the International Joint Commission, created by the Boundary Water Treaty of 1909 between the United States and Great Britain, now represented by Canada.

Hydroelectric generation is also purchased by Edison Sault under contract from the United States Army Corps of Engineers' hydroelectric generating plant located within the Soo Locks complex on the St. Marys River in Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan.  This 17-megawatt contract has a tenure to November 1, 2040 and cannot be terminated by the United States government prior to November 1, 2030.

 
Natural Gas-Fired Generation

Our natural gas-fired generation consists of four operating plants with a dependable capability of approximately 888 megawatts.  In addition, in July 2005, we added 545-megawatts of leased natural gas-fired generation when the first unit at PWGS became operational.  The second 545-megawatt unit at PWGS is expected to come on line in 2008.  

We purchase natural gas for these plants on the spot market from gas marketers, utilities and producers and we arrange for transportation of the natural gas to our plants.  We have firm and interruptible transportation, balancing and storage agreements intended to support the plants' variable usage.  

The PSCW has approved a program that allows us to hedge up to 75% of our estimated gas usage for electric generation in order to help manage our natural gas price risk.  The costs of this program are included in our fuel and purchased power costs.

 
Oil-Fired Generation

Fuel oil is used for the combustion turbines at the Point Beach and Germantown Power Plants units 1-4.  It is also used for boiler ignition and flame stabilization at the Presque Isle Power Plant, as backup for ignition at the Pleasant Prairie Power Plant and as a backup fuel for the natural gas-fired turbines which have interruptible transportation.  Our oil-fired generation has a dependable capability of approximately 275 megawatts.  The natural gas facilities
11


 generally burn oil only if natural gas is not available due to constraints on the natural gas pipeline and/or at the local gas distribution company that delivers gas to the plants.  Fuel oil requirements are purchased under agreements with suppliers.

 
Purchase Power Commitments

We enter into short and long-term purchase power commitments to meet a portion of our anticipated electric energy supply needs.  The following table identifies our purchase power commitments over the next five years:




Year
 

Megawatts Under 
Purchase Power Commitments
 






 
 
 
 


2006


1,195



2007
 

1,153
 


2008
 

   703
 


2009
 

   585
 


2010
 

   585
 





 
The majority of these purchase power commitments are tolling arrangements whereby we are responsible for the procurement, delivery and cost of natural gas fuel related to specific units identified in the contracts.  The energy costs for the balance of the commitments are tied to the costs of natural gas.

 
Electric Transmission and Energy Markets

American Transmission Company:   Effective January 1, 2001, we transferred all of our electric utility transmission assets to American Transmission Company LLC (ATC) in exchange for ownership interests in this new company.  Joining ATC is consistent with the FERC's Order No. 2000, designed to foster competition, efficiency and reliability in the electric industry.

ATC is owned by the utilities that contributed facilities or capital in accordance with 1999 Wisconsin Act 9.  As of December 31, 2005, we owned approximately 33.5% of ATC.  We anticipate that our ownership will be reduced to approximately 30% by December 31, 2006 as other owners contribute transmission assets to ATC.

ATC's sole business is to provide reliable, economic electric transmission service to all customers in a fair and equitable manner.  Specifically, ATC plans, constructs, operates, maintains and expands transmission facilities it owns to provide for adequate and reliable transmission of electric power.  ATC is expected to provide comparable service to all customers, including Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault, and to support effective competition in energy markets without favoring any market participant.  ATC is regulated by the FERC for all rate terms and conditions of service and is a transmission-owning member of MISO.  As of February 1, 2002, operational control of ATC's transmission system was transferred to MISO, and Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault are non-transmission owning members and customers of MISO.

Wisconsin Electric has contracted to provide, at cost, services required by ATC.  Services include transmission line and substation operation and maintenance, engineering, project, real estate, environmental, supply chain, control center and miscellaneous services.  The annual cost of the services provided by Wisconsin Electric was approximately $20 million, $21 million, and $31 million during 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively, and is expected to continue to decline in future years as ATC provides more of these services itself.

MISO:   In connection with its status as a FERC approved RTO, MISO developed a bid-based energy market, the MISO Midwest Market, which was implemented on April 1, 2005.  

For further information on MISO and the MISO Midwest Market, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.

12



 
Renewable Electric Energy

Our Power the Future plan includes a commitment to significantly increase the amount of renewable energy generation we utilize beyond that required by Wisconsin law.  Our target is to provide 5% of our retail electric sales in Wisconsin from renewable energy resources by the year 2011.  In addition, Wisconsin Electric has an "Energy For Tomorrow®" renewable energy program to provide our customers the opportunity to purchase energy from renewable resources.

Wisconsin's public benefits legislation requires that for 2006, retail energy providers supply 1.2% of a three year average of their Wisconsin retail electric sales from renewable energy.  The required minimum percentage increases to 2.2% by the year 2011.  For more information about public benefits see Regulation -- Utility Energy Segment below.  

In June 2005, we purchased the development rights to two wind farm projects from Navitas Energy Inc.  We plan to develop the wind sites and construct wind turbines with a combined generating capability between 130 to 200-megawatts at a cost in the range of $250 to $320 million.  We plan to file the necessary regulatory and environmental applications in 2006.  We expect the turbines to be placed in service between 2007 and 2008 dependent upon the availability of wind turbines and the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals.

 
GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS

Our gas utility operations consist of Wisconsin Gas and the gas operations of Wisconsin Electric.  Both companies are authorized to provide retail gas distribution service in designated territories in the State of Wisconsin, as established by indeterminate permits, certificates of public convenience and necessity, or boundary agreements with other utilities.  The two companies also transport customer-owned gas.  Wisconsin Gas, the largest natural gas distribution utility in Wisconsin, operates throughout the state including the City of Milwaukee.  Wisconsin Electric's gas utility operates in three distinct service areas: west and south of the City of Milwaukee, the Appleton area and areas within Iron and Vilas Counties, Wisconsin.

 
Gas Deliveries

Our gas utility business is highly seasonal due to the heating requirements of residential and commercial customers.  Annual gas sales are also impacted by the variability of winter temperatures.

See Consolidated Selected Utility Operating Data in Item 6 for selected gas utility operating information by customer class during the period 2001 through 2005.

Total gas therms delivered, including customer-owned transported gas, were approximately 2,168.8 million therms during 2005, a 4.9% increase compared with 2004.  At December 31, 2005, we were transporting gas for approximately 1,488 customers who purchased gas directly from other suppliers.  Transported gas accounted for approximately 41% of the total volumes delivered during 2005, 37% during 2004, and 37% during 2003.  We had approximately 1,029,700 gas customers at December 31, 2005, an increase of approximately 1.5% since December 31, 2004.

Our maximum daily send-out during 2005 was 1,558,320 dekatherms on January 17, 2005.  A dekatherm is equivalent to ten therms or one million British thermal units.

Sales to Large Gas Customers:   We provide gas utility service to a diversified base of industrial customers who are largely within our electric service territory.  Major industries served include the paper, food products and fabricated metal products industries.  Fuel used for Wisconsin Electric's electric energy supply represents our largest transportation customer.

Gas Deliveries Growth:   We currently forecast total therm deliveries of natural gas to grow at an annual rate of approximately 1.6% for the combined gas operations of Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas over the five-year period ending December 31, 2010.  This forecast reflects a current year normalized sales level and assumes
13


 moderate growth in the economy of our gas utility service territories, normal weather, and incremental Power the Future demand.

 
Competition

Competition in varying degrees exists between natural gas and other forms of energy available to consumers.  Many of our large commercial and industrial customers are dual-fuel customers that are equipped to switch between natural gas and alternate fuels.  We are allowed to offer lower-priced gas sales and transportation services to dual fuel customers.  Under gas transportation agreements, customers purchase gas directly from gas marketers and arrange with interstate pipelines and us to have the gas transported to their facilities where it is used.  We earn substantially the same margin (difference between revenue and cost of gas) whether we sell and transport gas to customers or only transport their gas.

Our future ability to maintain our present share of the industrial dual-fuel market (the market that is equipped to use gas or other fuels) depends on our success and the success of third-party gas marketers in obtaining long-term and short-term supplies of natural gas at competitive prices compared to other sources and in arranging or facilitating competitively-priced transportation service for those customers that desire to buy their own gas supplies.

Federal and state regulators continue to implement policies to bring more competition to the gas industry.  For information concerning proceedings by the PSCW to consider how its regulation of gas distribution utilities should change to reflect the changing competitive environment in the gas industry, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.  While the gas utility distribution function is expected to remain a highly regulated, monopoly function, the sales of the natural gas commodity and related services are expected to remain subject to competition from third parties.  It remains uncertain if and when the current economic disincentives for small customers to choose an alternative gas commodity supplier may be removed such that we begin to face competition for the sale of gas to our smaller firm customers.

 
Gas Supply, Pipeline Capacity and Storage

We have been able to meet our contractual obligations with both our suppliers and our customers despite periods of severe cold and unseasonably warm weather.

Pipeline Capacity and Storage:   The interstate pipelines serving Wisconsin originate in three major gas producing areas of North America: the Oklahoma and Texas basins, the Gulf of Mexico and western Canada.  We have contracted for long-term firm capacity from each of these areas.  This strategy reflects management's belief that overall supply security is enhanced by geographic diversification of the supply portfolios and that Canada represents an important long-term source of reliable, competitively-priced gas.

Because of the daily and seasonal variations in gas usage in Wisconsin, we have also contracted for substantial underground storage capacity, primarily in Michigan.  Storage capacity enables us to manage significant changes in daily demand and to optimize our overall gas supply and capacity costs.  We generally inject gas into storage during the spring and summer months and withdraw it in the winter months.  As a result, we can contract for less long-line pipeline capacity than would otherwise be necessary, and can purchase gas on a more uniform daily basis from suppliers year-round.  Each of these capabilities enables us to reduce our overall costs.

We also maintain high deliverability storage in the Southeast production areas, as well as in our market area.  This storage capacity is designed to deliver gas when other supplies cannot be delivered during extremely cold weather in the producing areas, which can reduce long-line supply.

We hold firm daily transportation and storage capacity entitlements from pipelines and other service providers under long-term contracts.

Term Gas Supply:   We have contracts for firm supplies with terms in excess of 30 days with suppliers for gas acquired in the Joliet, Illinois market hub and in the three producing areas discussed above.  The pricing of the term contracts is based upon first of the month indices.  Combined with our storage capability, management believes that the volume of gas under contract is sufficient to meet our forecasted firm peak day demand.

Secondary Market Transactions:   Capacity release is a mechanism by which pipeline long-line and storage capacity and gas supplies under contract can be resold in the secondary market.  Local distribution companies, like Wisconsin
14


 Gas and the gas operations of Wisconsin Electric, must contract for capacity and supply sufficient to meet the firm peak day demand of their customers.  Peak or near peak demand days generally occur only a few times each year.  Capacity release facilitates higher utilization of contracted capacity and supply during those times when the full contracted capacity and supply are not needed by the utility, helping to mitigate the fixed costs associated with maintaining peak levels of capacity and gas supply.  Through pre-arranged agreements and day-to-day electronic bulletin board postings, interested parties can purchase this excess capacity and supply.  The proceeds from these transactions are passed through to ratepayers, subject to the Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas gas cost incentive mechanisms pursuant to which the companies have an opportunity to share in the cost savings.  See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Utility Rates and Regulatory Matters in Item 7 for 
information on the gas cost recovery mechanism.  During 2005, we continued our active participation in the capacity release market.

Spot Market Gas Supply:   We expect to continue to make gas purchases in the 30-day spot market as price and other circumstances dictate.  We have supply relationships with a number of sellers from whom we purchase spot gas.

Hedging Gas Supply Prices:   We have PSCW approval to hedge (i) up to 45% of planned flowing gas supply using NYMEX based natural gas options, (ii) up to 15% of planned flowing gas supply using NYMEX based natural gas future contracts and (iii) up to 35% of planned storage withdrawals using NYMEX based natural gas options.  Those approvals allow both companies to pass 100% of the hedging costs (premiums and brokerage fees) and proceeds (gains and losses) through their respective purchase gas adjustment mechanisms.  Hedge targets (volumes) are provided annually to the PSCW as part of each company's five-year gas supply plan filing.

To the extent that opportunities develop and our physical supply operating plans will support them, we also have PSCW approval to utilize NYMEX based natural gas derivatives to capture favorable forward market price differentials.  That approval provides for 100% of the related proceeds to accrue to the companies' gas cost recovery (incentive) mechanisms.

Guardian Pipeline:   Wisconsin Energy has a one-third interest in Guardian Pipeline L.L.C (Guardian).  Neither Wisconsin Electric nor Wisconsin Gas has an ownership interest in Guardian.  Two unaffiliated companies also have one-third interests.  Guardian owns an interstate natural gas pipeline from the Joliet, Illinois market hub to southeastern Wisconsin that is designed to serve the growing demand for natural gas in Wisconsin and Northern Illinois.  Guardian pipeline began commercial operation in early December 2002.  Currently, Guardian has firm transmission service agreements to transport 98% of its 750,000 dekatherms per day pipeline design capacity.  We have committed to purchase 650,000 dekatherms (approximately 87% of the pipeline's total capacity) per day of capacity on the pipeline over a long-term contract that expires in December 2012. 

 
OTHER UTILITY OPERATIONS

Steam Utility Operations:   Wisconsin Electric's steam utility generates, distributes and sells steam supplied by its Valley and Milwaukee County Power Plants.  Wisconsin Electric operates a district steam system in downtown Milwaukee and the near south side of Milwaukee.  Steam is supplied to this system from Wisconsin Electric's Valley Power Plant, a coal-fired cogeneration facility.  Wisconsin Electric also operates the steam production and distribution facilities of the Milwaukee County Power Plant located on the Milwaukee County Grounds in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin.

Annual sales of steam fluctuate from year to year based upon system growth and variations in weather conditions.  During 2005, the steam utility had $23.4 million of operating revenues from the sale of 2,908 million pounds of steam compared with $22.0 million of operating revenues from the sale of 2,869 million pounds of steam during 2004.  As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, steam was used by approximately 460 customers for processing, space heating, domestic hot water and humidification.

Water Utility Operations:   To leverage off of operational similarities with its natural gas business, Wisconsin Gas entered the water utility business in November 1998.  As of December 31, 2005, the water utility served approximately 2,800 water customers in the suburban Milwaukee area compared with approximately 2,660 customers at December 31, 2004.  Wisconsin Gas also provides contract services to local municipalities and businesses within its service territory for water system repair and maintenance.  During 2005, the water utility had $2.3 million of operating revenues compared with $1.9 million of operating revenues during 2004.

15




 
UTILITY RATE MATTERS

See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Utility Rates and Regulatory Matters in Item 7.

 
NON-UTILITY ENERGY SEGMENT

Our non-utility energy segment is involved in a variety of businesses including the design and construction of new generating capacity under our Power the Future strategy and investment in other energy-related entities and assets.

During 2000, we performed a comprehensive review of our existing portfolio of businesses and began implementing a strategy of divesting many of our non-utility energy segment businesses, especially those outside of the Midwest region.  As we implement our Power the Future strategy, we expect to grow the non-utility energy segment within the State of Wisconsin through our subsidiary We Power.

Since 2000, we have sold our interest in SkyGen Energy Holdings, LLC, our interest in FieldTech, Inc., our interest in Blythe Energy, LLC, our interest in Wisvest-Connecticut LLC, a 500-megawatt natural gas power island, our interest in a 308-megawatt natural-gas fired peaking power facility, and our interests in Kaztex Energy Management, Inc. and Blackhawk Energy Services, LLC.

 
We Power

We Power, through wholly owned subsidiaries, plans to design and construct 2,320 megawatts of new generating capacity in the State of Wisconsin proposed as part of our Power the Future plan.  In November 2005, two unaffiliated entities purchased an ownership interest of approximately 17% or 200 megawatts of capacity in the two coal units to be constructed in Oak Creek, Wisconsin.  We Power will own the remaining 2,120 megawatts of generating capacity and lease this capacity to Wisconsin Electric.  At December 31, 2005, We Power had $354.5 million of construction work in progress.  For further information about our Power the Future strategy, see Environmental Compliance below as well as Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Power the Future in Item 7.

 
Wisvest Corporation

Wisvest Corporation (Wisvest) was originally formed to develop, own and operate electric generating facilities and to invest in other energy-related entities.  As a result of the change in corporate strategy to focus on our Power the Future strategy, Wisvest has discontinued its development activity.  For the year ended December 31, 2005, Wisvest had $9.5 million of operating revenues from continuing operations compared with $7.8 million of operating revenues from continuing operations during 2004.  We have divested substantially all of Wisvest's assets.  As of December 31, 2005, Wisvest operations and investments included Wisvest Thermal Energy Services, which provides chilled water services to the Milwaukee Regional Medical Center.  In addition, we have an interest in a cogeneration facility in the State of Maine, through an equity investment in Androscoggin Energy LLC.  We wrote down our investment in Androscoggin to zero in 2003.  In November 2004, Androscoggin filed fo
r Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, which is currently in process. 

 
OTHER NON-UTILITY OPERATIONS

Minergy Corp.

Minergy is engaged in the development and marketing of proprietary technologies designed to convert high volume industrial and municipal wastes into renewable energy and value-added products.  Minergy's strategic focus is to license that technology and sell equipment to domestic and foreign operators or industrial/municipal users through its patented GlassPack® process and Glass Furnace technology as a component of larger scale waste processing solutions.  We believe this licensing strategy will allow Minergy to recognize the economic benefits of its technology with limited capital requirements.  In August 2005, we announced our intent to sell Minergy Neenah. 
16


 The primary assets of Minergy Neenah are the Glass Aggregate plant and related operating contracts.  See below for further information regarding the operations of Minergy Neenah.  Minergy's primary operations and investments at December 31, 2005 include: 

Minergy Neenah, LLC:   In 1998, Minergy Neenah opened a facility in Neenah, Wisconsin that recycles paper sludge from area paper mills using our patented Glass Aggregate technology into renewable energy and glass aggregate.  The Glass Aggregate technology is a vitrification process that converts the organic fraction of a waste material into heat and also melts the inorganic fraction into an inert glass aggregate material.  The plant also provides substantial environmental and economic benefits to the area by providing an alternative to landfilling paper sludge.  For additional information on Minergy Neenah see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7 and Note D -- Asset Sales, Divestitures and Discontinued Operations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

GlassPack, LLC:    Minergy has developed and patented our GlassPack® technology, which is a smaller, less expensive and environmentally cleaner version of the Neenah facility.  The GlassPack® technology is suited for smaller wastewater treatment and industrial plants, while the Glass Furnace technology is appropriate for various sediment processing, including river bed sediment.  The first commercial GlassPack® facility is being constructed in Zion, Illinois by the North Shore Sanitary District with commercial operation expected in the third quarter of 2006.  Minergy is also pursuing other domestic and foreign GlassPack® installations through equipment sales or licensing agreements.

 
Wispark LLC

Wispark develops and invests in real estate.  From September 2000 through December 31, 2005, Wispark has reduced its overall holdings from $373.1 million to $103.9 million.  Wispark will maintain its remaining portfolio for investment and potential sale.  During the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, Wispark had $18.6 million of consolidated operating revenues compared with $17.8 million during 2004.

Wispark has developed several business parks primarily in southeastern Wisconsin.  Wispark's flagship development, the 1,600-acre LakeView Corporate Park located near Kenosha, Wisconsin is home to approximately 80 companies located in more than 9.2 million square feet of buildings that have been developed on property in excess of 930 acres.  Many out-of-state firms have located in this park, creating a significant number of new jobs and growth in electricity and natural gas revenues.

In December 2004, Wispark entered into a joint venture with a major industrial development company whereby Wispark contributed land in its LakeView and GrandView Corporate parks valued at approximately $40.0 million to the joint venture in return for approximately $20.8 million in cash, future development fees and a 36% interest in the joint venture, which includes land contributed by our joint venture partner.

 
Other Non-Utility Subsidiaries

Other non-utility subsidiaries primarily include:

Wisconsin Energy Capital Corporation:   Wisconsin Energy Capital Corporation engages in investing and financing activities.  Activities include advances to affiliated companies and investments in financial instruments and in partnerships developing low- and moderate-income housing projects.

WEC Nuclear Corporation:   WEC Nuclear Corporation currently has a 33.3% ownership interest in NMC.  Formed during the first quarter of 1999, NMC provides services to Wisconsin Electric in connection with Point Beach Nuclear Plant as well as to other unaffiliated companies with nuclear generating facilities.  For additional information about NMC, see Utility Energy Segment above and Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.

17



 
REGULATION

Wisconsin Energy Corporation

Wisconsin Energy was an exempt holding company by order of the SEC under Section 3(a)(1) of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended (PUHCA 1935), and, accordingly, was exempt from that law's provisions other than with respect to certain acquisitions of securities of a public utility.  In August 2005, President Bush signed into law the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Policy Act).  The Energy Policy Act repealed PUHCA 1935and enacted the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (PUHCA 2005), transferring jurisdiction over holding companies from the SEC to the FERC.  Wisconsin Energy will be required to notify the FERC of its status as a holding company and to seek from FERC the exempt status similar to that held under PUHCA 1935.

Non-Utility Asset Cap:   In October 1999, the Wisconsin State Legislature passed amendments to the non-utility asset cap provisions of Wisconsin's public utility holding company law as part of the 1999-2001 biennial state budget, 1999 Wisconsin Act 9.  As a result, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting diversification into non-utility activities.  Under the amended public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates.  However, among other items, the amended law exempts energy-related assets and assets, like Minergy's, used for providing environmental engineering services and for processing waste materials, from being counted against the asset cap provided that they are employed in qualifying businesses.  As a result of these exemptions, our non-utility assets are significantly below the non-utility as
set cap as of December 31, 2005.

Under our Power the Future plan, the cost of constructing new generating facilities to be owned by We Power is expected to qualify as energy projects under the amended non-utility asset cap and therefore would be entirely exempt from the definition of "non-utility" property for this purpose.  The remaining cost of our Power the Future plan represents investments in new and existing energy distribution system assets and upgrades to existing generation assets and has no impact on the amount of non-utility assets under the non-utility asset cap test.

 
Utility Energy Segment

Wisconsin Electric was an exempt holding company under Section 3(a)(1) of PUHCA 1935 and Rule 2 thereunder and, accordingly, was exempt from that law's provisions other than with respect to certain acquisitions of securities of a public utility.  Due to the Energy Policy Act's enactment of PUHCA 2005 as noted above, Wisconsin Electric will also be required to notify the FERC of its status as a holding company and to seek from FERC the exempt status similar to that held under PUHCA 1935.  For information on how rates are set for our regulated entities see Utility Rates and Regulatory Matters in Item 7.

Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault are subject to the Energy Policy Act and the corresponding regulations developed by certain federal agencies.  The Energy Policy Act, among other things, repeals PUHCA 1935 making electric utility industry consolidation more possible, authorizes the FERC to review proposed mergers and the acquisition of generation facilities, changes the FERC regulatory scheme applicable to qualifying co-generation facilities and modifies certain other aspects of energy regulations and Federal tax policies applicable to Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault.  Additionally, the Energy Policy Act created an Electric Reliability Organization to be overseen by the FERC, which will establish mandatory electric reliability standards, replacing the current voluntary standards developed by the North American Electric Reliability Council, and will have the authority to levy monetary sanctions for failure to comply with the new standards.

Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas are subject to the regulation of the PSCW as to retail electric, gas, steam and water rates in the State of Wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters.  Wisconsin Electric is subject to regulation of the PSCW as to certain levels of short-term debt obligations.  Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault are both subject to the regulation of the MPSC as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the State of Michigan as noted above except as to issuance of securities, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates.  Wisconsin Electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by the FERC.  Wisconsin Electric and Edison Sault are subject to regulation of the FERC
18


 with respect to wholesale power service and accounting.  Edison Sault is subject to regulation of the FERC with respect to the issuance of certain securities.

The following table compares the source of our utility energy segment operating revenues by regulatory jurisdiction for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2005.


 

2005
 

2004
 

2003








 

Amount
 

Percent
 

Amount
 

Percent
 

Amount
 

Percent














 

(Millions of Dollars)


Wisconsin
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


     Electric Utility - Retail

$2,049.7  
 

54.0%  
 

$1,830.6  
 

54.2%  
 

$1,762.8  
 

54.0%  


     Gas Utility - Retail

1,417.5  
 

37.4%  
 

1,252.4  
 

37.1%  
 

1,226.1  
 

37.6%  


     Other Utility - Retail

25.8  
 

0.7%  
 

24.0  
 

0.7%  
 

24.2  
 

0.7%  















          Total

3,493.0  


92.1%  


3,107.0  


92.0%  


3,013.1  


92.3%  


Michigan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


     Electric Utility - Retail

184.1  
 

4.9%  
 

170.2  
 

5.0%  
 

158.8  
 

4.9%  


FERC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


     Electric Utility - Wholesale

115.9  
 

3.0%  
 

98.2  
 

3.0%  
 

92.0  
 

2.8%  















Total Utility Operating Revenues

$3,793.0  
 

100.0%  
 

$3,375.4  
 

100.0%  
 

$3,263.9  
 

100.0%  












































 
For information concerning the implementation of full electric retail competition in the State of Michigan effective January 1, 2002, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.

Operation and construction relating to Wisconsin Electric's Point Beach Nuclear Plant are subject to regulation by the NRC.  Total flow of water to Edison Sault's hydroelectric generating plant is under the control of the International Joint Commission, created by the Boundary Water Treaty of 1909 between the United States and Great Britain, now represented by Canada.  The operations of Wisconsin Electric, Wisconsin Gas and Edison Sault are also subject to regulations, where applicable, of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources and the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.

Public Benefits:   Public benefits legislation was included in 1999 Wisconsin Act 9.  The law created new funding which is adjusted annually to be collected by all electric utilities and remitted to the Wisconsin Department of Administration (DOA).  The law also required utilities to continue to collect the funds at existing levels for low-income, conservation and environmental research and development programs and to transfer the funds for these programs to the DOA.  We implemented this change in October 2000.  The utilities' traditional role of providing these programs has shifted to the DOA, which administers the funds for a statewide public benefits program.  As part of its order authorizing the construction of the two coal units under our Power the Future strategy, the PSCW required us to implement an energy efficiency program for the years 2005-2008 in addition to the DOA administered programs.

This law also requires that for 2006, retail energy providers supply 1.2% of a three year average of their Wisconsin retail electric sales from renewable energy.  The required minimum percentage increases to 2.2% by the year 2011.

19



 
Non-Utility Energy Segment

We Power is a holding company subsidiary of Wisconsin Energy and was formed to design, construct, own and lease the new generating capacity in our Power the Future strategy.  We Power owns the interests in the companies constructing this new generating capacity (collectively, the We Power project companies).  When complete, these facilities will be leased on a long-term basis to Wisconsin Electric.  We Power has received determinations from the FERC that upon the transfer of the facilities by lease to Wisconsin Electric, the We Power project companies will not be deemed public utilities under the Federal Power Act and thus will not be subject to FERC's jurisdiction.  

Subsequently, President Bush signed into law the Energy Policy Act.  The Energy Policy Act and corresponding rules developed by FERC thereunder require us to seek FERC authorization to allow Wisconsin Electric to lease from We Power the three Power the Future units that are currently being constructed by We Power.

In addition, for a short period prior to the transfer of each generation unit to Wisconsin Electric, We Power will be engaged in the sale of test power, a FERC jurisdictional transaction.  The We Power project companies received approval from the FERC for the sale of test power to Wisconsin Electric from Port Washington Unit 1, and for the transfer of any FERC jurisdictional facilities at Port Washington to Wisconsin Electric and/or ATC.  In July 2005, Port Washington Unit 1 became operational and the sale of test power ceased.  Under Wisconsin law, We Power is not a "public utility."  Environmental permits necessary for operating the facilities are the responsibility of the operating entity, Wisconsin Electric.

 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Environmental Expenditures

Expenditures for environmental compliance and remediation issues are included in anticipated capital expenditures described in Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.  For discussion of additional environmental issues, see Environmental Matters in Item 3.  For further information concerning air quality standards and rulemaking initiated by the EPA, including estimated costs of compliance, see Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources in Item 7.

Utility Energy Segment:   Compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection requirements resulted in capital expenditures by Wisconsin Electric of approximately $153 million in 2005 compared with $78 million in 2004.  Expenditures incurred during 2005 primarily included costs associated with the installation of pollution abatement facilities at Wisconsin Electric's power plants.  These expenditures at Wisconsin Electric are expected to approximate $83 million during 2006, reflecting nitrogen oxide (NOx), sulfur dioxide (SO2) and other pollution control equipment needed to comply with various rules promulgated by the EPA.

Operation, maintenance and depreciation expenses for Wisconsin Electric's fly ash removal equipment and other environmental protection systems are estimated to have been approximately $40 million during 2005 and $52 million during 2004.

 
Solid Waste Landfills

We provide for the disposal of non-ash related solid wastes and hazardous wastes through licensed independent contractors, but federal statutory provisions impose joint and several liability on the generators of waste for certain cleanup costs.  Currently there are no active cases.

 
Coal-Ash Landfills

Some early designed and constructed coal-ash landfills may allow the release of low levels of constituents resulting in the need for various levels of remediation.  Where Wisconsin Electric has become aware of these conditions, efforts have been expended to define the nature and extent of any release, and work has been performed to address these conditions.  For additional information, see Note S -- Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  Sites currently undergoing remediation and/or monitoring include:

20



Lakeside Property:   During 2001, Wisconsin Electric completed an investigation of property that was used primarily for coal storage, fuel oil transport and coal ash disposal in support of the former Lakeside Power Plant in St. Francis, Wisconsin.  Excavation and utilization of residual coal at the site, slope stabilization and cover construction have been completed.  Currently, discussion is taking place with neighbors and other interested parties to determine the ultimate use of the remediated property and some other adjacent land also owned by Wisconsin Electric.  Future costs for remediation of this site are estimated to be approximately $1.0 million.

Oak Creek North Landfill:   Groundwater impairments at this landfill, located in the City of Oak Creek, Wisconsin, prompted Wisconsin Electric to investigate, during 1998, the condition of the existing cover and other conditions at the site.  Surface water drainage improvements were implemented at this site during 1999 and 2000, which are expected to eliminate ash contact with water and remove unwanted ponding of water.  Future costs for remediation are estimated to be approximately $1.5 million and involve reconfiguration of the site and construction of a new cap, which will be accomplished as a part of site upgrades needed to facilitate construction of the new power plants.

 
Manufactured Gas Plant Sites

We are reviewing and addressing environmental conditions at a number of former manufactured gas plant sites.  See Note S -- Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

 
Air Quality

See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Environmental Matters in Item 7 for additional information concerning Air Quality.  

 
Clean Water Act

See Factors Affecting Results, Liquidity and Capital Resources -- Environmental Matters in Item 7 for additional information concerning the Clean Water Act.  

 
OTHER

Research and Development:   Wisconsin Electric had immaterial research and development expenditures in the last three years, primarily for improvement of service and abatement of air and water pollution by the electric utility operations.  Research and development activities include work done by employees, consultants and contractors, plus sponsorship of research by industry associations.

Employees:   At December 31, 2005, we had the following number of employees:




Total
Employees


Represented
Employees






 
 
 
 


Utility Energy Segment
 
 
 


   Wisconsin Electric

4,653      
 

3,207      


   Wisconsin Gas

619      
 

481      


   Edison Sault

66      
 

45      







      Total

5,338      
 

3,733      


Non-Utility Energy Segment

50      
 

-         


Other

57      
 

-         







      Total Employees

5,445      
 

3,733      





















  21




 
 
The employees represented under labor agreements were with the following bargaining units as of December 31, 2005.


 

Number of Employees
 

Expiration Date of Current Labor Agreement






 
 
 
 


Wisconsin Electric
 
 
 


  Local 2150 of International     Brotherhood of Electrical Workers


2,381      
 


August 15, 2007  


  Local 317 of International Union of     Operating Engineers


430      
 


September 30, 2006  


  Local 12005 of United Steel Workers     of America (a)


175      
 


November 3, 2008  


  Local 510 of International Brotherhood     of Electrical Workers


164      
 


April 30, 2007  


  Local 7-0111 of Paper, Allied-    Industrial Chemical & Energy     Workers International Union (a)



57      
 



November 3, 2008  







Total Wisconsin Electric

3,207      














Wisconsin Gas
 
 
 


  Local 2150 of International     Brotherhood of Electrical Workers


109      
 


August 15, 2007  


  Local 7-0018 of Paper, Allied-    Industrial Chemical & Energy     Workers International Union (a)



179      
 



May 31, 2007  


  Local 7-0018-1 of Paper, Allied-    Industrial Chemical & Energy     Workers International Union (a)



185      
 



November 30, 2006  


  Local 7-0018-2 of Paper, Allied-    Industrial Chemical & Energy     Workers International Union (a)



8      
 



February 29, 2008  







Total Wisconsin Gas

481      














Edison Sault
 
 
 


  Local 13547 of United Steel Workers     of America


45      



October 22, 2007  







Total Edison Sault

45      









Total Employees

3,733      


















 
 
 
 


(a) Effective January 1, 2006, these bargaining units became a part of the Local 2006.   These former locals are now individual bargaining units of Local 2006.  We will continue to honor our bargaining agreements with each of these units as negotiated.






  22







ITEM 1A.

RISK FACTORS




Our business is significantly impacted by governmental regulation.

We are subject to significant state, local and federal governmental regulation.  We are subject to the regulation of the PSCW as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in the State of Wisconsin, standards of service, issuance of securities, short-term debt obligations, construction of certain new facilities, transactions with affiliates, billing practices and various other matters.  In addition, we are subject to the regulation of the MPSC as to the various matters associated with retail electric service in the State of Michigan, except as to issuance of securities, construction of certain new facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of transactions with affiliates.  Further, Wisconsin Electric's hydroelectric facilities are regulated by the FERC, and the FERC also regulates our wholesale power service and accounting practices.  Our significant level of regulation imposes restrictions on our operations and causes us to incur substantial compliance costs.

We estimate that within our regulated energy segment, approximately 87% of our electric revenues are regulated by the PSCW, 8% are regulated by the MPSC and the balance of our electric revenues are regulated by the FERC.  All of our natural gas revenues are regulated by the PSCW.

Our ability to obtain rate adjustments in the future is dependent upon regulatory action and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain rate adjustments in the future that will allow us to maintain our current authorized rates of return. 

Factors beyond our control could adversely affect project costs and completion of the natural gas-fired and coal-fired generating units we are constructing as part of our Power the Future strategy.

Under our Power the Future strategy, we expect to meet a significant portion of our future generation needs through the construction of two 545-megawatt natural gas-fired generating units at our Port Washington Generating Station and two 615-megawatt coal-fired generating units to be located adjacent to our Oak Creek Power Plant.  The first of these four units was placed into service in July 2005.

Large construction projects of this type are subject to usual construction risks over which we will have limited or no control and which might adversely affect project costs and completion time.  These risks include, but are not limited to, shortages of, the inability to obtain or the cost of labor or materials, the inability of the general contractor or subcontractors to perform under their contracts, strikes, adverse weather conditions, the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner and changes in applicable law or regulations, adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions, laws and regulations by the permitting agencies, governmental actions and events in the global economy.  

If final costs for the construction of the Port Washington units exceed the fixed costs allowed in the PSCW order, absent a finding by the PSCW of extraordinary circumstances such as force majeure conditions, this excess will not adjust the amount of the lease payments recovered from Wisconsin Electric.  If final costs of the Oak Creek expansion are within 5% of the targeted cost, and the additional costs are deemed prudent by the PSCW, the final lease payments for the Oak Creek expansion recovered from Wisconsin Electric would be adjusted to reflect the actual construction costs.  Costs above the 5% cap would not be included in lease payments or recovered from customers absent a finding by the PSCW of extraordinary circumstances such as force majeure conditions.

As required by the Energy Policy Act, FERC developed new rules to implement certain provisions of the Energy Policy Act.  Pursuant to these new rules, Wisconsin Electric is required to seek FERC authorization to lease from We Power the three Power the Future units that are currently being constructed by We Power.  We are unable to determine at this time the magnitude of this new regulatory requirement on the Power the Future plan, if any.

We face significant costs of compliance with existing and future environmental regulations. 

We are subject to extensive environmental regulations relating to, among other things, air emissions such as carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, small particulates and mercury, water discharges and management of hazardous and solid waste.  We incur significant expenditures in complying with these environmental requirements, including expenditures for the installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at all of our facilities.  

23



Existing environmental regulations may be revised or new laws or regulations may be adopted which could result in significant additional expenditures and operating restrictions on our facilities.  In the event we are not able to recover all of our environmental expenditures from our customers in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected.

In addition, we may also be responsible for liabilities associated with the environmental condition of the facilities that we have previously owned and operated, regardless of whether the liabilities arose before, during or after the time we owned or operated the facilities.  The incurrence of a material environmental liability could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

Ownership and operation of nuclear generating units involve inherent risks that may result in substantial costs and liabilities.

We own two 518-megawatt nuclear electric generating units at the Point Beach site.  The units are operated by NMC, a joint venture of Wisconsin Energy and affiliates of other unaffiliated utilities.  During 2005, our nuclear generating units provided 20% of our net electric energy supply.  Our nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health and financial risks, including:  handling of nuclear materials, on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel and the current lack of a long-term solution for disposal of materials; mechanical or structural problems; lapses in maintenance procedures; human errors in the operation of the reactors or safety systems; the threat of possible terrorist attacks; limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available; the continued ability of NMC to effectively manage and operate our nuclear facilities; and uncertainties regarding our ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning the units.  While we have no reason to anticipate a ser
ious nuclear incident at our units, if an incident were to occur, it could result in substantial costs to us that may significantly exceed the amount of our insurance coverage and reserves. 

The NRC has broad authority to impose licensing and safety related requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities.  In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, until compliance is achieved.  Further, in the event of a major incident at a nuclear facility anywhere in the world, the NRC could limit or prohibit the operation or licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.  

As a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the NRC and the industry have been strengthening security at nuclear power plants.  Increased security measures and other safety requirements could require us to make substantial capital expenditures at our nuclear generating units.  

Energy sales are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather conditions from year-to-year.

Our electric and gas utility businesses are generally seasonal businesses.  Demand for electricity is greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating.  In addition, demand for natural gas peaks in the winter heating season.  As a result, our overall results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, we have historically had lower revenues and net income when weather conditions are milder.  Our rates in Wisconsin are set by the PSCW based on estimated temperatures which approximate 20-year averages.  Below normal temperatures during the summer cooling season, and to a lesser extent, above normal temperatures during the winter heating season will negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our electric utility business.  In addition, above normal temperatures during the winter heating season negatively impact the results of operations and cash flows of our gas utility business.

Higher natural gas costs may negatively impact our electric and gas utility operations.

Significant increases in the cost of natural gas affect our electric and gas utility operations.  Natural gas costs have increased significantly, both because the supply of natural gas in recent years has not kept pace with the demand for natural gas, which has grown throughout the United States as a result of increased reliance on natural gas-fired electric generating facilities, and due to the impacts of hurricanes on offshore Gulf of Mexico natural gas production.  We expect that demand for natural gas will remain high into the foreseeable future and that significant price relief will not occur until additional natural gas reserves are developed.

Wisconsin Electric's electric operations burn natural gas in several of its peaking power plants and in the leased Port Washington Generation Station Unit 1 and as a supplemental fuel at several coal-fired plants, and in many instances the cost of purchased power is tied to the cost of natural gas.  In addition, higher natural gas costs also can have the effect of increasing demand for other sources of fuel thereby increasing the costs of these fuels as well.  

24



In addition, higher natural gas costs increase our working capital requirements.  As a result of gas cost recovery mechanisms, our gas distribution business receives dollar for dollar pass through of the cost of natural gas.  However, increased natural gas costs increase the risk that customers will switch to alternative sources of fuel or reduce their usage, which could reduce future gas margins.  We have experienced reduced usage of natural gas by our residential customers in 2005 and expect this to continue during the 2006 winter heating season.  In addition, higher natural gas costs combined with slower economic conditions also exposes us to greater risks of accounts receivable write-offs as more customers are unable to pay their bills.

We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of coal, which could limit our ability to operate our facilities.

We are dependent on coal for much of our electric generating capacity.  While we have coal supply and transportation contracts in place, there can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to supply coal to us.  The suppliers under these agreements may experience financial or operational problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations to us.  In addition, suppliers under these agreements may not be required to supply coal to us under certain circumstances, such as in the event of a natural disaster.  If we are unable to obtain our coal requirements under our coal supply and transportation contracts, we may be required to purchase coal at higher prices, or we may be forced to obtain additional megawatt hour purchases through other potentially higher cost generating resources in the MISO Midwest Market.  Higher costs to obtain coal increase our working capital requirements.

Our financial performance may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully operate our facilities.

Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our electric generating and gas distribution facilities.  Operation of these facilities involves many risks, including: operator error and breakdown or failure of equipment processes; fuel supply interruptions; labor disputes; operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory requirements; or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or other similar occurrences.  Unplanned generation outages can result in additional maintenance expenses as well as incremental replacement power costs.  

We are exposed to risks related to general economic conditions in our service territories.

Our electric and gas utility businesses are impacted by the economic cycles of the customers we serve.  In the event regional economic conditions decline, we may experience reduced demand for electricity or natural gas which could result in decreased earnings and cash flow.  In addition, regional economic conditions also impact our collections of accounts receivable.

Our business is dependent on our ability to successfully access capital markets.

We rely on access to short-term and long-term capital markets to support our capital expenditures and other capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements.  We and our subsidiaries have historically secured funds from a variety of sources, including the issuance of short-term and long-term debt securities, preferred stock and common stock.  Successful implementation of our long-term business strategies is dependent upon the ability of us and our subsidiaries to access the capital markets under competitive terms and rates.  If our or our subsidiaries' access to the capital markets were limited due to a ratings downgrade, prevailing market conditions or other factors, our results of operations and financial condition could be significantly adversely affected.

We are a holding company and are subject to restrictions on our ability to pay dividends.

Wisconsin Energy is a holding company and has no significant operations of its own.  Accordingly, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay dividends on our common stock is dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us, whether through dividends or other payments.  The ability of our subsidiaries to pay amounts to us will depend on the earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries and on regulatory limitations.  Our subsidiaries have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of their outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them.  In addition, each of Wisconsin Energy, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Gas bank back-up credit facilities have specified total funded debt to capitalization ratios that must be maintained.

25



Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act limit our ability to invest in non-utility activities and could deter takeover attempts by a potential purchaser of our common stock that would be willing to pay a premium for our common stock.

Under the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act, we remain subject to certain restrictions that have the potential of limiting our diversification into non-utility activities.  Under the public utility holding company law, the sum of certain assets of all non-utility affiliates in a holding company system may not exceed 25% of the assets of all public utility affiliates.  

In addition, the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act precludes the acquisition of 10% or more of the voting shares of a holding company of a Wisconsin public utility unless the PSCW has first determined that the acquisition is in the best interests of utility customers, stockholders and the public.  This provision and other requirements of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act may delay or reduce the likelihood of a sale or change of control of Wisconsin Energy.  As a result, you may be deprived of opportunities to sell some or all of your shares of our common stock at prices that represent a premium over market prices.

Repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 and enactment of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 may subject us to increased regulation.

Wisconsin Energy and Wisconsin Electric were exempt holding companies under PUHCA 1935, and, accordingly, were exempt from that law's provisions other than with respect to certain acquisitions of securities of a public utility.  However, the Energy Policy Act repealed PUHCA 1935 and enacted PUHCA 2005, transferring jurisdiction over holding companies from the SEC to the FERC.  Each of Wisconsin Energy and Wisconsin Electric will be required to notify the FERC of its status as a holding company and to seek from FERC the exempt status similar to that held under PUHCA 1935.  If Wisconsin Energy and Wisconsin Electric are unable to obtain exempt status from FERC, both companies may become subject to increased regulation as holding companies by FERC.  

Restructuring in the regulated energy industry could have a negative impact on our business.

The regulated energy industry continues to experience significant structural changes.  Increased competition in the retail and wholesale markets, which may result from restructuring efforts, could have a significant adverse financial impact on us.  The timeline for restructuring and retail access continues to be stretched out, and it is uncertain when retail access will happen in Wisconsin; however, Michigan has adopted retail choice which potentially affects our Michigan operations.  Under retail access legislation, customers are permitted to choose their own electric generation supplier.  All Michigan electric customers were able to choose their electric generation supplier beginning in January 2002.  Although competition and customer switching to alternative suppliers in our service territories in Michigan has been limited, the additional competitive pressures resulting from retail access could lead to a loss of customers and our incurring stranded costs.

The FERC continues to support the existing RTOs which affect the structure of the wholesale market within those RTOs.  In connection with its status as a FERC approved RTO, MISO implemented the MISO Midwest Market on April 1, 2005.  The MISO Midwest Market rules require that all market participants submit day-ahead and/or real-time bids and offers for energy at locations across the MISO region.  MISO then calculates the most efficient solution for all of the bids and offers made into the market that day and establishes a locational marginal price (LMP) which reflects the market price for energy.  As a participant in the new MISO Midwest Market, we are required to follow MISO's instructions when dispatching generating units to support MISO's responsibility for maintaining stability of the transmission system.

Additionally, the MISO Midwest Market subjects us to additional costs primarily associated with constraints in the transmission system.  MISO implemented the LMP system, a market-based platform for valuing transmission congestion.  The LMP system includes the ability to mitigate or eliminate congestion charges through the use of financial transmission rights (FTRs).  FTRs are allocated to market participants by MISO.  We are presently operating under an FTR allocation that will be in effect through May 31, 2006.  To date, our unhedged congestion charges have not been material.  However, there can be no assurance that we will be granted an adequate level of FTRs in the future to avoid material unhedged congestion charges.

26




 
 
ITEM 1B