Item 1A.   Risk
Factors.

 

We wish to caution you
that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to
be materially different from those indicated by forward-looking statements that
we make from time to time in filings with the SEC, news releases, reports,
proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications, as
well as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by
representatives of the Company. These risks and uncertainties include the risk
factors described below. The cautionary statements below discuss important
factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results
and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. The Company does not
undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.

 

Economic
Conditions that Impact Consumer Spending Could Materially Impact Our Business

 

The
global economic crisis adversely impacted our business and financial results in
fiscal year 2009 and the
ongoing economic uncertainty continues to negatively affect consumer confidence
and discretionary spending. Our
results of operations may be materially impacted by changes in overall economic
conditions that impact consumer confidence and spending, including
discretionary spending. There can be no assurance that various governmental
activities to stabilize the markets and stimulate the economy will restore
consumer confidence or change spending habits. Future economic conditions
affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business
conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit,
interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs, the impact of natural
disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer
spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced
competitors.

 

Our
Growth Depends on New Store Openings

 

Our continued growth
depends to some degree on our ability to open new stores in existing and new
areas and to operate those stores successfully. Successful implementation of
this strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense
competition from other retailers for such sites. There can be no assurance that
we will continue to grow through new store openings. We may not be able to
timely open new stores or operate them successfully. Also, we may not be able
to successfully hire and train new team members or integrate those team members
into the programs and policies of the Company. We may not be able to adapt our
distribution, management information and other operating systems to adequately
supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the
stores in a successful and profitable manner.

 

New
Stores May Negatively Impact Our Results

 

There can be no assurance
that our new store openings will be successful or result in greater sales and
profitability for the Company. New stores build their sales volumes and refine
their merchandise selection over time and, as a result, generally have lower
gross margins and higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales than our
more mature stores. There may be a negative impact on our results from a lower
contribution of new stores, along with the impact of related pre-opening and
relocation costs.

 

Increased
Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Profitability

 

Our competitors include
but are not limited to local, regional, national and international
supermarkets, natural food stores, warehouse membership clubs, small specialty
stores and restaurants. Their businesses compete with us for products,
customers and locations. In addition, some are expanding more aggressively in
marketing a range of natural and organic foods. Some of these potential
competitors may have been in business longer or may have greater financial or
marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to
sourcing, promoting and selling their products. As 

 

16












Table
of Contents

 

competition in certain
areas intensifies, our results of operations may be negatively impacted through
a loss of sales, reduction in margin from competitive price changes, and/or
greater operating costs such as marketing.

 

We May Experience
Significant Fluctuations in Our Identical Store Sales

 

Our results of operations
may be materially impacted by fluctuations in our identical store sales. Our
identical store sales could fluctuate or be lower than our historical average
for many reasons including new and acquired stores entering into the identical
store base, the opening of new stores that cannibalize store sales in existing
areas, general economic conditions, increased competition, price changes in
response to competitive factors, possible supply shortages, and cycling against
any year of above-average sales results.

 

We May Experience
Significant Fluctuations in Our Quarterly Operating Results

 

Our quarterly operating
results could fluctuate for many reasons, including losses from new stores,
variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to
competitive factors and a potential lack of customer acceptance, foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations, increases in store operating costs,
including commodity costs, that are either wholly or partially beyond our control,
possible supply shortages, general economic conditions, health care costs,
legal costs, insurance costs, extreme weather-related disruptions, including
hurricanes and earthquakes, and potential uninsured casualty losses or other
losses. In addition, our quarterly operating results and quarter-to-quarter
comparisons have been and may be impacted by the timing of new store openings,
construction and pre-opening expenses, the timing of acquisitions, store
closures and relocations, seasonality, and the range of operating results
generated from newly opened stores. Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results
of operations have been and may be materially impacted by the timing of new
store openings.

 

Our Stock
Price Is Volatile

 

From September 29,
2008 to September 27, 2009, the quoted market price per share of our
common stock ranged from $7.04 to $30.13. The market price of our common stock
could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to various market
factors and events. These market factors and events include variations in our
sales and earnings results and any failure to meet market expectations; changes
in ratings and earnings estimates by securities analysts; publicity regarding
us, our competitors, or the natural products industry generally; new statutes
or regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing statutes or
regulations affecting the natural products industry specifically; and sales of
substantial amounts of common stock in the public market or the perception that
such sales could occur and other factors. In addition, the stock market in
recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often
have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These
market fluctuations also may adversely affect the market price of our common
stock. Our cash flow from the exercise of team member stock options may be
adversely affected in the future by fluctuations in the market price of our
common stock.

 

We May Be Subject to Product
Liability Claims and Reduced Brand Value if People Are Harmed By the Products
We Sell

 

There is increasing
governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food safety. We believe
that many customers choose to shop our stores because of their interest in
health, nutrition and food safety. We believe that our customers hold us to a
higher food safety standard than other supermarkets. Even isolated business
incidents can erode consumer trust, particularly if the incidents receive
considerable publicity or result in litigation, which can significantly reduce
brand value. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us
could result in product liability claims, the settlement or outcome of which
might have a material adverse effect on our sales and operations.

 

Changes
in the Availability of Quality Natural and Organic Products Could Impact Our
Business

 

There is no assurance
that quality natural and organic products will be available to meet our future
needs. If other supermarkets significantly increase their natural and organic
product offerings or if new laws require the reformulation of certain products
to meet tougher standards, the supply of these products may be constrained. Any
significant disruption in the supply of quality natural and organic products
could have a material impact on our overall sales and cost of goods sold.

 

Future
Economic Factors Could Cause Impairment of Goodwill

 

Our total assets included
goodwill totaling approximately $658.3 million at September 27, 2009.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually at the beginning of the fourth
fiscal quarter or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. We allocate
goodwill to one reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing. Our impairment
reviews require extensive use of accounting judgment and financial estimates.
Application of alternative assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing
goodwill for impairment at a different organization level, could produce
significantly different results. We may be required to recognize impairments of
goodwill based on future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in the
Company’s stock price and market capitalization, unfavorable changes in
valuations of comparable companies, or unfavorable changes in estimated future
discounted cash flows of the Company’s reporting unit. Impairment of goodwill
could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results of
operations and capitalization.

 

17












Table
of Contents

 

Future Events Could Result in
Impairment of Our Long-Lived Assets

 

Our total assets included
long-lived assets totaling approximately $1.9 billion at September 27,
2009. Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. Our impairment evaluations require use of financial estimates of
future cash flows. Application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly
different results. We may be required to recognize impairments of long-lived
assets based on future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in
estimated future undiscounted cash flows of an asset group. Long-lived asset
impairments could result in material charges that would adversely affect our
results of operations and capitalization.

 

We Have
Significant Indebtedness

 

We have significant debt
and may incur additional debt in the future. A significant portion of our
future cash flow from operating activities may be dedicated to the payment of
interest and the repayment of principal on our indebtedness. We may not be able
to refinance our debt in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Our
indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working
capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other
purposes in the future. There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our
debt service obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to
meet our debt service obligations, we may be required to take measures such as
seeking additional financing in the debt or equity markets, refinancing or
restructuring all of a portion of our indebtedness, selling selected assets or reducing
or delaying planned capital or operating expenditures. If we fail to comply
with our debt covenants we will be in default, in which case there can be no
assurance that we would be able to cure the default, receive waivers from our
lenders, amend the loan agreements or refinance the debt.

 

We Have Significant Lease
Obligations

 

The majority of our
stores, distribution centers, bakehouses and administrative facilities are
leased, with expiration dates ranging from one to 35 years. We are subject to
risks associated with our current and future real estate leases. Our costs
could increase because of changes in the real estate markets and supply or
demand for real estate sites. We generally cannot cancel our leases, so if we
decide to close a location, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our
obligations under the applicable lease including paying the base rent for the
remaining lease term. As each lease expires, we may fail to negotiate
renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or at all. As of September 27,
2009, we had 29 leased properties that are not being utilized in current
operations with expiration dates ranging from three to 15 years

 

Self-Insurance
Plan Claims Could Materially Impact Our Results

 

The Company uses a
combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential
liabilities for workers’ compensation, general liability, property insurance,
director and officers’ liability insurance, vehicle liability and team member
health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained
by the Company are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims
experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial
assumptions. Our results could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses
related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ from these
assumptions and historical trends.

 

Perishable Foods Product Losses Could Materially
Impact Our Results

 

We
believe our stores more heavily emphasize perishable products than other
supermarket stores. Perishable products accounted for approximately 66% of
total sales at Whole Foods Market locations in fiscal year 2009. The Company’s
emphasis on perishable products may result in significant product inventory
losses in the event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other
catastrophic occurrences.

 

Legal Proceedings Could
Materially Impact Our Results

 

From time to time, we are
party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and
employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property, acquisitions, and
other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Our results could
be materially impacted by the decisions and expenses related to pending or
future proceedings.

 

The Loss
of Key Management Could Negatively Affect Our Business

 

We are dependent upon a
number of key management and other team members. If we were to lose the
services of a significant number of key team members within a short period of
time, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not
maintain key person insurance on any team member. Our continued success also is
dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified team members to meet
our future growth needs. We face intense competition for qualified team
members, many of whom are subject to offers from competing employers. We may
not be able to attract and retain necessary team members to operate our
business.

 

A
Widespread Health Epidemic  Could
Materially Impact Our Business

 

The Company’s business
could be severely impacted by a widespread regional, national or global health
epidemic. Our stores are a place where customers come together, interact and
learn while at the same time discovering the many joys of eating and 

 

18












Table
of Contents

 

sharing food. A
widespread health epidemic may cause customers to avoid public gathering places
or otherwise change their shopping behaviors. Additionally, a widespread health
epidemic could also adversely impact our business by disrupting production and
delivery of products to our stores and by impacting our ability to
appropriately staff our stores.

 

Unions May Attempt
to Organize Our Team Members

 

From time to time, unions
have attempted to organize all or part of our team member base at certain
stores and non-retail facilities. Responding to such organization attempts is
distracting to management and team members and may have a negative financial
impact on a store, facility or the Company as a whole.

 

Unfavorable Changes in Government
Regulation Could Harm Our Business

 

The Company is subject to
various international, federal, state and local laws, regulations and
administrative practices affecting our business, and we must comply with
provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, food labeling, equal
employment, minimum wages, and licensing for the sale of food and, in some
stores, alcoholic beverages. Our new store openings could be delayed or
prevented or our existing stores could be impacted by difficulties or failures
in our ability to obtain or maintain required approvals or licenses. Changes in
existing laws or implementation of new laws, regulations and practices (e.g., health
care reform and/or card check legislation) could have a significant impact on
our business.

 

The USDA’s Organic Rule facilitates
interstate commerce and the marketing of organically produced food and provides
assurance to our customers that such products meet consistent, uniform
standards. Compliance with this rule could pose a significant burden on
some of our suppliers, which may cause a disruption in some of our product
offerings.

 

We cannot predict the
nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, or
determine what effect either additional government regulations or
administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and
local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could,
however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards,
the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated,
additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain
products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any
or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.

 

Our Results Are Subject to the
Risks of Doing Business in Other Countries

 

Though small as a
percentage of our total sales, the Company’s international operations are
subject to certain risks of conducting business abroad, including fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in regulatory requirements, and
changes or uncertainties in the economic, social and political conditions in
the Company’s geographic areas, among other things.

 

We May Not Be Able to
Adequately Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights

 

We rely on a combination
of trademark, trade secret and copyright law and internal procedures and
nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. There can be no
assurance that our intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in
the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition,
the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products may be produced or
sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the
laws of the United States. Failure to protect our proprietary information could
have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
financial condition.

 

Changes
in Accounting Standards Could Materially Impact Our Results

 

Generally accepted
accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation
guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as
accounting for insurance and self-insurance, inventories, goodwill and
intangible assets, derivatives, store closures, leases, income taxes and
share-based payments, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments.
Changes in these rules or their interpretation could significantly change
or add significant volatility to our reported earnings without a comparable
underlying change in cash flow from operations.

 

Effective Tax Rate Changes and
Results of Examinations by Taxing Authorities Could Materially Impact Our
Results

 

Our future effective tax
rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix being lower than
historical results in states or countries where we have lower statutory
rates and higher than historical results in states or countries where we
have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax
assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof.
In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal
Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other state and local taxing authorities. Our
results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related
to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing
authorities.

 

19











Table
of Contents

 

Disruptions in Our Information Systems Could Harm
Our Ability to Run Our Business

 

We rely extensively on information systems for point-of-sale processing
in our stores, supply chain, financial reporting, human resources and various
other processes and transactions. Our information systems are subject to damage
or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures,
computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction
processing or other systems that could result in the compromise of confidential
customer data, catastrophic events, and usage errors by our team members. If
our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to
make significant investments to fix or replace them, suffer interruptions in
our operations, face costly litigation, and our reputation with our customers
may be harmed. Any material interruption in our computer operations may have a
material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.

 

Failure of Our Internal Control over
Financial Reporting Could Materially Impact Our Business and Results

 

The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal
control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only
reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system
are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that
there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered
relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal
control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal
control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our
financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and
could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our
common stock. The Company’s management concluded that its internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of September 27, 2009. See “Item 9A.
Controls and Procedures — Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting.”

 

Item 1B