.    Risk Factors.Business and Operating RisksOur growth depends on increasing sales in comparable stores and on new store openings, and our failure to achieve these goals could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.Our continued growth depends on our ability to increase sales in our comparable stores and open new stores. Our operating results may be materially impacted by fluctuations in our comparable store sales. Our comparable store sales growth could be lower than our historical average for many reasons including the impact of new and acquired stores entering into the comparable store base, the opening of new stores that cannibalize store sales in existing areas, general economic conditions, increased competition, price changes in response to competitive factors, possible supply shortages, and cycling against any year of above-average sales results.Our growth strategy includes opening new stores in existing and new areas and operating those stores successfully. Successful implementation of this strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face competition from other retailers for such sites. There can be no assurance that we will continue to grow through new store openings. We may not be able to open new stores timely or operate them successfully. Also, we may not be able to successfully hire and train new team members or integrate those team members into the programs and policies of the Company. We may not be able to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating systems to adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner.10Table of ContentsA failure to maintain the privacy and security of customer-related and business information could damage our reputation and business.A compromise of our security systems or those of our business associates that results in our customers’, team members’ or suppliers’ information being obtained by unauthorized persons or a breach of information security laws and regulations could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, team members and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. In addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to remediation, including changes in the information security systems, and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online business.Disruptions in our information systems could harm our ability to run our business.We rely extensively on information systems for point-of-sale processing in our stores, supply chain, financial reporting, human resources and various other processes and transactions. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems that could result in the compromise of confidential customer data, catastrophic events, and usage errors by our team members. If our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, suffer interruptions in our operations, and face costly litigation, and our reputation with our customers may be harmed. Any material interruption in our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.Disruption of significant supplier relationships could negatively affect our business.United Natural Foods, Inc. (“UNFI”) is our single largest third-party supplier, accounting for approximately 32.5% of our total purchases in fiscal year 2016. Due to this concentration of purchases from a single third-party supplier, the cancellation of our distribution arrangement or the disruption, delay or inability of UNFI to deliver product to our stores may materially and adversely affect our operating results while we establish alternative distribution channels.The loss of key management or difficulties recruiting and retaining qualified team members could negatively affect our business.We are dependent upon a number of key management and other team members. If we were to lose the services of a significant number of key team members within a short period of time, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain key person insurance on any team member. Our continued success also is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified team members to meet our future growth needs. We face intense competition for qualified team members, many of whom are subject to offers from competing employers. We may not be able to attract and retain necessary team members to operate our business.A loss in consumer confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products could materially impact our results of operations.We believe our high quality standards differentiate our stores from other supermarkets and enable us to attract and maintain a broad base of loyal customers. Concerns regarding the quality or safety of our food products or our food supply chain, whether true or not, could cause consumers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative food sources. Any report linking the Company to food contamination, food tampering, mislabeling, or other food safety issues could adversely impact sales and possibly lead to product liability claims or litigation.Claims under our self-insurance program may differ from our estimates, which could materially impact our results of operations.The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, general liability, property insurance, director and officers’ liability insurance, vehicle liability and team member health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. In addition, a significant number of our stores are in locations that could be affected by natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, the Company could incur significant losses and significant expenditures in order to resume operations. Our results could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends.Market and Other External RisksIncreased competition may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.Our competitors include but are not limited to local, regional, national and international supermarkets, natural food stores, warehouse membership clubs, online retailers, small specialty stores, farmers’ markets, restaurants, home delivery and meal solution companies. Their businesses compete with us for products, customers and locations. In addition, some are expanding more aggressively in offering a range of natural and organic foods. Some of these competitors may have been in business longer or may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, 11Table of Contentspromoting and selling their products. As competition in certain areas intensifies, our operating results may be negatively impacted through a loss of sales, reduction in margin from competitive price changes, and/or greater operating costs such as marketing.Adverse publicity may reduce our brand value and negatively impact our business.We believe our Company has built an excellent reputation as a food retailer, socially responsible corporation and employer, and we believe our continued success depends on our ability to preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brand. Brand value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, which can negatively impact these perceptions and our business. We believe that many customers choose to shop our stores because of their interest in health, nutrition and food safety and that they hold us to a higher food safety standard than other supermarkets. There is increasing governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food safety. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in government enforcement action, private litigation, product recalls and other liabilities, the settlement or outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our operating results and brand value.Economic conditions that adversely impact consumer spending could materially impact our business.Our operating results may be materially impacted by changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer confidence and spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced competitors. In addition, there can be no assurance that various governmental activities to stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or change spending habits.Changes in the availability of quality natural and organic products could impact our business.We source our products from a variety of local, regional, national and international suppliers, and we rely on them to meet our quality standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner. There is, however, no assurance that quality natural and organic products will be available to meet our needs. Competition has increased for natural, organic, sustainably-sourced, and responsibly-grown products. As other competitors significantly increase their natural and organic product offerings, if new laws require the reformulation of certain products to meet tougher standards, or if natural disasters or other catastrophic events occur, the supply of these products may be constrained.A widespread health epidemic could materially impact our business.The Company’s business could be severely impacted by a widespread regional, national or global health epidemic. Our stores are a place where customers come together, interact and learn and at the same time discover the many joys of eating and sharing food. A widespread health epidemic may cause customers to avoid public gathering places or otherwise change their shopping behaviors. Additionally, a widespread health epidemic could also adversely impact our business by disrupting production and delivery of products to our stores and by impacting our ability to appropriately staff our stores.Financial Reporting, Legal and Other Regulatory RisksPending or future legal proceedings could materially impact our results of operations.From time to time, we are party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, product liability, protecting our intellectual property, acquisitions, and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Additionally, we are occasionally subject to industry-wide or class-action claims arising from the products we carry or industry-specific business practices. Further, we are involved in several securities class action litigation matters. Additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in additional securities class action litigation matters. Our results could be materially impacted by the decisions and expenses related to pending or future proceedings.Our indebtedness or inability to comply with debt covenants could materially impact our future cash flows.During fiscal year 2016, we entered into a $500 million revolving line of credit that extends to 2020, and we completed an offering of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.2% senior notes due 2025. Changes in our credit ratings, or in the interest rate environment, could have an adverse impact on our financing costs. A significant portion of our future cash flow from operating activities may be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes in the future. There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our debt service obligations. If we fail to comply with our debt covenants, we will be in default, in which case there can be no assurance that we would be able to cure the default, receive waivers from our lenders, amend the loan agreement or refinance the debt. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this report.12Table of ContentsChanges in accounting standards and estimates could materially impact our results of operations.Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as accounting for insurance and self-insurance, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, store closures, leases, income taxes and share-based payments, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying estimates, assumptions or judgments by our management could significantly change or add significant volatility to our reported earnings without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations.Effective tax rate changes and results of examinations by taxing authorities could materially impact our results of operations.Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix being lower than historical results in states or countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher-than-historical results in states or countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other state and local taxing authorities. Our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this report.Unfavorable changes in governmental regulation could harm our business.The Company is subject to various local, state, federal and international laws, regulations and administrative practices affecting our business, and we must comply with provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, weights and measures, food labeling, equal employment, minimum wages, and licensing for the sale of food and, in some stores, alcoholic beverages. Our new store openings could be delayed or prevented or our existing stores could be impacted by difficulties or failures in our ability to obtain or maintain required approvals or licenses. Changes in existing laws, changes in the enforcement of existing laws, or implementation of new laws, regulations and practices could have a significant impact on our business.The USDA’s Organic Rule facilitates interstate commerce and the marketing of organically produced food, and provides assurance to our customers that such products meet consistent, uniform standards. Compliance with this rule could pose a significant burden on some of our suppliers, which may cause a disruption in some of our product offerings.We cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate local, state, federal and international regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional recordkeeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our operating results.A failure or our internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business or stock price.The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Company’s management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 25, 2016. See Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting in Part 11, “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” of this report.Item 1B