.    Risk Factors.Disclaimer on Forward-looking StatementsWe wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications, as well as forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of our Company. These risks and uncertainties include the risk factors described below. These risks and uncertainties and additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may cause our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this analysis are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including general business conditions, changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending, including fuel prices and housing market trends, the impact of competition and other factors which are often beyond the control of the Company. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements.This information should be considered in conjunction with Part II, “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Report on Form 10‑K.Increased competition may adversely affect our revenues and profitability.Our competitors include but are not limited to local, regional, national and international supermarkets, natural food stores, warehouse membership clubs, online retailers, small specialty stores, farmers’ markets, and restaurants. Their businesses compete with us for products, customers and locations. In addition, some are expanding more aggressively in offering a range of natural and organic foods. Some of these competitors may have been in business longer or may have greater financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. As competition in certain areas intensifies, our operating results may be negatively impacted through a loss of sales, reduction in margin from competitive price changes, and/or greater operating costs such as marketing.Our growth depends on increasing sales in identical stores and on new store openings, and our failure to achieve these goals could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition.Our continued growth depends on our ability to increase sales in our identical stores and open new stores. Our operating results may be materially impacted by fluctuations in our identical store sales. Our identical store sales growth could be lower than our historical average for many reasons including the impact of new and acquired stores entering into the identical store base, the opening of new stores that cannibalize store sales in existing areas, general economic conditions, increased competition, price changes in response to competitive factors, possible supply shortages, and cycling against any year of above-average sales results.Our growth strategy includes opening new stores in existing and new areas and operating those stores successfully. Successful implementation of this strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face competition from other retailers for such sites. There can be no assurance that we will continue to grow through new store openings. We may not be able to open new stores timely or operate them successfully. Also, we may not be able to successfully hire and train new team members or integrate 11Table of Contentsthose team members into the programs and policies of the Company. We may not be able to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating systems to adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner.Economic conditions that adversely impact consumer spending could materially impact our business.Our operating results may be materially impacted by changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer confidence and spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs, the impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced competitors. In addition, there can be no assurance that various governmental activities to stimulate the economy will restore consumer confidence or change spending habits.We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, which may adversely affect our stock price.Our quarterly operating results and quarter-to-quarter comparisons could fluctuate for many reasons, including, but not limited to, price changes in response to competitive factors, seasonality, holiday shifts, increases in store operating costs, including commodity costs, possible supply shortages, general economic conditions, extreme weather-related disruptions, and other business costs. In addition, our results may be impacted by the timing of new store openings, construction and pre-opening expenses; the timing of acquisitions, store closures and relocations; and the range of operating results generated from newly opened stores.Our stock price has been volatile and may be negatively affected by reasons unrelated to our operating performance.In fiscal year 2013, the closing market price per share of our common stock ranged from $41.51 to $59.32. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to various market factors and events. These market factors and events include variations in our sales and earnings results and any failure to meet market expectations; changes in ratings and earnings estimates by securities analysts; publicity regarding us, our competitors, or the natural products industry generally; new statutes or regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing statutes or regulations affecting the natural products industry specifically; and sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur and other factors. In addition, the stock market, at times, experiences broad price fluctuations that may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Adverse publicity may reduce our brand value and negatively impact our business.We believe our Company has built an excellent reputation as a food retailer, socially responsible corporation and employer, and we believe our continued success depends on our ability to preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brand. Brand value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and even isolated incidents can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, which can negatively impact these perceptions and our business. In addition, our brand and reputation could be harmed by actions taken by our suppliers that are outside of our control.Changes in the availability of quality natural and organic products could impact our business.We source our products from a variety of local, regional, national and international suppliers, and we rely on them to meet our quality standards and supply products in a timely and efficient manner. There is, however, no assurance that quality natural and organic products will be available to meet our needs. If other competitors significantly increase their natural and organic product offerings, if new laws require the reformulation of certain products to meet tougher standards, or if natural disasters or other catastrophic events occur, the supply of these products may be constrained.Disruption of significant supplier relationships could negatively affect our business.United Natural Foods, Inc. (“UNFI”) is our single largest third-party supplier, accounting for approximately 32% of our total purchases in fiscal year 2013. Due to this concentration of purchases from a single third-party supplier, the cancellation of our distribution arrangement or the disruption, delay or inability of UNFI to deliver product to our stores may materially and adversely affect our operating results while we establish alternative distribution channels.Future events could result in impairment of long-lived assets, which may result in charges that adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization.Our total assets included long-lived assets totaling approximately $2.5 billion as of September 29, 2013. Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Our impairment evaluations require use of financial estimates of future cash flows. Application of alternative assumptions could produce significantly different results. We may be required to recognize impairments of long-lived assets based on future economic factors such as unfavorable changes in estimated future undiscounted cash flows of an asset group.12Table of ContentsWe have significant lease obligations, which may require us to continue paying rent for store locations that we no longer operate.The majority of our stores, distribution centers, bakehouses and administrative facilities are leased. We are subject to risks associated with our current and future real estate leases. Our costs could increase because of changes in the real estate markets and supply or demand for real estate sites. We generally cannot cancel our leases, so if we decide to close a location, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, including paying the base rent for the remaining lease term. As each lease expires, we may fail to negotiate renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or any terms at all. As of September 29, 2013, we had 26 leased properties and adjacent spaces that are not being utilized in current operations. These properties represent acquired dormant locations, stores closed post-acquisition, and stores closed due to relocation. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, “Leases,” in Part II, “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Report on Form 10-K.Claims under our self-insurance program may differ from our estimates, which could materially impact our results of operations.The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for the potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, general liability, property insurance, director and officers’ liability insurance, vehicle liability and team member health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks that are retained by the Company are estimated, in part, by considering historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. Our results could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends.Perishable foods product losses could materially impact our results of operations.Our stores offer a significant number of perishable products, accounting for approximately 66.2% of our total sales in fiscal year 2013. The Company’s emphasis on perishable products may result in significant product inventory losses in the event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences.Actual or perceived food safety concerns may adversely affect our sales.There is increasing governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food safety. We believe that many customers choose to shop our stores because of their interest in health, nutrition and food safety. We believe that our customers hold us to a higher food safety standard than other supermarkets. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in government enforcement action, private litigation, product recalls and other liabilities, the settlement or outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our operating results.Pending or future legal proceedings could materially impact our results of operations.From time to time, we are party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property, product liability, acquisitions, and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Our results could be materially impacted by the decisions and expenses related to pending or future proceedings.The loss of key management could negatively affect our business.We are dependent upon a number of key management and other team members. If we were to lose the services of a significant number of key team members within a short period of time, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not maintain key person insurance on any team member. Our continued success also is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified team members to meet our future growth needs. We face intense competition for qualified team members, many of whom are subject to offers from competing employers. We may not be able to attract and retain necessary team members to operate our business.A widespread health epidemic could materially impact our business.The Company’s business could be severely impacted by a widespread regional, national or global health epidemic. Our stores are a place where customers come together, interact and learn and at the same time discover the many joys of eating and sharing food. A widespread health epidemic may cause customers to avoid public gathering places or otherwise change their shopping behaviors. Additionally, a widespread health epidemic could also adversely impact our business by disrupting production and delivery of products to our stores and by impacting our ability to appropriately staff our stores.Our investments in money market funds and certain other securities are subject to market risks, which may result in losses.As of September 29, 2013, we had approximately $194 million in short-term investments classified as cash and cash equivalents and approximately $1.0 billion in available-for-sale marketable securities. We have invested these amounts primarily in state and local municipal obligations, government agency securities, corporate commercial paper, and money market funds meeting certain criteria. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which, if they materialize, could have a negative impact on our results of operations.13Table of ContentsEffective tax rate changes and results of examinations by taxing authorities could materially impact our results of operations.Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix being lower than historical results in states or countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher-than-historical results in states or countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other state and local taxing authorities. Our results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related to proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing authorities. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, “Income Taxes,” in Part II, “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” of this Report on Form 10-K.Unions may attempt to organize our team members, which could harm our business.All of our team members are non-union, and we consider our team member relations to be very strong. From time to time, however, unions have attempted to organize all or part of our team member base at certain stores and non-retail facilities. Responding to such organization attempts is distracting to management and team members and may have a negative financial impact on a store, facility or the Company as a whole.Changes in accounting standards and estimates could materially impact our results of operations.Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our business, such as accounting for insurance and self-insurance, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, store closures, leases, income taxes and share-based payments, are highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying estimates, assumptions or judgments by our management could significantly change or add significant volatility to our reported earnings without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations.Unfavorable changes in governmental regulation could harm our business.The Company is subject to various local, state, federal and international laws, regulations and administrative practices affecting our business, and we must comply with provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, food labeling, equal employment, minimum wages, and licensing for the sale of food and, in some stores, alcoholic beverages. Our new store openings could be delayed or prevented or our existing stores could be impacted by difficulties or failures in our ability to obtain or maintain required approvals or licenses. Changes in existing laws or implementation of new laws, regulations and practices (e.g., health care legislation) could have a significant impact on our business.The USDA’s Organic Rule facilitates interstate commerce and the marketing of organically produced food, and provides assurance to our customers that such products meet consistent, uniform standards. Compliance with this rule could pose a significant burden on some of our suppliers, which may cause a disruption in some of our product offerings.We cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate local, state, federal and international regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated, additional recordkeeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our operating results.Disruptions in our information systems could harm our ability to run our business.We rely extensively on information systems for point-of-sale processing in our stores, supply chain, financial reporting, human resources and various other processes and transactions. Our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction processing or other systems that could result in the compromise of confidential customer data, catastrophic events, and usage errors by our team members. If our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, suffer interruptions in our operations, face costly litigation, and our reputation with our customers may be harmed. Any material interruption in our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our operating results.The risk associated with doing business in other countries could materially impact our results of operations.Though only 3.3% of our total sales in fiscal year 2013, the Company’s international operations are subject to certain risks of conducting business abroad, including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in regulatory requirements, and changes or uncertainties in the economic, social and political conditions in the Company’s geographic areas, among other things.14Table of ContentsWe may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, which could harm our business.We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law and internal procedures and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products may be produced or sold do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Failure to protect our proprietary information could have a material adverse effect on our business.A failure of our internal control over financial reporting could materially impact our business or stock price.The Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Company’s management concluded that its internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 29, 2013. See Part II, “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures – Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.”Item 1B