Item 1A.     Risk
Factors.

 

We wish to caution you
that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to
be materially different from those indicated by forward-looking statements that
we make from time to time in filings with the SEC, news releases, reports, proxy
statements, registration statements and other written communications, as well
as oral forward-looking statements made from time to time by representatives of
the Company. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the
risks described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known
to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business
operations. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that
could cause our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows
to be materially adversely affected. The Company does not undertake any
obligation to update forward-looking statements.

 

Our
Growth Is Significantly Dependent on New Store Openings and Acquisitions

 

Our strategy is to expand
through a combination of new store openings and, to a lesser extent,
acquisitions of existing store locations or businesses. Successful
implementation of this strategy is contingent on numerous conditions, some of
which are described below, and there can be no assurance that this expansion
strategy can be successfully executed.

 

Our continued growth
depends to a significant degree on our ability to open or acquire new stores in
existing and new locations and to operate these stores successfully. Our expansion
strategy is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face intense
competition from other retailers for such sites. There can be no assurance that
we will continue to grow through new store openings and/or acquisitions. We may
not be able to timely open new stores or operate them successfully. Also, we
may not be able to successfully hire and train new team members or integrate
those team members into the programs and policies of the Company. We may not be
able to adapt our distribution, management information and other operating
systems to adequately supply products to new stores at competitive prices so
that we can operate the stores in a successful and profitable manner.

 

17











Table of Contents

 

Our Business May be
Sensitive to Economic Conditions that Impact Consumer Spending

 

Our results of operations
may be sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer
spending, including discretionary spending. Future economic conditions
affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business
conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the availability of credit,
interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs, the impact of natural
disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could reduce consumer
spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to lower-priced
competitors. A general reduction in the level of discretionary spending or
shifts in consumer discretionary spending to our competitors could adversely
affect our growth and profitability.

 

We May Not
Realize the Benefits from Acquisitions Contemplated at the Time of Transaction

 

Risks we may face in connection
with acquisitions include being unable to successfully integrate acquired
businesses into our operations and support systems, or the operations of
acquired businesses may be adversely affected by the introduction of our
decentralized operational approach. Costs associated with integrating the
operations of acquired companies may be greater than anticipated. Also, the
integration of acquired operations into our operations requires the dedication
of management resources that may detract attention from our day-to-day business
to a degree greater than anticipated. An acquisition may not further our
business strategy as we expected, or we may pay more than the acquired company
or assets are worth. Our due diligence process may fail to identify all of the
problems, liabilities or other significant issues of an acquired company. These
risks associated with acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

 

New Stores May Negatively
Impact Our Results

 

There can be no assurance
that our new store openings will be successful or result in greater sales and
profitability for the Company. New stores build their sales volumes and refine
their merchandise selection over time and, as a result, generally have lower
gross margins and higher operating expenses as a percentage of sales than our
more mature stores. There may be a negative impact on our results from a lower
contribution of new stores, along with the impact of related pre-opening and relocation
costs.

 

We May Experience
Significant Fluctuations in Our Comparable Store Sales

 

Our comparable store
sales could fluctuate or be lower than our historical average for many reasons
including new and acquired stores entering into the comparable store base, the
opening of new stores that cannibalize store sales in existing areas, general
economic conditions, increased competition, price changes in response to
competitive factors, possible supply shortages, and cycling against any year of
above-average sales results. Our results of operations may be materially
impacted by fluctuations in our comparable store sales as the result of lower
sales, lower gross profits and/or greater operating costs such as marketing.

 

We May Experience
Significant Fluctuations in Our Quarterly Operating Results

 

Our quarterly operating
results could fluctuate for many reasons, including losses from new stores,
variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in response to
competitive factors and a potential lack of customer acceptance, foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations, increases in store operating costs,
including commodity costs, that are either wholly or partially beyond our
control, possible supply shortages, general economic conditions, legal costs, insurance
costs, extreme weather-related disruptions, including hurricanes and
earthquakes, and potential uninsured casualty losses or other losses. In
addition, our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as the
result of the timing of new store openings, construction and pre-opening
expenses, the timing of acquisitions, store closures and relocations, and the
range of operating results generated from newly opened stores.
Quarter-to-quarter comparisons of results of operations have been and may be
materially impacted by the timing of new store openings.

 

Increased
Competition May Have an Adverse Effect on Profitability

 

Our competitors include
but are not limited to local, regional, national and international
supermarkets, natural food stores, warehouse membership clubs, small specialty
stores and restaurants. These businesses compete with us for products,
customers, and locations. In addition, some are expanding more aggressively in
marketing a range of natural and organic foods. Some of these potential
competitors may have been in business longer or may have greater financial or
marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to
sourcing, promoting and selling their products. As competition in certain areas
intensifies, our results of operations may be negatively impacted through a
loss of sales, reduction in margin from competitive price changes, and/or
greater operating costs such as marketing.

 

Our Results Are Subject to the
Risks of Doing Business in Other Countries

 

In fiscal year 2008,
sales at our stores in Canada and the U.K. accounted for approximately 3% of
our total sales. Though small as a percentage of total sales, the Company’s
international operations are subject to certain risks of conducting business 

 

18












Table of Contents

 

abroad, including
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in regulatory
requirements, and changes or uncertainties in the economic, social and
political conditions in the Company’s geographic areas, among other things.

 

Legal
Proceedings Could Materially Impact Our Results

 

From time to time, we are
party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and
employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property, acquisitions, and
other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. In addition, the
FTC has resumed its administrative action challenging the Company’s August 28,
2007 acquisition of Wild Oats Markets. Our results could be materially impacted
by the decisions and expenses related to pending or future proceedings.

 

We May Be Subject to Product
Liability Claims if People Are Harmed By the Products We Sell

 

There is increasing
governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food safety. We believe
that many customers choose to shop our stores because of their interest in
health, nutrition and food safety. We believe that our customers hold us to a
higher food safety standard than other supermarkets. The real or perceived sale
of contaminated food products by us could result in product liability claims,
the settlement or outcome of which might have a material adverse effect on our
sales and operations.

 

The Loss
of Key Management Could Negatively Affect Our Business

 

We are dependent upon a
number of key management and other team members. If we were to lose the
services of a significant number of key team members within a short period of
time, this could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We do not
maintain key person insurance on any team member. Our continued success is also
dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified team members to meet
our future growth needs. We face intense competition for qualified team
members, many of whom are subject to offers from competing employers. We may
not be able to attract and retain necessary team members to operate our
business.

 

Unions May Attempt to
Organize Our Team Members

 

Unions have from time to
time attempted to organize all or part of our team member base at certain
stores and non-retail facilities. Responding to such organization attempts is
distracting to management and team members and may have a negative financial
impact on a store, facility or the Company as a whole.

 

Unfavorable Changes in Government
Regulation Could Harm Our Business

 

Our stores are subject to
various international, federal, state and local laws, regulations and
administrative practices affecting our business, and we must comply with
provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, food labeling, equal
employment, minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food and, in some
stores, alcoholic beverages. Our new store openings could be delayed or
prevented or our existing stores could be impacted by difficulties or failures
in our ability to obtain or maintain required approvals or licenses.

 

The manufacturing,
processing, formulating, packaging, labeling and advertising of products are
subject to regulation by various federal agencies including the FDA, FTC, CPSC,
USDA and EPA. The composition and labeling of nutritional supplements are most
actively regulated by the FDA under the provisions of the FFDC Act. The FFDC
Act has been revised in recent years with respect to dietary supplements by the
Nutrition Labeling and Education Act and by the Dietary Supplement Health and
Education Act.

 

The USDA’s Organic Rule facilitates
interstate commerce and the marketing of organically produced food and provides
assurance to our customers that such products meet consistent, uniform
standards. Compliance with this rule could pose a significant burden on
some of our suppliers, which may cause a disruption in some of our product
offerings.

 

We cannot predict the
nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, or
determine what effect either additional government regulations or
administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state and
local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They could,
however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards,
the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be reformulated,
additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain
products, expanded or different labeling and/or scientific substantiation. Any
or all of such requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.

 

A
Widespread Health Epidemic  Could
Materially Impact Our Business

 

The Company’s business
could be severely impacted by a widespread regional, national or global health
epidemic. Our stores are a place where customers come together, interact and
learn while at the same time discovering the many joys of eating and sharing
food. A widespread health epidemic may cause customers to avoid public
gathering places or otherwise change their 

 

19












Table
of Contents

 

shopping behaviors.
Additionally, a widespread health epidemic could also adversely impact our
business by disrupting production and delivery of products to our stores and by
impacting our ability to appropriately staff our stores.

 

Changes in the Availability of
Quality Natural and Organic Products Could Impact Our Business

 

There is no assurance
that quality natural and organic products will be available to meet our future
needs. If other supermarkets significantly increase their natural and organic
product offerings or if new laws require the reformulation of certain products
to meet tougher standards, the supply of these products may be constrained. Any
significant disruption in the supply of quality natural and organic products
could have a material impact on our overall sales and cost of goods sold.

 

Perishable
Foods Product Losses Could Materially Impact Our Results

 

We believe our stores
more heavily emphasize perishable products than other supermarket stores.
Perishable products accounted for approximately 67% of total sales at Whole
Foods Market locations in fiscal year 2008. The Company’s emphasis on
perishable products may result in significant product inventory losses in the
event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other catastrophic
occurrences.

 

Our Stock Price Is Volatile

 

The market price of our
common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to various
market factors and events. These market factors and events include variations
in our sales and earnings results and any failure to meet market expectations;
changes in ratings and earnings estimates by securities analysts; publicity
regarding us, our competitors, the natural products industry generally; new
statutes or regulations or changes in the interpretation of existing statutes
or regulations affecting the natural products industry specifically; sales of
substantial amounts of common stock in the public market or the perception that
such sales could occur and other factors. In addition, the stock market in
recent years has experienced broad price and volume fluctuations that often
have been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These
market fluctuations also may adversely affect the market price of our common
stock.

 

Future
Economic Factors Could Cause Impairment of Goodwill

 

Our total assets included
goodwill totaling approximately $659.6 million at September 28, 2008. In
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets”, goodwill is reviewed for impairment
annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. We allocate
goodwill to one reporting unit for goodwill impairment testing. As described in
“Item 1B