Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a discussion of risks and uncertainties that
may affect our business.

 

PART I

 

Item 1.      Business.

 

General

 

Whole
Foods Market is the world’s leading natural and organic foods supermarket and
America’s first national “Certified Organic” grocer. Unless otherwise
specified, references to “Whole Foods Market,” “Company,” or “We” in this
Report include the Company and its consolidated, wholly owned subsidiaries. The
Company was formed in 1980 and is based in Austin, Texas. We completed our
initial public offering in January 1992, and our common stock trades on
the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “WFMI.” Our Company
mission is to promote the vitality and well-being of all individuals by
supplying the highest quality, most wholesome foods available. Since the purity
of our food and the health of our bodies are directly related to the purity and
health of our environment, our core mission is devoted to the promotion of
organically grown foods, food safety concerns, and the sustainability of our
entire ecosystem. Through our growth, we have had a significant and positive
impact on the natural and organic foods movement throughout the United States,
helping lead the industry to nationwide acceptance over the last 30 years.

 

We
have one operating segment, natural and organic foods supermarkets. As of September 26,
2010 we operated 299 stores in the United States, Canada, and the United
Kingdom. Our stores average 37,600 square feet in size and nine years in age,
and are supported by our Austin headquarters, regional offices, distribution
centers, bakehouse facilities, commissary kitchens, seafood-processing
facilities, meat and produce procurement centers, and a specialty coffee, tea
procurement and brewing operation.

 

The
following is a summary of our annual percentage sales and net long-lived assets
by geographic area:

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2010
  
  
   
  
  
  2009
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Sales:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  United States
  
  
   
  
  
  97.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  97.2
  
  
  %
  
  
  96.5
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Canada and United Kingdom
  
  
   
  
  
  3.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  2.8
  
  
  %
  
  
  3.5
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Total sales
  
  
   
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Long-lived assets, net:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  United States
  
  
   
  
  
  96.6
  
  
  %
  
  
  96.5
  
  
  %
  
  
  96.4
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Canada and United Kingdom
  
  
   
  
  
  3.4
  
  
  %
  
  
  3.5
  
  
  %
  
  
  3.6
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Total long-lived assets, net
  
  
   
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
 


 

The Natural and Organic Products Industry

 

According
to a leading trade publication for the industry, sales of natural products
across all retail and direct-to-consumer channels grew to approximately $76
billion in 2009, a 5% increase over the prior year. We believe the growth in
sales of natural and organic foods is being driven by numerous factors,
including:

 

·                  heightened awareness of the role that food
and nutrition play in long-term health, which has led to healthier eating
patterns;

·                  a better-educated and wealthier populace
whose median age is increasing each year;

·                  increasing consumer concern over the purity
and safety of food due to the presence of pesticide residues, growth hormones,
artificial ingredients and other chemicals, and genetically engineered
ingredients; and

·                  environmental concerns due to the degradation
of water and soil quality.

 

Our Core Values

 

We
believe that much of our success to date is because we remain a uniquely
mission-driven Company. Our core values succinctly express the purpose of our
business, which is not only to make profits but to create value for all of our
major stakeholders, each of which is linked interdependently. By maintaining
our core values, regardless of how large we become, we are able to preserve what
has always been special about our Company.

 

3












Table of
Contents

 

Our
core values are:

 

·                  Selling the highest quality natural and
organic products available;

·                  Satisfying and delighting our customers;

·                  Supporting team member happiness and
excellence;

·                  Creating wealth through profits and growth;

·                  Caring about our communities and our environment;

·                  Creating ongoing win-win partnerships with
our suppliers; and

·                  Promoting the health of our stakeholders
through healthy eating education.

 

Products

 

We
offer a broad and differentiated selection of high-quality natural and organic
products with a strong emphasis on perishable foods. Our product selection
includes, but is not limited to: produce, seafood, grocery, meat and poultry,
bakery, prepared foods and catering, specialty (beer, wine and cheese), coffee
and tea, nutritional supplements, vitamins, body care and educational products
such as books, floral, pet products and household products. We estimate our
stores carry on average approximately 20,500 SKUs.

 

The
following is a summary of annual percentage sales by product category:

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2010
  
  
   
  
  
  2009
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Grocery
  
  
   
  
  
  33.5
  
  
  %
  
  
  33.8
  
  
  %
  
  
  33.2
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Prepared foods
  
  
   
  
  
  18.8
  
  
  %
  
  
  19.1
  
  
  %
  
  
  19.3
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Other perishables
  
  
   
  
  
  47.7
  
  
  %
  
  
  47.1
  
  
  %
  
  
  47.5
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Total sales
  
  
   
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
 


 

Natural
foods can be defined as foods that are minimally processed, largely or
completely free of artificial ingredients, preservatives and other
non-naturally occurring chemicals and as near to their whole, natural state as
possible. Organic foods are grown through methods intended to support and
enhance the earth’s natural balance. Under the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
(“USDA”) Organic Rule, implemented into Federal law in 2002, all products
labeled as “organic” in any form must be certified by a USDA-accredited
certifying agency. Furthermore, all retailers, including Whole Foods Market,
that handle, store, and sell organic products must implement measures to
protect their organic integrity. Generally, organic food products are produced
using:

 

·                  agricultural management practices intended to
promote and enhance ecosystem health;

·                  no genetically engineered seeds or crops,
sewage sludge, long-lasting pesticides, herbicides or fungicides;

·                  livestock management practices intended to
promote healthy, humanely treated animals by providing organically grown feed,
fresh air and outdoor access while using no antibiotics or growth hormones; and

·                  food processing practices intended to protect
the integrity of the organic product and disallow irradiation, genetically
modified organisms (“GMOs”) or synthetic preservatives.

 

Our Quality Standards

 

We
aspire to become an international brand synonymous with not just natural and
organic foods, but also with being the highest quality food retailer in every
community in which we are located. We believe our strict quality standards
differentiate our stores from other supermarkets and enable us to attract and
maintain a broad base of loyal customers.

 

·                  We carefully evaluate each and every product
we sell.

·                  We feature foods that are free of artificial
preservatives, colors, flavors, sweeteners and hydrogenated fats.

·                  We are passionate about great tasting food
and the pleasure of sharing it with others.

·                  We are committed to foods that are fresh,
wholesome and safe to eat.

·                  We seek out and promote organically grown
foods.

·                  We provide food and nutritional products that
support health and well-being.

 

Store Brands

 

Our
store brands currently feature approximately 2,200 SKUs led by our primary
brands, 365 Everyday Value and 365 Organic. While some of our store brands
yield greater margins than their national brand alternative, their primary
purpose is to help differentiate our product selection and provide more value
offerings to our customers. In addition to our nationally driven programs, we
have a number of store-made and regionally made fresh items sold under the
Whole Foods Market label; we offer specialty and organic coffee, tea and
drinking chocolates through our Allegro Coffee Company subsidiary, and we 

 

4












Table of Contents

 

have
developed a grouping of “exclusive” and “control brand” products to fill out
our family of brands. Total sales of store-branded products across all
categories were approximately 11% of our retail sales in both fiscal years 2010
and 2009.

 

Whole TradeTM Guarantee

 

Whole
Trade Guarantee products meet our high quality standards; provide more money to
producers; ensure better wages and working conditions for workers; and utilize
sound environmental practices. Our Whole Trade Guarantee program currently
includes over 1,400 items, with sales of approximately $114.3 million in fiscal
year 2010. Whole Foods Market donates 1% of sales of exclusive Whole Trade
Guarantee products to the Whole Planet Foundation® to help alleviate world poverty.

 

Locally Grown

 

We
are committed to buying from local producers whose products meet our high
quality standards, particularly those who are dedicated to environmentally
friendly, sustainable agriculture. Whole Foods Market currently purchases
produce from over 2,000 different farms through various suppliers. In 2007, we
established a budget of up to $10 million to promote local food production, and
as of September 26, 2010, we had disbursed more than $3.7 million in loans
to 66 local producers Company-wide.

 

Animal Compassionate

 

We
are dedicated to promoting animal welfare on farms and ranches that raise
animals for meat production, helping to create alternatives to the “factory
farm” methods of raising livestock. We have encouraged innovative animal
production practices to improve the quality and safety of the meat and poultry
sold in our stores while also supporting humane living conditions for the
animals. Work on our “animal compassionate” standards started in 2003, and
additional standards development and implementation of a 5-Step Animal Welfare
Rating system transitioned to the Global Animal Partnership foundation in 2008.
Global Animal Partnership’s 5-Step Animal Welfare Rating standards have been
developed for beef cattle, pigs and broiler chickens and are in the works for
other species as well. By February 2011, our meat departments in all
stores will reflect these certifications.

 

Sustainable Seafood

 

In
September 2010, we completed the launch of a color-coded, science-based
seafood sustainability ratings program developed by partnering organizations,
Blue Ocean Institute and Monterey Bay Aquarium. The new program rates non-MSC
certified wild-caught seafood based on key criteria for sustainable fisheries
with solid, transparent ranking methods. The ratings provide customers with the
information they need to make informed decisions about their seafood purchases,
and with our promise to phase out all “red-rated” species by Earth Day 2013, we
have deepened our commitment to having fully sustainable seafood departments.
This new seafood ratings program builds upon our ongoing partnership with the
Marine Stewardship Council (“MSC”) and complements Whole Foods Market’s
existing farmed seafood standards, which remain the highest in the industry.
Farmed seafood at Whole Foods Market carries the “Responsibly Farmed” logo to
indicate that it meets these high standards.

 

Seasonality

 

The
Company’s average weekly sales are typically highest in the second and third
fiscal quarters and lowest in the fourth fiscal quarter. Gross profit is
typically lower in the first fiscal quarter due to the product mix of holiday
sales, and in the fourth fiscal quarter due to the seasonally slower sales
period during the summer months.

 

Growth Strategy

 

We
are a Fortune 500 company, ranking number 284 on the 2010 list. Our sales have
grown rapidly due to historically high identical store sales growth,
acquisitions, and new store openings from approximately $92.5 million in fiscal
year 1991, excluding the effect of pooling-of-interests transactions completed
since 1991, to approximately $9.01 billion in fiscal year 2010, a compounded
annual growth rate of approximately 27%.

 

Over
the last 10 years, our identical store sales growth has averaged approximately
7%. Approximately 21% of our existing square footage was acquired, and while we
may continue to pursue acquisitions of smaller chains that provide access to
desirable areas and experienced team members, such acquisitions are not
expected to significantly impact our future store growth or financial results.
Our growth strategy is to expand primarily through new store openings. We have
a disciplined, opportunistic real estate strategy, opening stores in existing
trade areas as well as new areas, including international locations. Our new
stores typically are located on premium real estate sites and range in size
between 35,000 and 50,000 square feet which we believe is appropriate in most
circumstances to maximize return on invested capital and Economic Value Added (“EVA®”). We expect the majority
of our stores to fall within this range going forward. In its simplest
definition, EVA is equivalent to net operating profits after taxes minus a
charge on the cost of invested capital necessary to generate those profits.

 

5












Table of
Contents

 

Our
historical store growth and sales mix is summarized below:

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2010
  
  
   
  
  
  2009
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Stores at beginning of fiscal year
  
  
   
  
  
  284
  
  
   
  
  
  275
  
  
   
  
  
  276
  
  
   
  
  
  186
  
  
   
  
  
  175
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Stores opened
  
  
   
  
  
  16
  
  
   
  
  
  15
  
  
   
  
  
  20
  
  
   
  
  
  21
  
  
   
  
  
  13
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Acquired stores
  
  
   
  
  
  2
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  109
  
  
   
  
  
  1
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Divested stores
  
  
   
  
  
  (2
  
  
  )
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  (35
  
  
  )
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Relocated stores
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  (5
  
  
  )
  
  
  (7
  
  
  )
  
  
  (5
  
  
  )
  
  
  (2
  
  
  )
  
 
 
  
  Closed stores
  
  
   
  
  
  (1
  
  
  )
  
  
  (1
  
  
  )
  
  
  (14
  
  
  )
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  (1
  
  
  )
  
 
 
  
  Stores at end of fiscal year
  
  
   
  
  
  299
  
  
   
  
  
  284
  
  
   
  
  
  275
  
  
   
  
  
  276
  
  
   
  
  
  186
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Remodels with major expansions(1)
  
  
   
  
  
  —
  
  
   
  
  
  2
  
  
   
  
  
  1
  
  
   
  
  
  2
  
  
   
  
  
  1
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total gross square footage at end of fiscal year
  
  
   
  
  
  11,231,000
  
  
   
  
  
  10,566,000
  
  
   
  
  
  9,895,000
  
  
   
  
  
  9,312,000
  
  
   
  
  
  6,377,000
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Year-over-year growth
  
  
   
  
  
  6
  
  
  %
  
  
  7
  
  
  %
  
  
  6
  
  
  %
  
  
  46
  
  
  %
  
  
  10
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Sales mix:
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Identical stores
  
  
   
  
  
  93.2
  
  
  %
  
  
  91.4
  
  
  %
  
  
  80.9
  
  
  %
  
  
  88.8
  
  
  %
  
  
  90.4
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  New/relocated stores and remodels with major
  expansions
  
  
   
  
  
  6.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  7.8
  
  
  %
  
  
  9.9
  
  
  %
  
  
  8.4
  
  
  %
  
  
  8.8
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Acquired stores
  
  
   
  
  
  0.1
  
  
  %
  
  
  0.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  8.7
  
  
  %
  
  
  1.3
  
  
  %
  
  
  0.1
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Other sales, primarily non-retail external sales
  
  
   
  
  
  0.7
  
  
  %
  
  
  0.8
  
  
  %
  
  
  0.5
  
  
  %
  
  
  1.5
  
  
  %
  
  
  0.7
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Total sales
  
  
   
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
  
  100.0
  
  
  %
  
 


 

(1) Defined as remodels with
expansions of square footage greater than 20% completed during the fiscal year.

 

We remain focused on the right sized store for each market. In response
to overall economic conditions, we trimmed approximately 1.4 million square
feet from our development pipeline. Over the last two and a half years, we
downsized 20 leases for stores in development by an average of 13,000 square
feet each, and we terminated 22 leases averaging 52,000 square feet per store.
We are now focused on rebuilding the pipeline given the improvement in the
economy, our strong new store performance, and the favorable rent opportunities
we are seeing. We anticipate an accelerated pace of lease signings in the
future to translate into a higher number of store openings starting in fiscal
year 2012. Our historical store development pipeline is summarized below:

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  November 3,
  
  
   
  
  
  November 4,
  
  
   
  
  
  November 5,
  
  
   
  
  
  November 20,
  
  
   
  
  
  November 2,
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2010
  
  
   
  
  
  2009
  
  
   
  
  
  2008
  
  
   
  
  
  2007
  
  
   
  
  
  2006
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Stores in development
  
  
   
  
  
  52
  
  
   
  
  
  53
  
  
   
  
  
  66
  
  
   
  
  
  87
  
  
   
  
  
  88
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Average size (gross square feet)
  
  
   
  
  
  39,000
  
  
   
  
  
  45,000
  
  
   
  
  
  49,000
  
  
   
  
  
  51,000
  
  
   
  
  
  56,000
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total gross square footage in development
  
  
   
  
  
  2,052,000
  
  
   
  
  
  2,410,000
  
  
   
  
  
  3,294,000
  
  
   
  
  
  4,485,000
  
  
   
  
  
  5,003,000
  
  
   
  
 


 

Store Description

 

Each
of our stores is designed to fit the size and configuration of the particular
location and to reflect the community in which it is located. We strive to
transform food shopping from a chore into a dynamic experience by building and
operating stores with colorful décor, well-trained team members, an exciting
product mix that emphasizes healthy eating and our high quality standards,
ever-changing selections, samples, open kitchens, scratch bakeries,
hand-stacked produce, and prepared foods stations. We also incorporate many
environmentally sustainable aspects into our store design. Our stores typically
include sit-down eating areas, customer comment boards and customer service
booths. In addition, some stores offer special services such as massage, valet
parking, personal shopping and home delivery. We believe our stores play a
unique role as a third place, besides the home and office, where people can
gather, interact and learn while at the same time discovering the many joys of
eating and sharing food.

 

Most
of our stores are located in high-traffic shopping areas on premier real estate
sites and are either freestanding or in strip centers. We also have a number of
urban stores located in high-density, mixed-use developments. In selecting
store locations, we use an internally developed model to analyze potential
sites based on various criteria such as education levels, population density
and income levels within certain drive times. After we have selected a target
site, our development group does a comprehensive site study and sales
projection. Each project must meet an internal EVA hurdle return based on a 9%
weighted average cost of capital, which for new stores generally is expected to
be cumulative positive EVA in five years or less.

 

The
required cash investment for new stores varies depending on the size of the
store, geographic location, degree of work performed by the landlord and
complexity of site development issues. To a significant degree, it also depends
on how the project is structured, including costs for elements that often
increase or decrease rent, e.g., lease acquisition costs, shell and/or garage
costs, and landlord allowances. For stores opened during fiscal year 2010, the
average size was 42,600 square feet, and the average new store investment was
approximately $11.1 million, or $261 per square foot. This excludes new store
inventory of approximately $0.9 million and pre-opening and relocation
expenses, which averaged approximately $2.6 million per store. In comparison,
our stores opened during fiscal year 2009, including six relocations, averaged
53,500 square feet in 

 

6












Table of
Contents

 

size,
and the average new store investment was approximately $16.9 million, or $316
per square foot; new store inventory averaged $1.1 million, and pre-opening and
relocation expenses averaged approximately $3.0 million.

 

Purchasing and Distribution

 

The
majority of our purchasing, particularly in dry grocery, occurs at the regional
and national levels, enabling us to negotiate better volume discounts with
major vendors and distributors while allowing our store buyers to focus on
local products and the unique product mix necessary to keep the neighborhood
market feel in our stores. We are increasingly focusing more of our purchasing
on producer-direct and manufacturer-direct programs, and we remain committed to
buying from local producers that meet our high quality standards.

 

We
own two produce procurement centers which facilitate the procurement and
distribution of the majority of the produce we sell. We also operate four
seafood-processing and distribution facilities, a specialty coffee and tea
procurement and brewing operation, and 10 regional distribution centers that
focus primarily on perishables distribution to our stores across the U.S.,
Canada and the United Kingdom. In addition, we have five regional commissary
kitchens and six bakehouse facilities, all of which distribute products to our
stores. Other products are typically procured through a combination of
specialty wholesalers and direct distributors.

 

United
Natural Foods, Inc. (“UNFI”) is our single largest third-party supplier,
accounting for approximately 27% of our total purchases in fiscal year 2010. In
June 2010, we extended our long-term relationship with UNFI as our primary
supplier of dry grocery and frozen food products through 2020. A separate
agreement signed in July 2010 made UNFI our primary non-perishables
distributor in an additional two regions, beginning in fiscal year 2011,
allowing us to focus our internal distribution efforts in our regions around
key perishable departments.

 

Store Operations

 

We
strive to promote a strong Company culture featuring a team approach to store
operations that we believe is distinctly more empowering of team members than
that of the traditional supermarket. Our domestic Whole Foods Market stores
each employ between 45 and 650 team members who comprise up to 13 self-managed
teams per store, each led by a team leader. Each team within a store is
responsible for a different product offering or aspect of store operations such
as prepared foods, grocery, or customer service, among others. We also promote
a decentralized approach to store operations in which many decisions are made by
teams at the individual store level. In this structure, an effective store team
leader is critical to the success of the store. The store team leader works
closely with one or more assistant store team leaders, as well as with all of
the department team leaders, to operate the store as efficiently and profitably
as possible.

 

Team
members are involved at all levels of our business. We strive to create a
Company-wide consciousness of “shared fate” by uniting the interests of team
members as closely as possible with those of our shareholders. One way we
reinforce this concept is through our Gainsharing program. Under Gainsharing,
as part of our annual planning process, each store and team receives a labor
budget expressed as a percentage of sales, with leverage built into the budgets
on an overall Company basis. When teams come in under budget due either to
higher sales or lower labor costs, a portion of the surplus is divided among
the team members to boost their hourly pay and a portion is set aside in a savings
pool. When teams are over budget (or in a labor deficit position), no
Gainsharing money is paid out. Instead, the overage is taken out of the team’s
savings pool or, in the absence of savings, paid back using future surpluses.
Rewarding our team members for increases in labor productivity, something they
can control, gives them a direct stake in the success of our business. We also
encourage stock ownership among team members through our broad-based team
member stock option plan, stock purchase plan and 401(k) plan.

 

Team Members

 

As
of September 26, 2010, we had approximately 58,300 team members, including
approximately 45,300 full-time, 10,700 part-time and 2,300 temporary team
members. Full-time team members accounted for approximately 81% of all permanent
positions at the end of fiscal year 2010 compared to 85% at the end of fiscal
year 2009. Voluntary turnover of full-time team members improved to 9% in
fiscal year 2010 from 12% in fiscal year 2009, which we believe is very low for
the food retailing industry and allows us to better serve our customers. All of
our team members are non-union, and we consider our team member relations to be
very good.

 

We
believe in empowering our team members to make Whole Foods Market not only a
great place to shop but a great place to build a career. Our salary and
benefits programs reflect our philosophy of egalitarianism. To ensure they are
perceived as fundamentally fair to all stakeholders, our books are open to our
team members, including our annual individual compensation report. We also have
a salary cap that limits the total cash compensation paid to any team member in
a calendar year to 19 times the average annual wage of all team members. In
addition, our co-founder and co-chief executive officer, John Mackey, has
voluntarily set his annual salary at $1 and receives no cash bonuses or stock
option awards.

 

7












Table of
Contents

 

All
of our full-time and part-time team members are eligible to receive stock
options through annual leadership grants or through service-hour grants once
they have accumulated 6,000 service hours (approximately three years of
employment). Approximately 92% of the equity awards granted under the Company’s
stock plan since its inception in 1992 have been granted to team members who
are not executive officers.

 

Team
members are encouraged to take an active role in choosing the benefits made
available by the Company by participating in a Company-wide benefits vote every
three years. Under the current plan voted on by team members, Whole Foods
Market provides health care at no cost to full-time team members who work 30 or
more hours per week and have worked a minimum of 10,000 service hours. In
addition, the Company provides Personal Wellness Accounts (“PWA”) of up to
$1,800 per year to help cover the cost of deductibles and other allowable
out-of-pocket health care expenses not covered by insurance.

 

For
the past 13 years, our team members have helped Whole Foods Market become one
of FORTUNE magazine’s “100 Best
Companies to Work for in America.” Ranking 18th overall and sixth among large
companies in 2010, we are one of only 13 companies to make the “100 Best” list
every year since its inception.

 

Competition

 

Food
retailing is a large, intensely competitive industry. Our competition varies
across the Company and includes but is not limited to local, regional, national
and international conventional and specialty supermarkets, natural foods
stores, warehouse membership clubs, smaller specialty stores, farmers’ markets,
and restaurants, each of which competes with us on the basis of store ambiance
and experience, product selection, quality, customer service, price or a combination
of these factors. Our commitment to natural and organic products, high quality
standards, emphasis on perishable product sales, and empowered team members who
focus on unparalleled customer service differentiate us from the competition
and have created a loyal core customer base. We believe our passionate support
of causes and leadership in areas important to our customers reinforce our
position as the authentic retailer of natural and organic foods, making us the
preferred choice for customers aspiring to a healthier lifestyle.

 

Marketing

 

We
spend much less on advertising and marketing than other supermarkets —
approximately 0.4% of our total sales in fiscal year 2010. Instead, we rely on
word-of-mouth recommendations and testimonials from our shoppers, and we
allocate our marketing budgets among national and regional programs and our
individual stores. We also connect and engage with our customers through social
media websites, in addition to e-newsletters and our own corporate website and
blog at www.wholefoodsmarket.com. Our stores spend most of their marketing
budgets on in-store marketing-related activities, including promotional signage
and events such as local farmers’ markets, taste fairs, classes, tours and
product samplings. We also dedicate resources to The  Whole Deal
in-store value guide. Our marketing support mirrors our business model, as
well as our commitment to the community and environment. Each store retains a
separate budget for making contributions to a variety of philanthropic and community
activities, fostering goodwill and developing a high profile with the
community. Contributions (including in-kind contributions of food) to
not-for-profit organizations amount to at least 5% of our after-tax profits
annually.

 

Social Media

 

Social
media provides us with a powerful way to communicate and interact with our
customers, giving us insight at both a local and global level as to how we are
viewed and what our customers want and expect from us. Currently, we have over
387,000 fans on Facebook and over 1.8 million followers on Twitter. In
addition, many of our stores have set up their own Facebook and Twitter
accounts.

 

The Whole Deal

 

We
launched our national “The Whole Deal” campaign in fiscal year 2008 to
emphasize the value of our product offerings. The program includes The Whole Deal value guide available in
all of our U.S. stores, which contains coupons, budget-conscious recipes,
money-saving tips and more; in-store Value Tours led by our “Value Gurus” to
help shoppers find the best deals in every department; and Sure Deal specials,
which highlight everyday pricing on high-quality products our customers want,
not discounts on overstocked or discontinued items. In fiscal year 2010, the
average basket containing a coupon from The
Whole Deal value guide was $66 and contained 20 items compared to
our overall average basket in identical stores which was $34 and contained
eight items.

 

Corporate Responsibility

 

We
seek to be a deeply responsible company in the communities where we do business
around the world, providing ethically-sourced, high-quality products and
transparent information to our customers, reducing our impact on the
environment, and actively participating in our local communities. We believe
that many customers are concerned about health and nutrition, food safety, fair
trade and the environment and choose to shop our stores for these reasons. “Farm-to-fork”
traceability allows them to make more informed purchasing decisions and “vote”
with their dollars.

 

8












Table of
Contents

 

Healthy Eating Education

 

We
are providing a revolutionary educational program in our stores to encourage
healthier lifestyles. Our new Health Starts
HereTM program consists of a simple approach to
eating, paired with practical tools and valuable resources, rooted in our four
principles:

 

·                  Whole FoodTM: Opt for whole, fresh, natural, organic, local and
seasonal foods that are not refined or highly processed.

·                  PLANT-STRONGTM: Simply put, eat mostly plants. Eat more
vegetables, fruits, legumes and beans, nuts, seeds and whole grains.

·                  Healthy Fat: Get your fats from plant
sources, such as nuts and avocados. Alternatively, if eating a diet that
includes animal products, choose leaner meats and seafood.

·                  Nutrient Dense: Choose foods that are rich in
nutrients when compared to their total caloric content, building menus that
ensure highly nutrient-dense meals.

 

The
program includes, among other things: in-store healthy eating centers to
display books and answer questions about healthy eating and cooking ideas;
store tours focused on making healthy eating choices; and a wide variety of
educational opportunities for team members, along with healthy eating classes
and networking opportunities for our customers. We believe our “Health Starts
Here” initiative will grow and evolve over time to become a key competitive
advantage for us, and by offering an  informed
approach to food as a source for improved health and vitality, we will help
change many more lives for the better.

 

Whole Planet Foundation®

 

Created
in 2005, the Whole Planet Foundation is an independent, non-profit organization
whose mission is to empower the poor through microcredit, with a focus on the
developing-world communities that supply our stores with product. Microcredit
is a system pioneered by Professor Muhammad Yunus, founder of the Grameen Bank
in Bangladesh and co-recipient of the 2006 Nobel Peace Prize. The philosophy
behind microcredit is to provide the poor access to credit without requiring
contracts or collateral, enabling them to lift themselves out of poverty by
creating or expanding home-based businesses. Whole Foods Market covers all
operating costs and the overhead budget for Whole Planet Foundation, funded in
part by the sale of products under the Company’s Whole Trade Guarantee program
as well as support from customers, vendors, and team members. As of September 26,
2010, the Whole Planet Foundation has partnered with various microfinance
institutions to support over $12.4 million in grants in 20 countries where the
Company sources products. Over 95,000 people (91% women) have received loans
which are being used for home-based businesses including poultry and pig farming,
agriculture, furniture making, tailoring, and selling handicrafts, homemade and
bakery-made foods, clothing and footwear. It is estimated that each woman
supports a family of five, which means our support is indirectly contributing
to the prosperity of approximately 477,000 individuals.

 

Green Mission®

 

We
are committed to supporting wise environmental practices and being a leader in
environmental stewardship. Over the years, we have purchased over 2.8 billion
megawatt hours of wind-based renewable energy, earning six Environmental
Protection Agency (“EPA”) Green Power awards from 2005 through 2010. We have 14
stores and one distribution center using or hosting rooftop solar systems,
three stores with fuel cells, and a commissary kitchen that soon will be using
biofuel from internally-generated waste cooking oil. We have made a commitment
to reduce energy consumption at all of our stores by 25% per square foot by
2015, and we build our new stores with the environment in mind, using green
building innovations whenever possible. Eleven of our stores have received
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (“LEED”) certification by the
U.S. Green Building Council, and two stores have earned Green Globes from the
Green Building Initiative.

 

We
discontinued the use of disposable plastic grocery bags at the checkouts in all
stores in 2008 and pay at least a nickel per reusable bag refund at the
checkout. We also were the first national retailer to provide Forest
Stewardship Council (“FSC”) certified paper bags originating from post-consumer
recycled fiber. Nearly all of our stores are involved in a recycling program,
and most participate in a composting program where food waste and compostable
paper goods are regenerated into compost. Additionally, in 2007 we introduced
fiber packaging in many of our prepared foods departments that is a compostable
alternative to traditional petroleum and wood- or tree-based materials. We also
are working to eliminate the use of Styrofoam in packing materials shipped to
our Company and in product packaging in our stores.

 

9












Table of
Contents

 

Government and Public Affairs

 

Our
stores are subject to various local, state, federal and international laws,
regulations and administrative practices affecting our business. We must comply
with provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, food labeling,
equal employment, minimum wages, licensing for the sale of food, and in many
stores, licensing for beer and wine or other alcoholic beverages.

 

The
manufacturing, processing, formulating, packaging, labeling and advertising of
products are subject to regulation by various federal agencies including the
Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the
Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”), the USDA and the EPA. The
composition and labeling of nutritional supplements are most actively regulated
by the FDA under the provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FFDC
Act”). The FFDC Act has been revised in recent years with respect to dietary
supplements by the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act and by the Dietary
Supplement Health and Education Act. We believe we are in compliance with all
product labeling requirements material to the Company.

 

Trademarks

 

Trademarks
owned by the Company or its subsidiaries include, but are not limited to: “Whole
Foods Market,” “365 Everyday Value,” “365 Organic Everyday Value,” “AFA,” “Allegro
Coffee Company,” “America’s Healthiest Grocery Store,” “Capers Community
Market,” “Bread & Circus,” “Fresh & Wild,” “Fresh Fields,” “Green
Mission,” “Harry’s Farmers Market,” “Health Starts Here,” “Ideal Market,” “Merchant
of Vino,” “Mrs. Gooch’s,” “Vine Buys,” “Wellspring,” “Whole Baby,” “The
Whole Deal,” “Whole Foods, Whole People, Whole Planet,” “Whole Kids,” “Whole
Kids Organic,” and “Whole Trade.” The Company or its subsidiaries also holds
registrations or applications, and maintains common law trademark rights for
stylized logos and brand names for products created by Allegro Coffee Company
and many of its branded products. In addition, the Company licenses certain
trademarks, including “PLANT-STRONG,” a trademark owned by Engine 2 for Life, LLC.

 

Available Information

 

Our
corporate website at www.wholefoodsmarket.com averages over 80,000 visitors
each day and provides detailed information about our Company, history, product
offerings, and store locations, with hundreds of recipes and a library of
information about environmental, legislative, health, food safety and product
quality issues. In addition, access to the Company’s corporate governance
policies and SEC filings, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly
reports on Form 10-Q, interactive data, current reports on Form 8-K, Section 16
filings, and all amendments to those reports, are available through our website
free of charge. As with our stores, the focus of our website is customer
service. We believe our website provides us with an opportunity to further our
relationships with customers, suppliers and investors; educate them on a
variety of issues; and improve our service levels.

 

We
have included our website and blog addresses only as an inactive textual
reference. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by
reference into this Report on Form 10-K.

 

Item 1A.   Risk Factors.

 

We
wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our
actual results to be materially different from those indicated by
forward-looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the
SEC, news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and
other written communications, as well as oral forward-looking statements made
from time to time by representatives of the Company. These risks and
uncertainties include the risk factors described below. The cautionary
statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business,
financial condition, operating results and cash flows to be materially
adversely affected. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update
forward-looking statements.

 

Economic Conditions

 

The
global economic crisis adversely impacted our business and financial results in
fiscal year 2009. Our results of operations may be materially impacted by
changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer confidence and
spending, including discretionary spending. There can be no assurance that
various governmental activities to stabilize the markets and stimulate the
economy will restore consumer confidence or change spending habits. Future
economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment
levels, business conditions, changes in housing market conditions, the
availability of credit, interest rates, tax rates, fuel and energy costs, the
impact of natural disasters or acts of terrorism, and other matters could
reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending to
lower-priced competitors.

 

Future Growth

 

Our
continued growth depends on our ability to increase sales in our identical
stores and our ability to open new stores. Our results of operations may be
materially impacted by fluctuations in our identical store sales. Our identical
store sales growth could be lower than our historical average for many reasons
including the impact of new and acquired stores entering into the 

 

10












Table of
Contents

 

identical
store base, the opening of new stores that cannibalize store sales in existing
areas, general economic conditions, increased competition, price changes in
response to competitive factors, possible supply shortages, and cycling against
any year of above-average sales results.

 

Our
growth strategy includes opening new stores in existing and new areas and
operating those stores successfully. Successful implementation of this strategy
is dependent on finding suitable locations, and we face competition from other
retailers for such sites. There can be no assurance that we will continue to
grow through new store openings. We may not be able to timely open new stores
or operate them successfully. Also, we may not be able to successfully hire and
train new team members or integrate those team members into the programs and
policies of the Company. We may not be able to adapt our distribution,
management information and other operating systems to adequately supply
products to new stores at competitive prices so that we can operate the stores
in a successful and profitable manner.

 

Competitive Environment

 

Our
competitors include but are not limited to local, regional, national and
international supermarkets, natural food stores, warehouse membership clubs, small
specialty stores and restaurants. Their businesses compete with us for
products, customers and locations. In addition, some are expanding more
aggressively in marketing a range of natural and organic foods. Some of these
potential competitors may have been in business longer or may have greater
financial or marketing resources than we do and may be able to devote greater
resources to sourcing, promoting and selling their products. As competition in
certain areas intensifies, our results of operations may be negatively impacted
through a loss of sales, reduction in margin from competitive price changes,
and/or greater operating costs such as marketing.

 

Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results

 

Our
quarterly operating results could fluctuate for many reasons, including losses
from new stores, variations in the mix of product sales, price changes in
response to competitive factors and a potential lack of customer acceptance,
foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, increases in store operating costs,
including commodity costs, that are either wholly or partially beyond our
control, possible supply shortages, general economic conditions, health care
costs, legal costs, insurance costs, extreme weather-related disruptions,
including hurricanes and earthquakes, and potential uninsured casualty losses
or other losses. In addition, our quarterly operating results and
quarter-to-quarter comparisons have been and may be impacted by the timing of
new store openings, construction and pre-opening expenses, the timing of
acquisitions, store closures and relocations, seasonality, and the range of
operating results generated from newly opened stores. Quarter-to-quarter
comparisons of results of operations have been and may be materially impacted
by the timing of new store openings.

 

Stock Price Volatility

 

In
fiscal year 2010, the closing market price per share of our common stock ranged
from $25.30 to $42.50. The market price of our common stock could be subject to
significant fluctuation in response to various market factors and events. These
market factors and events include variations in our sales and earnings results
and any failure to meet market expectations; changes in ratings and earnings
estimates by securities analysts; publicity regarding us, our competitors, or
the natural products industry generally; new statutes or regulations or changes
in the interpretation of existing statutes or regulations affecting the natural
products industry specifically; and sales of substantial amounts of common
stock in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur and
other factors. In addition, the stock market in recent years has experienced
broad price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the
operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations also
may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our cash flow from
the exercise of team member stock options may be adversely affected in the
future by fluctuations in the market price of our common stock.

 

Self-Insurance Plans

 

The
Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance plans to provide for
the potential liabilities for workers’ compensation, general liability,
property insurance, director and officers’ liability insurance, vehicle liability
and team member health care benefits. Liabilities associated with the risks
that are retained by the Company are estimated, in part, by considering
historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other
actuarial assumptions. Our results could be materially impacted by claims and
other expenses related to such plans if future occurrences and claims differ
from these assumptions and historical trends.

 

Product Liability

 

There
is increasing governmental scrutiny of and public awareness regarding food
safety. We believe that many customers choose to shop our stores because of
their interest in health, nutrition and food safety. We believe that our
customers hold us to a higher food safety standard than other supermarkets. The
real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in
government enforcement action, private litigation, product recalls and other
liabilities, the settlement or outcome of which might have a material adverse
effect on our sales and operations.

 

11












Table of
Contents

 

Brand Value

 

We
believe our Company has built an excellent reputation as a food retailer,
socially-responsible corporation and employer. We believe our continued success
depends on our ability to preserve, grow and leverage the value of our brand.
Brand value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities, and
even isolated incidents can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they
result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, which
can have an adverse impact on these perceptions and lead to adverse affects on
our business or team members.

 

Natural and Organic Products Availability

 

There
is no assurance that quality natural and organic products will be available to
meet our future needs. If other supermarkets significantly increase their
natural and organic product offerings or if new laws require the reformulation
of certain products to meet tougher standards, the supply of these products may
be constrained. To a certain degree, we are also dependent on our largest
supplier, United Natural Foods, Inc. (“UNFI”), which accounted for
approximately 27% of our total purchases in fiscal year 2010. Any significant
disruption in the supply of quality natural and organic products could have a
material impact on our overall sales and cost of goods sold.

 

Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

 

Our
total assets included long-lived assets totaling approximately $1.96 billion at
September 26, 2010. Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment
whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
of an asset may not be recoverable. Our impairment evaluations require use of
financial estimates of future cash flows. Application of alternative
assumptions could produce significantly different results. We may be required
to recognize impairments of long-lived assets based on future economic factors
such as unfavorable changes in estimated future undiscounted cash flows of an
asset group. Long-lived asset impairments could result in material charges that
would adversely affect our results of operations and capitalization.

 

Lease Obligations

 

The
majority of our stores, distribution centers, bakehouses and administrative
facilities are leased, with expiration dates ranging from 1 to 35 years. We are
subject to risks associated with our current and future real estate leases. Our
costs could increase because of changes in the real estate markets and supply
or demand for real estate sites. We generally cannot cancel our leases, so if
we decide to close a location, we may nonetheless be committed to perform our
obligations under the applicable lease including paying the base rent for the
remaining lease term. As each lease expires, we may fail to negotiate
renewals, either on commercially acceptable terms or any terms at all. As of September 26,
2010, we had 25 leased properties that are not being utilized in current
operations, with expiration dates ranging from 5 months to 19 years. The 25
leased properties represent acquired dormant locations, stores closed
post-acquisition, and stores closed due to relocation.

 

Perishable Products

 

We believe our stores more heavily emphasize perishable products than
other supermarket stores. Perishable products accounted for approximately 66.5%
of total sales at Whole Foods Market locations in fiscal year 2010. The Company’s
emphasis on perishable products may result in significant product inventory
losses in the event of extended power outages, natural disasters or other
catastrophic occurrences.

 

Legal Matters

 

From
time to time, we are party to legal proceedings, including matters involving
personnel and employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property,
acquisitions, and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business.
Our results could be materially impacted by the decisions and expenses related
to pending or future proceedings.

 

Accounting Standards and Estimates

 

Generally
accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements,
implementation guidelines, and interpretations for many aspects of our
business, such as accounting for insurance and self-insurance, inventories,
goodwill and intangible assets, derivatives, store closures, leases, income
taxes and share-based payments, are highly complex and involve subjective
judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in
underlying estimates, assumptions or judgments by our management could
significantly change or add significant volatility to our reported earnings
without a comparable underlying change in cash flow from operations.

 

Loss of Key Management

 

We
are dependent upon a number of key management and other team members. If we
were to lose the services of a significant number of key team members within a
short period of time, this could have a material adverse effect on our
operations. We do not maintain key person insurance on any team member. Our
continued success also is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain
qualified team members to meet our future growth needs. We face intense
competition for qualified team members, many of whom are subject to offers from
competing employers. We may not be able to attract and retain necessary team
members to operate our business.

 

12



 

 









Table of
Contents

 

Supplier Concentration Risk

 

UNFI
is our single largest third-party supplier, accounting for approximately 27% of
our total purchases in fiscal year 2010. During fiscal year 2010, we extended
our long-term relationship with UNFI as our primary supplier of dry grocery and
frozen food products through 2020 and added two of our regions to our
distribution arrangement beginning in fiscal year 2011. Due to this concentration
of purchases from a single third-party supplier, the cancellation of our
distribution arrangement or the disruption, delay or inability of UNFI to
deliver product to our stores may materially and adversely affect our business,
financial condition or results of operations while we establish alternative
distribution channels.

 

Widespread Health Epidemic

 

The
Company’s business could be severely impacted by a widespread regional,
national or global health epidemic. Our stores are a place where customers come
together, interact and learn while at the same time discovering the many joys
of eating and sharing food. A widespread health epidemic may cause customers to
avoid public gathering places or otherwise change their shopping behaviors.
Additionally, a widespread health epidemic could also adversely impact our
business by disrupting production and delivery of products to our stores and by
impacting our ability to appropriately staff our stores.

 

Indebtedness

 

As
of November 19, 2010, we had $390 million remaining on our term loan
maturing August 28, 2012 and we may incur additional debt in the future. A
significant portion of our future cash flow from operating activities may be
dedicated to the repayment on our indebtedness. Our indebtedness could limit
our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital
expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions or other purposes in the
future. There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our debt service
obligations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt
service obligations, we may be required to seek additional financing in the
debt or equity markets, refinance or restructure all or a portion of our
indebtedness, sell selected assets or reduce or delay planned capital or
operating expenditures. If we fail to comply with our debt covenants, we will
be in default, in which case there can be no assurance that we would be able to
cure the default, receive waivers from our lenders, amend the loan agreements or
refinance the debt.

 

Labor Relations

 

All
of our team members are non-union, and we consider our team member relations to
be very good. From time to time, however, unions have attempted to organize all
or part of our team member base at certain stores and non-retail facilities.
Responding to such organization attempts is distracting to management and team
members and may have a negative financial impact on a store, facility or the
Company as a whole.

 

Governmental Regulation

 

The
Company is subject to various international, federal, state and local laws,
regulations and administrative practices affecting our business, and we must
comply with provisions regulating health and sanitation standards, food
labeling, equal employment, minimum wages, and licensing for the sale of food
and, in some stores, alcoholic beverages. Our new store openings could be
delayed or prevented or our existing stores could be impacted by difficulties
or failures in our ability to obtain or maintain required approvals or
licenses. Changes in existing laws or implementation of new laws, regulations
and practices (e.g., health care reform and/or card check legislation) could
have a significant impact on our business.

 

The
USDA’s Organic Rule facilitates interstate commerce and the marketing of
organically produced food and provides assurance to our customers that such
products meet consistent, uniform standards. Compliance with this rule could
pose a significant burden on some of our suppliers, which may cause a
disruption in some of our product offerings.

 

We
cannot predict the nature of future laws, regulations, interpretations or
applications, or determine what effect either additional government regulations
or administrative orders, when and if promulgated, or disparate federal, state
and local regulatory schemes would have on our business in the future. They
could, however, require the reformulation of certain products to meet new
standards, the recall or discontinuance of certain products not able to be
reformulated, additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the
properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling and/or
scientific substantiation. Any or all of such requirements could have an
adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

 

International Operations

 

Though
only 3.0% of our total sales in fiscal year 2010, the Company’s international
operations are subject to certain risks of conducting business abroad,
including fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in regulatory
requirements, and changes or uncertainties in the economic, social and
political conditions in the Company’s geographic areas, among other things.

 

13












Table of Contents

 

Intellectual Property

 

We
rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law and internal
procedures and nondisclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property.
There can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights can be
successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or
challenged. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our
products may be produced or sold do not protect our intellectual property
rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Failure to protect
our proprietary information could have a material adverse effect on our
business, results of operations and financial condition.

 

Income Taxes

 

Our
future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by the earnings mix
being lower than historical results in states or countries where we have
lower statutory rates and higher than historical results in states or
countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of
our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or
interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to periodic audits and
examinations by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other state and local taxing
authorities. The Company has been notified that the IRS will open an audit
covering fiscal years 2008 and 2007. With limited exceptions, the Company is no
longer subject to federal income tax examinations for fiscal years prior to
2007, and to state and local examinations for fiscal years prior to 2001. Our
results could be materially impacted by the determinations and expenses related
to these and other proceedings by the IRS and other state and local taxing
authorities.

 

Information Systems

 

We
rely extensively on information systems for point-of-sale processing in our
stores, supply chain, financial reporting, human resources and various other
processes and transactions. Our information systems are subject to damage or
interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures,
computer viruses, security breaches, including breaches of our transaction
processing or other systems that could result in the compromise of confidential
customer data, catastrophic events, and usage errors by our team members. If
our systems are breached, damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to
make significant investments to fix or replace them, suffer interruptions in
our operations, face costly litigation, and our reputation with our customers
may be harmed. Any material interruption in our information systems may have a
material adverse effect on our business or results of operations.

 

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

 

The
Company’s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting. An internal control system, no
matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not
absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further,
the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource
constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their
costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all internal control systems,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal control
over financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial
results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose
us to litigation or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The
Company’s management concluded that its internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of September 26, 2010. See “Item 9A. Controls
and Procedures — Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting.”

 

Item 1B