Item 1A below.For certain other financial information concerning our business segments and foreign and domestic operations, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.For information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see Notes 10 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.For information on product recalls, see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.Executive Officers of the RegistrantThe following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on February 8, 2012, the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers:Name Office First Becamean ExecutiveOfficer AgeJeff M. Fettig Director, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 1994 54Michael A. Todman Director and President, Whirlpool International 2001 54Marc R. Bitzer President, Whirlpool North America 2006 47Bracken Darrell President, Whirlpool EMEA and Executive Vice President of Whirlpool Corporation 2009 49Jose A. Drummond Executive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Latin America 2008 47David T. Szczupak Executive Vice President, Global Product Organization 2008 56Larry M. Venturelli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 2012 51Roy W. Templin Executive Vice President, Finance 2004 51Each of the executive officers named above was elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2012 and until his successor is chosen and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served Whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for Mr. Szczupak and Mr. Darrell. Prior to joining Whirlpool in July 2008, Mr. Szczupak for the previous two years served as Chief Operating Officer of Dura Automotive Systems, Inc., and before joining Dura in 2006, worked for Ford Motor Company for 22 years in various leadership roles. Mr. Darrell, prior to joining Whirlpool in September 2008, for the previous six years held various executive positions with The Procter & Gamble Company, the most recent being President of Braun, a Procter & Gamble division.Available InformationFinancial results and investor information (including Whirlpool’s Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports) are accessible at Whirlpool’s website: www.whirlpoolcorp.com — click on “Investors” and then click on “SEC Filings.” Copies of our Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.5ITEM 1A.RISK FACTORS.This report contains statements referring to Whirlpool that are not historical facts and are considered “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements, which are intended to take advantage of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, are based on current projections about operations, industry conditions, financial condition and liquidity. Words that identify forward-looking statements include words such as “may,” “could,” “will,” “should,” “possible,” “plan,” “predict,” “forecast,” “potential,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “project,” “intend,” “believe,” “may impact,” “on track,” and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance, a merger, or our businesses. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. Those statements are not guarantees and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following:Risks Relating to Our BusinessWe face intense competition in the major home appliance industry and failure to successfully compete may negatively affect our business and financial performance. Each of our operating segments operates in a highly competitive business environment and faces intense competition from a growing number of competitors, many of which have strong consumer brand equity. Several of these competitors, such as Electrolux, LG, Samsung, Bosch Siemens,  Panasonic  and General Electric are large, well-established companies, many ranking among the Global Fortune 150, and have demonstrated a commitment to success in the global market. Moreover, the United States customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. Competition in the global appliance market is based on a number of factors including selling price, product features and design, performance, innovation, energy efficiency, quality, cost, distribution, and financial incentives, such as cooperative advertising, co-marketing funds, sales person incentives, volume rebates and terms. In the past, our competitors, especially global competitors with low-cost sources of supply and/or highly protected home markets outside the United States, have aggressively priced their products and/or introduced new products to increase market share. If we are unable to successfully compete in this highly competitive environment, our business and financial performance could be negatively affected.The loss of or substantial decline in sales to any of our key trade customers, which include Lowe's, Sears, Home Depot, Best Buy, Casas Bahia, Ikea, major buying groups, and builders, could adversely affect our financial performance. We sell to a sophisticated customer base of large trade customers that have significant leverage as buyers over their suppliers. Most of our products are not sold through long-term contracts, which facilitates the trade customers' ability to change volume among suppliers. As the trade customers continue to become larger, they may seek to use their position to improve their profitability by various means, including improved efficiency, lower pricing, and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to meet their demands requirements, our volume growth and financial results could be negatively affected. The loss of, or substantial decline in volume of, sales to Lowe's, Sears, Home Depot, Best Buy, Casas Bahia, Ikea, major buying groups or builders, or any other trade customers to which we sell a significant amount of products, could adversely affect our financial performance. Additionally, the loss of market share or financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, by these trade customers could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect demand for our products. A number of economic factors, including, but not limited to, gross domestic product, availability of consumer credit, interest rates, consumer sentiment and debt levels, retail trends, housing starts, sales of existing homes, the level of mortgage refinancing and defaults, and foreign currency exchange rates, generally affect demand for our products. Higher unemployment rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, and higher tax rates adversely affect demand. A decline in economic activity and conditions in the United States, Brazil, Europe and the other markets in which we operate has had an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations over the past few years, and future declines and adverse conditions could have a similar adverse affect. We face inventory and other asset risk. We record a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value. We also review our long-lived and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we determine that impairment has occurred, we record a write-down to adjust carrying value to fair value. Although we believe our inventory and other asset related provisions are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that, given the unpredictable pace of product obsolescence and business conditions with trade customers and in general, we will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. Such charges could materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.6Risks associated with our international operations may decrease our revenues and increase our costs. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived approximately 49% of our net sales from outside of North America (which includes Canada and Mexico), including 27% in Latin America, 17% in Europe and 5% in Asia. We expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant percentage of our net sales in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, we face numerous risks associated with conducting international operations, any of which could negatively affect our financial performance. These risks include the following: •changes in foreign country regulatory requirements;•various import/export restrictions and the availability of required import/export licenses;•imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers;•political, legal, and economic instability and uncertainty;•foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations;•changes in foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations of tax laws;•inflation;•work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products;•government price controls;•extended payment terms and the inability to collect accounts receivable; and•the inability to repatriate cash.Additionally, as a U.S. corporation, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage to foreign companies that are not subject to similar regulations. Additionally, any determination that we have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on us.Terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, natural disasters, and epidemics could affect our domestic and international sales, disrupt our supply chain, and impair our ability to produce and deliver our products. Such events could directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers, both in the United States and elsewhere.The recent European debt crisis could have a material adverse effect on our European operations.  The recent European debt crisis and related European financial restructuring efforts have contributed to instability in the global credit markets and may cause the value of the Euro to further deteriorate. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in Europe, the United States or other key markets remain uncertain or deteriorate further, the value of the Euro could decline and the credit market may weaken. The general financial instability in the stressed European countries could have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the European Union. If this were to occur, it could adversely affect our European customers and suppliers and in turn may have a materially adverse effect on our European business and results of operations.An inability to effectively execute and manage our business objectives could adversely affect our financial performance. The highly competitive nature of our industry requires that we effectively execute and manage our business including our global operating platform initiative. Our global operating platform initiative aims to reduce costs, expand margins, drive productivity and quality improvements, and accelerate our rate of innovation. Our inability to effectively control costs and drive productivity improvements could affect our profits. In addition, our inability to provide high-quality, innovative products could adversely affect our ability to maintain or increase our sales, which it could negatively affect our revenues and overall financial performance. Additionally, our success is dependent on anticipating changes in customer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. Our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully and timely identify, develop, manufacture, market, and sell new or improved products in these changing markets. Fluctuations and volatility in the cost of raw materials and purchased components could adversely affect our operating results. The primary materials used to produce and manufacture our products are steel, oil, plastic resins, and base metals, such as aluminum, copper, zinc, and nickel. On a global and regional basis, the sources and prices of those materials and components are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate, and other unforeseen circumstances. Material cost inflation is expected to be approximately $300 million to $350 million in 2012, largely driven by increases in the cost of base metals, such as copper, aluminum, zinc and nickel, as well as component parts and steel. Continued significant increases in these and other costs in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition and performance. We are subject to a variety of litigation and legal compliance risks, including litigation concerning products, intellectual property rights, taxes, environmental matters, commercial matters and compliance with competition laws and sales 7and trading practices. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. We estimate loss contingencies and establish reserves as required by generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings, volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and other factors may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded and could result in an adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which a liability would be recognized or cash flows for the period in which amounts would be paid. Actual results may significantly vary from our reserves.Product liability or product recall costs could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We are subject to the risk of exposure to product liability and product recall claims if any of our products are alleged to have resulted in injury to persons or damage to property. In the event that any of our products prove to be defective, we may need to recall and/or redesign such products. In addition, any claim or product recall that results in significant adverse publicity, particularly if those claims or recalls cause customers to question the safety or reliability of our products, may negatively affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We do maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance may not be adequate to cover losses related to product liability claims brought against us. We may also be involved in certain class action and other litigation, for which no insurance is available. Product liability insurance could become more expensive and difficult to maintain and may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, we do not maintain any product recall insurance, so any product recall we are required to initiate could have a significant impact on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows.We regularly engage in investigations of potential quality and safety issues as part of our ongoing effort to deliver quality products to our customers. We are currently investigating a limited number of potential quality and safety issues, and as necessary, we undertake to effect repair or replacement of appliances. Actual costs of these issues and any future issues depend upon several factors, including the number of consumers who respond to a particular recall, repair and administrative costs, whether the cost of any corrective action is borne initially by Whirlpool or the supplier, and, if initially borne by Whirlpool, whether we will be successful in recovering our costs from the supplier. The actual costs incurred as a result of these issues and any future issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We are subject to, and could be further subject to, governmental investigations or actions by other third parties. We are subject to various federal, foreign and state laws, including antitrust laws, violations of which can involve civil or criminal sanctions. Government regulators in various jurisdictions are currently investigating alleged pricing practices in the global compressor industry, including our Embraco compressor business headquartered in Brazil. In addition, we have been named as a defendant in  related class action lawsuits in various jurisdictions, which seek damages in connection with the pricing of compressors, and additional lawsuits may be filed. The impact of these and other investigations and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, liquidity and results of operations.Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services, and brands. We consider our intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our processes may diminish our competitiveness.We have applied for patent protection in the United States and other jurisdictions with respect to certain innovations and new products, product features, and processes. We cannot be assured that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or any other jurisdiction will approve any of our patent applications. Additionally, the patents we own could be challenged, invalidated, or others could design around our patents and the patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide us with any meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Further, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business or contemplate doing business in the future do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as United States law. As a result, these factors could weaken our competitive advantage with respect to our products, services, and brands in foreign jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our financial performance.Moreover, while we do not believe that any of our products infringe on the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, others may assert intellectual property rights that cover some of our technology, brands, products, or services. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products.8The ability of suppliers to deliver parts, components and manufacturing equipment to our manufacturing facilities, including our ability to manufacture without disruption, could affect our global business performance. We use a wide range of materials and components in the global production of our products and use numerous suppliers to provide materials and components. Because we generally do not have guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers and some key parts may be available only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, we are subject to supply and pricing risks. In addition, certain proprietary component parts used in some of our products are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. We would be unable to obtain these proprietary component parts for an indeterminate period of time if these single-source suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these components to us, which could adversely affect our product sales and operating results. Our operations and operations at suppliers’ facilities are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, work stoppages, fire, earthquake, flooding, or other natural disasters. Such disruption could interrupt our ability to manufacture certain products. Any significant disruption could negatively impact our revenue and earnings performance.Significant differences between actual results and estimates of the amount of future funding for our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs, and significant changes in funding assumptions or significant increases in funding obligations due to regulatory changes, could adversely affect our financial results. We have both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans that cover certain employees in North America, Europe, Asia and Brazil. We also have unfunded postretirement health care benefit plans for eligible retired employees. The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), the Pension Protection Act and the Internal Revenue Code govern the funding obligations for our U.S. pension plans, which are our principal pension plans. Our U.S. defined benefit plans were frozen as of December 31, 2006 for substantially all participants. For 2007 and beyond, Whirlpool employees may participate in an enhanced defined contribution plan.As of December 31, 2011, our projected benefit obligations under our pension plans and postretirement health care benefit programs exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $1,990 million ($1,502 million of which was attributable to pension plans and $488 million of which was attributable to postretirement health care benefits). Estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding obligations of these pension plans and postretirement health care benefit plans are based on various assumptions. These assumptions include discount rates, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are subject to change based on changes in interest rates on high quality bonds, stock and bond market returns, and health care cost trend rates. Significant differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect our postretirement obligations and related future contributions and expenses. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security, which may materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition and operating results. We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. Information technology system failures could disrupt our operations by causing transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, delays or cancellation of customer orders, the loss of customers, impediments to the manufacture or shipment of products, other business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach.In addition, we have outsourced certain information technology support services and administrative functions, such as payroll processing and benefit plan administration, to third-party service providers and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If the service providers to which we outsource these functions do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers. Depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale.Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets.A deterioration in labor relations could adversely impact our global business. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 68,000 employees. Of those employees, various labor unions with separate collective bargaining agreements represent approximately 59%. Our current collective bargaining agreements generally have three year terms. Due to the large number of collective bargaining agreements, we are periodically in negotiations with certain of the unions representing our employees. We may be subject to employee work stoppages that, if such events were to occur, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Further, we cannot be assured that we will be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on the same or similar terms, or at all, which may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations.Our ability to attract, develop and retain executives and other qualified employees is crucial to our results of operations and future growth. We depend upon the continued services and performance of our key executives, senior management and skilled personnel, particularly our professionals with experience in our business and operations and the home appliance industry. 9We cannot be sure that any of these individuals will continue to be employed by us. A lengthy period of time is required to hire and develop replacement personnel when skilled personnel depart Whirlpool. An inability to hire, develop and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could materially hinder our business by, for example, delaying our ability to bring new products to market or impairing the success of our operations.Changes in the legal and regulatory environment could limit our business activities, increase our operating costs, reduce demand for our products or result in litigation. The conduct of our businesses, and the production, distribution, sale, advertising, safety, transportation and use of many of our products, are subject to various laws and regulations administered by federal, state and local governmental agencies in the United States, as well as to foreign laws and regulations administered by government entities and agencies in markets in which we operate. These laws and regulations may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of political, economic or social events. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policy and the related interpretations may alter the environment in which we do business and, therefore, may impact our results or increase our costs or liabilities. In addition, we incur and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with various laws and regulations, especially relating to, protection of the environment, human health and safety and energy efficiency. These types of costs could adversely affect our financial performance. Additionally, we could be subjected to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of product production for failing to comply with various laws and regulations, including environmental regulations. Cleanup obligations that might arise at any of our manufacturing sites or the imposition of more stringent environmental laws in the future could adversely affect us.Foreign currency fluctuations may affect our financial performance. We generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in the exchange rates of functional currencies of those operations affect the U.S. dollar value of our revenue and earnings from our foreign operations. We use currency forwards and options to manage our foreign currency transaction exposures. We cannot completely eliminate our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations, which may adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, because our consolidated financial results are reported in dollars, if we generate sales or earnings in other currencies, the translation of those results into dollars can result in a significant increase or decrease in the amount of those sales or earnings. Finally, the amount of legal contingencies related to foreign operations may fluctuate significantly based upon changes in the exchange rates and usually cannot be managed with currency forwards, options or other arrangements. Such fluctuations in exchange rates can significantly increase or decrease the amount of any legal contingency related to our foreign operations and make it difficult to assess and manage the potential exposure.ITEM 1B