Item 1A—Risk
Factors

Risks
Relating to our Business and the Insurance Industry

This section describes the material risks
affecting the Group’s business. These risks could materially affect the Group’s
business, its revenues, operating income, net income, net assets and liquidity
and capital resources and, accordingly should be read in conjunction with any
forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Premiums and Commissions—We do not control
the premiums on which our commissions are based, and volatility or declines in
premiums may seriously undermine our profitability.

We derive most of our revenues from
commissions and fees for brokerage and consulting services. We do not determine
insurance premiums on which our commissions are generally based. Premiums are
cyclical in nature and may vary widely based on market conditions. From the
late 1980s through late 2000, insurance premium rates generally declined as a
result of a number of factors, including the expanded underwriting capacity of
insurance carriers; consolidation of both insurance intermediaries and
insurance carriers; and increased competition among insurance carriers. During
2004, we saw a rapid transition from a “hard” market, with premium rates stable
or increasing, to a “soft” market, with premium rates falling in most markets.
These rate declines were most pronounced in the property and casualty market,
with rates 


 13 






falling between
10% and 30% by year end. Rates have continued to decline in most sectors
through 2005 and 2006, with the exception of catastrophe-exposed markets.

In addition, as traditional risk-bearing
insurance carriers continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to
non-affiliated agents or brokers such as ourselves, those insurance carriers
may seek to reduce further their expenses by reducing the commission rates
payable to those insurance agents or brokers. The reduction of these commission
rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may
significantly undermine our profitability.

Regulation—We are subject to insurance
industry regulation worldwide. If we fail to comply with regulatory
requirements, we may not be able to conduct our business.

Many of our activities are subject to
regulatory supervision in virtually all the countries in which we are based or
our activities are undertaken. Failure to comply with some of these regulations
could lead to disciplinary action, including requiring clients to be
compensated for loss, the imposition of penalties and the revocation of our
authorization to operate. In addition, changes in legislation or regulations
and actions by regulators, including changes in administration and enforcement
policies, could from time to time require operational improvements or
modifications at various locations which could result in higher costs or hinder
our ability to operate our business.

Regulation—We are subject to a number of
investigations and legal proceedings concerning contingent compensation, other
industry practices and certain conduct, which, if determined unfavorably to us,
could adversely affect our financial results.

We have been subject to investigations by
the departments of insurance or attorneys general of over 20 states, Canada and
Australia concerning, among other things, arrangements pursuant to which
insurers compensated insurance brokers for distribution and other services
provided to insurers known as contingent compensation, bid rigging, tying and
other possible violations of law, including violations of fiduciary duty,
securities laws and antitrust laws.

In April 2005, we resolved the New
York investigation by entering into an Assurance of Discontinuance, or NY AOD,
with the New York Attorney General and the New York Superintendent of
Insurance, pursuant to which we have paid $50 million to eligible
customers. We also agreed to continue, and further implement, certain business
reforms. These reforms include an agreement not to accept contingent
compensation and an undertaking to disclose to customers any compensation we
will receive in connection with providing policy placement services to the
customer. We also resolved a similar investigation by the Minnesota Attorney
General by entering into an Assurance of Discontinuance pursuant to which we
paid $1 million to Minnesota customers and implemented the business
reforms described in the NY AOD. While we are fully cooperating with the other
investigations, including subpoenas and requests for information, we cannot
predict at this time how or when those investigations will be resolved.

Since August 2004, various plaintiffs
have filed purported class actions, in New York, Illinois, California, New
Jersey and Florida, under a variety of legal theories, including state tort,
contract, fiduciary duty and statutory theories, and federal antitrust and RICO
theories. Other than a federal suit in Illinois that was voluntarily dismissed
by the plaintiff in May 2005, all of the federal actions have been
consolidated into two actions in federal court in New Jersey. One of the
consolidated actions addresses employee benefits insurance, while the other
consolidated action addresses all other lines of insurance. In addition to the
two federal actions, we were also named as a defendant in purported class
actions in state courts in Florida and Massachusetts. In June 2006 the
plaintiff in the Massachusetts state action voluntarily dismissed its complaint
with prejudice. Both consolidated federal actions and the remaining state
action name various insurance carriers and insurance brokerage firms, including
us, as defendants. The allegations relate to the practices and conduct that has
been the subject of the investigations described 


 14 






above,
including allegations that the brokers are breaching their duties to their
clients by entering into contingent compensation agreements with insufficient
disclosure to clients as well as allegations of bid rigging, tying and the
improper use of affiliated wholesalers. The complaints also allege the
existence of a conspiracy among the insurance carriers and brokers, and the
federal court complaints allege violations of the federal RICO statute. We
intend to vigorously defend ourselves against these claims. The outcomes of
these lawsuits, however, including any losses or other payments that may occur
as a result, cannot be predicted at this time.

The ultimate outcome of all matters
referred to above cannot be ascertained and liabilities in indeterminate
amounts may be imposed on us. It is thus possible that future results of
operations or cash flows for any particular quarterly or annual period could be
materially affected by an unfavorable resolution of these matters. In addition,
even if we do not experience significant monetary costs, there may be adverse
publicity associated with these matters that will result in reputational harm
to the insurance brokerage industry in general or to us in particular that may
adversely affect our business.

Claims, Lawsuits and Other Proceedings—Our
business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be
materially adversely affected by errors and omissions and the outcome of
certain actual and potential claims, lawsuits and proceedings.

We are subject to various actual and
potential claims, lawsuits and other proceedings relating principally to alleged
errors and omissions in connection with the placement of insurance and
reinsurance in the ordinary course of business. Because we often assist our
clients with matters, including the placement of insurance coverage and the
handling of related claims, involving substantial amounts of money, errors and
omissions claims against us may arise which allege our potential liability for
all or part of the amounts in question. Claimants can seek large damage awards
and these claims can involve potentially significant defense costs. Such
claims, lawsuits and other proceedings could, for example, include allegations
of damages for our employees or sub-agents improperly failing to place coverage
or notify claims on behalf of clients, to provide insurance carriers with
complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to
appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients on a fiduciary basis. Errors and omissions claims,
lawsuits and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business are
covered in part by professional indemnity or other appropriate insurance. The
terms of this insurance vary by policy year and self-insured risks have
increased significantly over recent years. In respect of self-insured risks, we have established provisions against these items
which we believe to be adequate in the light of current information and legal
advice, and we adjust such provisions from time to time according to
developments.

While most of the errors and omissions
claims made against us have, subject to our self-insured deductibles, been
covered by our professional indemnity insurance, our business, results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity may be adversely affected if in
the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or
there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. Our ability to
obtain professional indemnity insurance in the amounts and with the deductibles
we desire in the future may be adversely impacted by general developments in the
market for such insurance or our own claims experience. In addition, claims,
lawsuits and other proceedings may harm our reputation or divert management
resources away from operating our business.

The principal actual or potential claims,
lawsuits and proceedings to which we are currently subject, including but not
limited to errors and omissions claims, are (1) claims relating to
services provided by one of our UK subsidiaries, Willis Faber (Underwriting
Management) Limited, to another subsidiary, Sovereign Marine & General
Insurance Company Limited (in Scheme of Arrangement) (“Sovereign’’), that was
engaged in insurance underwriting prior to 1991 as well as certain third-party
insurance companies; (2) claims with respect to our placement of property
and casualty insurance for a number of entities which were directly impacted by
the September 11, 2001 destruction of New York’s World Trade 


 15 






Center complex;
(3) the regulatory and other proceedings relating to contingent
compensation arrangements referred to above; (4) potential claims arising
out of various legal proceedings between reinsurers, reinsureds and their
reinsurance brokers relating to personal accident excess of loss reinsurance
placements for the years 1993 to 1998; and (5) potential damages arising
out of a federal district court action, commenced in 2001, on behalf of a class
of approximately 200 present and former female officer and officer equivalent
employees for alleged discrimination against them on the basis of their gender.

Put and Call Arrangements—We have entered
into significant put and call arrangements which may require us to pay
substantial amounts to purchase shares in one of our associates. Those payments
would reduce our liquidity and short-term cash flow.

In connection with many of our investments
in our associates, we retain rights to increase our ownership percentages over
time and, in some cases, the existing owners also have a right to put their
shares to us. The put arrangement in place for shares of our associate, Gras
Savoye, may require us to pay substantial amounts to purchase those shares,
which could decrease our liquidity and short-term cash flow.

The rights under the put arrangement may be
exercised through 2011. If fully exercised, we would be required to buy shares
of Gras Savoye, other than those held by its management, possibly increasing
our ownership interest from 38% to 90%. Management shareholders of Gras Savoye,
representing approximately 10% of the outstanding shares, do not have general
put rights before 2011, but have certain put rights on their death, disability
or retirement. Payments in connection with management put rights would not have
exceeded $64 million if those rights had been fully exercised at December 31,
2006.

From 2007 onwards the incremental 52% of
Gras Savoye may be put to us at a price determined by a contractual formula
based on earnings and revenue, which at December 31, 2006 would have
amounted to approximately $337 million. The shareholders may put their
shares individually at any time during the put period and the amounts we may
have to pay in connection with the put arrangements may significantly exceed
this estimate.

Competition—Competition in our industry is
intense, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose market share
and our business may be materially adversely affected.

We face competition in all fields in which
we operate, based on global capability, product breadth, innovation, quality of
service and price. We compete with Marsh & McLennan and Aon, the two
other providers of global risk management services, as well as with numerous
specialist, regional and local firms. Although Marsh & McLennan and
Aon, along with us, have agreed to implement certain business reforms, many
specialist, regional and local firms have not agreed to these business reforms.
These firms are continuing to accept contingent compensation and are not
disclosing the compensation received in connection with providing policy
placement services to the customer. If we are unable to compete effectively
against these competitors, we will suffer lower revenue, reduced operating
margins and loss of market share.

Competition for business is intense in all
our business lines and in every insurance market, and the other two providers
of global risk management services have substantially greater market share than
we do. Competition on premium rates has also exacerbated
the pressures caused by a continuing reduction in demand in some classes of
business. For example, insureds have been retaining a greater proportion of
their risk portfolios than previously. Industrial and commercial companies have
been increasingly relying upon their own subsidiary insurance companies,
known as captive insurance companies, self-insurance pools, risk retention
groups, mutual insurance companies and other mechanisms for funding their
risks, rather than buying insurance. Additional competitive pressures arise
from the entry of new market participants, such as banks, accounting firms and
insurance carriers themselves, offering risk management or transfer services.


 16 






Dependence on Key Personnel—The loss of our
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer or a number of our senior management or a
significant number of our brokers could significantly impede our financial
plans, growth, marketing and other objectives.

The loss of our Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer or a number of our senior management or a significant number
of our brokers could significantly impede our financial plans, growth,
marketing and other objectives. Our success depends to a substantial extent not
only on the ability and experience of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer,
Joseph J. Plumeri and a number of our senior management; but also on the
individual brokers and teams that service our clients and maintain client
relationships. The insurance and reinsurance brokerage industry has in the past
experienced intense competition for the services of leading individual brokers
and brokerage teams, and we have lost key individuals and teams to competitors
in the past. We believe that our future success will depend in part on our
ability to attract and retain additional highly skilled and qualified personnel
and to expand, train and manage our employee base. We may not continue to be
successful in doing so, because the competition for qualified personnel in our
industry is intense.

International Operations—Our significant
non-US operations, particularly those in the United Kingdom, expose us to
exchange rate fluctuations and various risks that could impact our business.

A significant portion of our operations is
conducted outside the United States. Accordingly, we are subject to legal,
economic and market risks associated with operating in foreign countries,
including devaluations and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition
of limitations on conversion of foreign currencies into pounds sterling or
dollars or remittance of dividends and other payments by foreign subsidiaries;
hyperinflation in certain foreign countries; imposition or increase of
investment and other restrictions by foreign governments; and the requirement
of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws.

We report our operating results and financial condition in US dollars.
Our US operations earn revenue and incur expenses primarily in dollars. In the
United Kingdom, however, we earn revenue in a number of different currencies,
but expenses are almost entirely incurred in pounds sterling. Outside the
United States and the United Kingdom, we predominantly generate revenue and
expenses in the local currency. The table gives an approximate analysis of
revenues and expenses by currency in 2006.




 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Pounds
  Sterling
  
  
   
  
  
  US
  Dollars
  
  
   
  
  
  Other
  Currencies
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Revenues
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  13
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  55
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  32
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Expenses
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  33
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  42
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  25
  
  
  %
  
  
   
  
 




 

Because of devaluations and fluctuations in
currency exchange rates or the imposition of limitations on conversion of
foreign currencies into dollars, we are subject to currency translation
exposure on the profits of our operations, in addition to economic exposure.
Furthermore, the mismatch between pounds sterling revenues and expenses creates
an exchange exposure. As the pound sterling strengthens, the US dollars
required to be translated into pounds sterling to cover the net sterling
expenses increase, which then causes our results to be negatively impacted.
Given these facts, the strength of the pounds sterling relative to the US
dollar has in the past had a material negative impact on our reported results.
This risk could have a material adverse effect on our business financial
condition, cash flow and results of operations in the future.

Generally, our policy
is to convert into pounds sterling all revenues arising in currencies other
than US dollars together with sufficient US dollar revenues to fund the
remaining pounds sterling expenses. Outside the United Kingdom, only those cash
flows necessary to fund mismatches between revenues and expenses are converted
into local currency. Amounts remitted to the United Kingdom are usually converted
into pounds sterling and the currency exposures managed by entering into
forward exchange 


 17 






contracts.
Generally, it is our policy to hedge at least 25% of the next 12 months’
exposure in significant currencies. We do not hedge exposures beyond three
years.

Item 1B