Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS/RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
    FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF
    THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995


 


    Certain matters contained in this report include
    “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
    section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended. These statements discuss our expected future results
    based on current and pending business operations. We make these
    forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor
    protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995.


 


    All statements, other than statements of historical facts,
    included in this report that address activities, events or
    developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or
    may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements.
    Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of
    words such as “anticipates,” “believes,”
    “could,” “may,” “should,”
    “continues,” “estimates,”
    “expects,” “forecasts,” “might,”
    “planned,” “potential,”
    “projects,” “scheduled” or similar
    expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among
    others, statements regarding:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Amounts and nature of future capital expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    Expansion and growth of our business and operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Financial condition and liquidity;




 



     
        • 

    
    Business strategy;




 



     
        • 

    
    Estimates of proved gas and oil reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    Reserve potential;




 



     
        • 

    
    Development drilling potential;




 



     
        • 

    
    Cash flow from operations or results of operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Seasonality of certain business segments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Natural gas and NGL prices and demand.





 


    Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions,
    uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or
    results to be materially different from those stated or implied
    in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these
    results are beyond our ability to control or project. Specific
    factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in
    the forward-looking statements include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Availability of supplies (including the uncertainties inherent
    in assessing, estimating, acquiring and developing future
    natural gas reserves), market demand, volatility of prices, and
    the availability and costs of capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    Inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign exchange, and
    general economic conditions (including the recent economic
    slowdown and the disruption of global credit markets and the
    impact of these events on our customers and suppliers);




 



     
        • 

    
    The strength and financial resources of our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Development of alternative energy sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    The impact of operational and development hazards;




 



     
        • 

    
    Costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government
    regulations (including proposed climate change legislation),
    environmental liabilities, litigation, and rate proceedings;






    
    19



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Our costs and funding obligations for defined benefit pension
    plans and other postretirement benefit plans;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the current geopolitical situation;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks related to strategy and financing, including restrictions
    stemming from our debt agreements, future changes in our credit
    ratings and the availability and cost of credit;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks associated with future weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of terrorism and




 



     
        • 

    
    Additional risks described in our filings with the SEC.





 


    Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our
    actual results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly
    rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any
    obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to
    announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the
    forward-looking statements to reflect future events or
    developments.


 


    In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors
    listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to
    change from those statements of intention set forth in this
    report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our
    results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and
    without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our
    assumptions or otherwise.


 


    Because forward-looking statements involve risks and
    uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in
    addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to
    differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
    statements. These factors are described in the following section.


 



    RISK
    FACTORS


 


    You should carefully consider the following risk factors in
    addition to the other information in this report. Each of these
    factors could adversely affect our business, operating results,
    and financial condition as well as adversely affect the value of
    an investment in our securities.


 



    Risks
    Inherent to our Industry and Business


 



    The
    long-term financial condition of our natural gas transportation
    and midstream businesses is dependent on the continued
    availability of natural gas supplies in the supply basins that
    we access, demand for those supplies in our traditional markets,
    and the prices of and market demand for natural
    gas.


 


    The development of the additional natural gas reserves that are
    essential for our gas transportation and midstream businesses to
    thrive requires significant capital expenditures by others for
    exploration and development drilling and the installation of
    production, gathering, storage, transportation and other
    facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered
    to our pipeline systems. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory
    limitations, or the lack of available capital for these projects
    could adversely affect the development and production of
    additional reserves, as well as gathering, storage, pipeline
    transportation and import and export of natural gas supplies,
    adversely impacting our ability to fill the capacities of our
    gathering, transportation and processing facilities.


 


    Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins
    with access to our pipeline will also naturally decline over
    time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these wells
    may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which
    production from these reserves declines may be greater than
    anticipated. Additionally, the competition for natural gas
    supplies to serve other markets could reduce the amount of
    natural gas supply for our customers. Accordingly, to maintain
    or increase the contracted capacity or the volume of natural gas
    transported on our pipeline and cash flows associated with the
    transportation of natural gas, our customers must compete with
    others to obtain adequate supplies of natural gas. In addition,
    if natural gas prices in the supply basins connected to our
    pipeline systems are higher than prices in other natural gas
    producing regions, our ability to compete with other
    transporters may be negatively impacted on a short-term basis,
    as well as with respect to our long-term recontracting
    activities. If new supplies of natural gas are not obtained to
    replace the natural decline in volumes from existing supply
    areas, or if natural gas supplies are diverted to



    
    20



Table of Contents




    serve other markets, the overall volume of natural gas
    transported and stored on our system would decline, which could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations. In addition, new LNG import
    facilities built near our markets could result in less demand
    for our gathering and transportation facilities.


 



    Significant
    prolonged changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and
    demand and cause a termination of our transportation and storage
    contracts or a reduction in throughput on our
    system.


 


    Higher natural gas prices over the long term could result in a
    decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in our
    long-term transportation and storage contracts or throughput on
    our Gas Pipelines’ systems. Also, lower natural gas prices
    over the long term could result in a decline in the production
    of natural gas resulting in reduced contracts or throughput on
    our Gas Pipelines’ systems. As a result, significant
    prolonged changes in natural gas prices could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    Significant
    capital expenditures are required to replace our
    reserves.


 


    Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require
    substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded
    our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows
    from operations and debt and equity issuances. Future cash flows
    are subject to a number of variables, including the level of
    production from existing wells, prices of natural gas, and our
    success in developing and producing new reserves. If our cash
    flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital
    expenditure budget, we may not be able to access additional bank
    debt, issue debt or equity securities or access other methods of
    financing on an economic basis to meet our capital expenditure
    budget. As a result, our capital expenditure plans may have to
    be adjusted.


 



    Failure
    to replace reserves may negatively affect our
    business.


 


    The growth of our Exploration & Production business
    depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional
    natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our
    proved reserves generally decline when reserves are produced,
    unless we conduct successful exploration or development
    activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or
    both. We may not be able to find, develop or acquire additional
    reserves on an economic basis. If natural gas prices increase,
    our costs for additional reserves would also increase,
    conversely if natural gas prices decrease, it could make it more
    difficult to fund the replacement of our reserves.


 



    Exploration
    and development drilling may not result in commercially
    productive reserves.


 


    Our past success rate for drilling projects should not be
    considered a predictor of future commercial success. We do not
    always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our
    drilling operations. The new wells we drill or participate in
    may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion
    of our investment in wells we drill or participate in. The cost
    of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain,
    and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a
    project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells
    or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves
    to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs.
    Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or
    canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, drilling rigs and equipment, skilled labor,
    capital or transportation;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unexpected drilling conditions or problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulations and regulatory approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes or anticipated changes in energy prices; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Compliance with environmental and other governmental
    requirements.






    
    21



Table of Contents



 



    Estimating
    reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties.
    Negative revisions to reserve estimates, oil and gas prices or
    assumptions as to future natural gas prices may lead to
    decreased earnings, losses or impairment of oil and gas assets,
    including related goodwill.


 


    Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating
    underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured
    in an exact manner. Reserves that are “proved
    reserves” are those estimated quantities of crude oil,
    natural gas, and natural gas liquids that geological and
    engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are
    recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing
    economic and operating conditions, but should not be considered
    as a guarantee of results for future drilling projects.


 


    The process relies on interpretations of available geological,
    geophysical, engineering and production data. There are numerous
    uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved
    reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing
    of developmental expenditures, including many factors beyond the
    control of the producer. The reserve data included in this
    report represent estimates. In addition, the estimates of future
    net revenues from our proved reserves and the present value of
    such estimates are based upon certain assumptions about future
    production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be
    correct.


 


    Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic
    conditions in existence during the period of assessment. Changes
    to oil and gas prices in the markets for such commodities may
    have the impact of shortening the economic lives of certain
    fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable
    reserves on such fields, which reduces proved property reserve
    estimates.


 


    If negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved
    reserves were to occur, it would have the effect of increasing
    the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the
    affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in
    losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization
    expense. These revisions, as well as revisions in the
    assumptions of future cash flows of these reserves, may also be
    sufficient to trigger impairment losses on certain properties
    which would result in a non-cash charge to earnings. The
    revisions could also possibly affect the evaluation of
    Exploration & Production’s goodwill for
    impairment purposes. At December 31, 2008, we had
    approximately $1 billion of goodwill on our balance sheet.


 



    Certain
    of our services are subject to long-term, fixed-price contracts
    that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform
    such services exceeds the revenues received from such
    contracts.


 


    Our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses provide
    some services pursuant to long-term, fixed price contracts. It
    is possible that costs to perform services under such contracts
    will exceed the revenues we collect for our services. Although
    most of the services provided by our interstate gas pipelines
    are priced at cost-based rates that are subject to adjustment in
    rate cases, under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and
    a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at
    a “negotiated rate” that may be above or below the
    FERC regulated cost-based rate for that service. These
    “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject
    to adjustment for increased costs that could be produced by
    inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities
    being used to perform the services.


 



    We
    depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our
    revenues. The loss of any of these key customers or the loss of
    any contracted volumes could result in a decline in our
    business.


 


    Our Gas Pipelines rely on a limited number of customers for a
    significant portion of their revenues. The loss of even a
    portion of our contracted volumes, as a result of competition,
    creditworthiness, inability to negotiate extensions or
    replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We are
    exposed to the credit risk of our customers.


 


    We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers in the
    ordinary course of our business. Generally our customers are
    rated investment grade, are otherwise considered credit worthy,
    are required to make pre-payments, or provide security to
    satisfy credit concerns. However, we cannot predict to what
    extent our business would be impacted by deteriorating
    conditions in the economy, including declines in our
    customers’ creditworthiness. While



    
    22



Table of Contents




    we monitor these situations carefully and attempt to take
    appropriate measures to protect ourselves, it is possible that
    we may have to write down or write off doubtful accounts. Such
    write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating
    results for the period in which they occur, and, if significant,
    could have a material adverse effect on our operating results
    and financial condition.


 



    The
    failure of new sources of natural gas production or liquid
    natural gas (LNG) import terminals to be successfully developed
    in North America could increase natural gas prices and reduce
    the demand for our services.


 


    New sources of natural gas production in the United States and
    Canada, particularly in areas of shale development are expected
    to become an increasingly significant component of future
    natural gas supplies in North America. Additionally, increases
    in LNG supplies are expected to be imported through new LNG
    import terminals, particularly in the Gulf Coast region. If
    these additional sources of supply are not developed, natural
    gas prices could increase and cause consumers of natural gas to
    turn to alternative energy sources, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    Our
    drilling, production, gathering, processing, storage and
    transporting activities involve numerous risks that might result
    in accidents, and other operating risks and
    hazards.


 


    Our operations are subject to all the risks and hazards
    typically associated with the development and exploration for,
    and the production and transportation of oil and gas. These
    operating risks include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fires, blowouts, cratering and explosions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Uncontrollable releases of oil, natural gas or well fluids;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pollution and other environmental risks;




 



     
        • 

    
    Natural disasters;




 



     
        • 

    
    Aging infrastructure;




 



     
        • 

    
    Damage inadvertently caused by third party activity, such as
    operation of construction equipment; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or
    those of other energy companies.





 


    These risks could result in loss of human life, personal
    injuries, significant damage to property, environmental
    pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses
    to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we
    maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and
    losses, and only at levels we believe to be appropriate. The
    location of certain segments of our pipelines in or near
    populated areas, including residential areas, commercial
    business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level
    of damages resulting from these risks. In spite of our
    precautions, an event such as those described above could cause
    considerable harm to people or property, and could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by
    insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further
    result in loss of service available to our customers. Such
    circumstances, including those arising from maintenance and
    repair activities, could result in service interruptions on
    segments of our pipeline infrastructure. Potential customer
    impacts arising from service interruptions on segments of our
    pipeline infrastructure could include limitations on the
    pipeline’s ability to satisfy customer requirements,
    obligations to provide reservations charge credits to customers
    in times of constrained capacity, and solicitation of existing
    customers by others for potential new pipeline projects that
    would compete directly with existing services. Such
    circumstances could materially impact our ability to meet
    contractual obligations and retain customers, with a resulting
    negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We do
    not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously
    harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the ability of the
    insurers we do use to satisfy our claims.


 


    We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our
    business, including environmental accidents that might occur. In
    addition, we do not maintain business interruption insurance in
    the type and amount to cover all possible risks of loss. We
    currently maintain excess liability insurance with limits of
    $610 million per occurrence and in the



    
    23



Table of Contents




    aggregate annually and a deductible of $2 million per
    occurrence. This insurance covers us and our affiliates for
    legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury,
    personal injury or property damage, including resulting loss of
    use to third parties. This excess liability insurance includes
    coverage for sudden and accidental pollution liability for full
    limits, with the first $135 million of insurance also
    providing gradual pollution liability coverage for natural gas
    and NGL operations. Pollution liability coverage excludes:
    release of pollutants subsequent to their disposal; release of
    substances arising from the combustion of fuels that result in
    acidic deposition, and testing, monitoring,
    clean-up,
    containment, treatment or removal of pollutants from property
    owned, occupied by, rented to, used by or in the care, custody
    or control of us or our affiliates.


 


    We do not insure onshore underground pipelines for physical
    damage, except at river crossings and at certain locations such
    as compressor stations. We maintain coverage of
    $300 million per occurrence for physical damage to onshore
    assets and resulting business interruption caused by terrorist
    acts. We also maintain coverage of $100 million per
    occurrence for physical damage to offshore assets caused by
    terrorist acts, except for our Devils Tower spar where we
    maintain terrorism limits of $300 million per occurrence
    for property damage and $105 million per occurrence for
    resulting business interruption. Also, all of our insurance is
    subject to deductibles. If a significant accident or event
    occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could adversely
    affect our operations and financial condition. We may not be
    able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we
    desire at reasonable rates. Changes in the insurance markets
    subsequent to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and
    hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav and Ike have impacted the
    availability of certain types of coverage at reasonable rates,
    and we may elect to self insure a portion of our asset
    portfolio. We cannot assure you that we will in the future be
    able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would
    otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that
    the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large
    deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all
    potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not
    fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 


    In addition, certain insurance companies that provide coverage
    to us, including American International Group, Inc., have
    experienced negative developments that could impair their
    ability to pay any of our potential claims. As a result, we
    could be exposed to greater losses than anticipated and may have
    to obtain replacement insurance, if available, at a greater cost.


 



    Execution
    of our capital projects subjects us to construction risks,
    increases in labor and materials costs and other risks that may
    adversely affect financial results.


 


    A significant portion of our growth in the gas pipeline and
    midstream business areas is accomplished through the
    construction of new pipelines, processing and storage
    facilities, as well as the expansion of existing facilities.
    Construction of these facilities is subject to various
    regulatory, development and operational risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by
    regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    The availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to
    complete expansion projects;




 



     
        • 

    
    Potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and
    regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent
    a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of
    the project;




 



     
        • 

    
    Impediments on our ability to acquire rights-of-way or land
    rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    The ability to construct projects within estimated costs,
    including the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or
    increased costs of equipment, materials, labor, or other factors
    beyond our control, that may be material; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The ability to access capital markets to fund construction
    projects.





 


    Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding,
    delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. As a
    result, new facilities may not achieve expected investment
    return, which could adversely affect results of operations,
    financial position or cash flows.



    
    24



Table of Contents





    Our
    costs and funding obligations for our defined benefit pension
    plans and costs for our other post-retirement benefit plans are
    affected by factors beyond our control.


 


    We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all
    of our U.S. employees and other post-retirement benefit
    plans covering certain eligible participants. The timing and
    amount of our funding requirements under the defined benefit
    pension plans depend upon a number of factors we control,
    including changes to pension plan benefits as well as factors
    outside of our control, such as asset returns, interest rates
    and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors
    that can significantly increase our funding requirements could
    have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition.
    The amount of expenses recorded for our defined benefit pension
    plans and other post-retirement benefit plans is also dependent
    on changes in several factors, including market interest rates
    and the returns on plan assets. Significant changes in any of
    these factors may adversely impact our future results of
    operations.


 



    Two of
    our subsidiaries act as the respective general partners of two
    different publicly-traded limited partnerships, Williams
    Partners L.P. and Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. As such, those
    subsidiaries’ operations may involve a greater risk of
    liability than ordinary business operations.


 


    One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of WPZ and
    another subsidiary of ours acts as the general partner of WMZ.
    Each of these subsidiaries that act as the general partner of a
    publicly-traded limited partnership may be deemed to have
    undertaken fiduciary obligations with respect to the limited
    partnership of which it serves as the general partner and to the
    limited partners of such limited partnership. Activities
    determined to involve fiduciary obligations to other persons or
    entities typically involve a higher standard of conduct than
    ordinary business operations and therefore may involve a greater
    risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interests is
    found to exist. Our control of the general partners of two
    different publicly traded partnerships may increase the
    possibility of claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including
    claims brought due to conflicts of interest (including conflicts
    of interest that may arise (i) between the two
    publicly-traded partnerships as well as (ii) between a
    publicly-traded partnership, on the one hand, and its general
    partner and that general partner’s affiliates, including
    us, on the other hand). Any liability resulting from such claims
    could be material.


 



    Potential
    changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our
    financial results and disclosures in the future, which might
    change the way analysts measure our business or financial
    performance.


 


    Regulators and legislators continue to take a renewed look at
    accounting practices, financial disclosures, companies’
    relationships with their independent registered public
    accounting firms, and retirement plan practices. We cannot
    predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in accounting
    regulations or practices in general with respect to public
    companies or the energy industry or in our operations
    specifically. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (FASB) or the SEC could enact new accounting standards
    that might impact how we are required to record revenues,
    expenses, assets, liabilities and equity.


 



    Our
    risk measurement and hedging activities might not be effective
    and could increase the volatility of our results.


 


    Although we have systems in place that use various methodologies
    to quantify commodity price risk associated with our businesses,
    these systems might not always be followed or might not always
    be effective. Further, such systems do not in themselves manage
    risk, particularly risks outside of our control, and adverse
    changes in energy commodity market prices, volatility, adverse
    correlation of commodity prices, the liquidity of markets,
    changes in interest rates and other risks discussed in this
    report might still adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and
    balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks
    have been identified.


 


    In an effort to manage our financial exposure related to
    commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered into
    contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and
    operations. In these hedging activities, we have used
    fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts,
    futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the
    over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no
    single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks
    present in a given contract. For example, a forward contract
    that would be effective in hedging commodity price volatility
    risks would not hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or
    performance risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue
    to exist. While we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk
    within



    
    25



Table of Contents




    guidelines established by our credit policy, we may not be able
    to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash
    flows and results of operations could be impacted by
    counterparty default.


 


    Our use of hedging arrangements through which we attempt to
    reduce the economic risk of our participation in commodity
    markets could result in increased volatility of our reported
    results. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses) of
    derivatives that qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133,
    “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities,” (SFAS 133) to the extent that such
    hedges are not fully effective in offsetting changes to the
    value of the hedged commodity, as well as changes in the fair
    value of derivatives that do not qualify or have not been
    designated as hedges under Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards (SFAS) 133, must be recorded in our income. This
    creates the risk of volatility in earnings even if no economic
    impact to the Company has occurred during the applicable period.


 


    The impact of changes in market prices for natural gas on the
    average gas prices received by us may be reduced based on the
    level of our hedging strategies. These hedging arrangements may
    limit our potential gains if the market prices for natural gas
    were to rise substantially over the price established by the
    hedge. In addition, our hedging arrangements expose us to the
    risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including
    instances in which:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Production is less than expected;




 



     
        • 

    
    The hedging instrument is not perfectly effective in mitigating
    the risk being hedged; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The counterparties to our hedging arrangements fail to honor
    their financial commitments.





 



    Our
    investments and projects located outside of the United States
    expose us to risks related to the laws of other countries, and
    the taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates,
    political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These
    risks might delay or reduce our realization of value from our
    international projects.


 


    We currently own and might acquire
    and/or
    dispose of material energy-related investments and projects
    outside the United States. The economic and political conditions
    in certain countries where we have interests or in which we
    might explore development, acquisition or investment
    opportunities present risks of delays in construction and
    interruption of business, as well as risks of war,
    expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions
    or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax
    policy, that are greater than in the United States. The
    uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign
    countries in which we develop or acquire projects or make
    investments could make it more difficult to obtain non-recourse
    project financing or other financing on suitable terms, could
    adversely affect the ability of certain customers to honor their
    obligations with respect to such projects or investments and
    could impair our ability to enforce our rights under agreements
    relating to such projects or investments. Recent events in
    certain South American countries, particularly the continued
    threat of nationalization of certain energy-related assets in
    Venezuela, could have a material negative impact on our results
    of operations. We may not receive adequate compensation, or any
    compensation, if our assets in Venezuela are nationalized.


 


    Operations and investments in foreign countries also can present
    currency exchange rate and convertibility, inflation and
    repatriation risk. In certain situations under which we develop
    or acquire projects or make investments, economic and monetary
    conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert
    to U.S. dollars our earnings denominated in foreign
    currencies. In addition, risk from fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates can arise when our foreign subsidiaries expend or
    borrow funds in one type of currency, but receive revenue in
    another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can
    reduce our ability to meet expenses, including debt service
    obligations. We may or may not put contracts in place designed
    to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks. We have some
    exposures that are not hedged and which could result in losses
    or volatility in our results of operations.


 



    Our
    operating results for certain segments of our business might
    fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.


 


    Revenues from certain segments of our business can have seasonal
    characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for
    natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a
    result, our overall operating results in the future might
    fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Demand for natural
    gas and other fuels could vary



    
    26



Table of Contents




    significantly from our expectations depending on the nature and
    location of our facilities and pipeline systems and the terms of
    our natural gas transportation arrangements relative to demand
    created by unusual weather patterns. Additionally, changes in
    the price of natural gas could benefit one of our business
    units, but disadvantage another. For example, our
    Exploration & Production business may benefit from
    higher natural gas prices, and Midstream, which uses gas as a
    feedstock, may not.


 



    Risks
    Related to Strategy and Financing


 



    Our
    debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may adversely
    affect our ability to operate our business.


 


    Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict
    or limit, among other things, our ability to create liens
    supporting indebtedness, sell assets, make certain
    distributions, and incur additional debt. In addition, our debt
    agreements contain, and those we enter into in the future may
    contain, financial covenants and other limitations with which we
    will need to comply. Our ability to comply with these covenants
    may be affected by many events beyond our control, and we cannot
    assure you that our future operating results will be sufficient
    to comply with the covenants or, in the event of a default under
    any of our debt agreements, to remedy that default.


 


    Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements
    and other related transactional documents could result in events
    of default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the
    lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under a
    particular facility to be immediately due and payable and
    terminate all commitments, if any, to extend further credit. An
    event of default or an acceleration under one debt agreement
    could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another
    debt agreement. Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could
    have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise
    from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. If
    an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements
    cross-default, and the lenders under the affected debt
    agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt
    outstanding to us, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay
    amounts outstanding under such debt agreements.


 


    Our ability to repay, extend or refinance our existing debt
    obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on
    our operating performance, which will be affected by general
    economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory,
    business and other factors, many of which are beyond our
    control. Our ability to refinance existing debt obligations or
    obtain future credit will also depend upon the current
    conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit
    generally. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations
    or obtain future credit on favorable terms, if at all, we could
    be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek
    additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to
    obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all.


 



    Events
    in the global credit markets created a shortage in the
    availability of credit and have led to credit market
    volatility.


 


    In 2008, global credit markets experienced a shortage in overall
    liquidity and a resulting disruption in the availability of
    credit. While we cannot predict the occurrence of future
    disruptions or the duration of the current volatility in the
    credit markets, we believe cash on hand and cash provided by
    operating activities, as well as availability under our existing
    financing agreements will provide us with adequate liquidity.
    However, our ability to borrow under our existing financing
    agreements, including our bank credit facilities, could be
    negatively impacted if one or more of our lenders fail to honor
    its contractual obligation to lend to us. Continuing volatility
    or additional disruptions, including the bankruptcy or
    restructuring of certain financial institutions, may adversely
    affect the availability of credit already arranged and the
    availability and cost of credit in the future.


 



    The
    continuation of recent economic conditions, including
    disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect
    our results of operations.


 


    The slowdown in the economy and the significant disruptions and
    volatility in global credit markets have the potential to
    negatively impact our businesses in many ways. Included among
    these potential negative impacts are reduced demand and lower
    prices for our products and services, increased difficulty in
    collecting amounts owed to us by our customers and a reduction
    in our credit ratings (either due to tighter rating standards or
    the negative impacts described above), which could result in
    reducing our access to credit markets, raising the cost of such
    access or requiring us to provide additional collateral to our
    counterparties.



    
    27



Table of Contents





    A
    downgrade of our current credit ratings could impact our
    liquidity, access to capital and our costs of doing business,
    and maintaining current credit ratings is within the control of
    independent third parties.


 


    A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our cost of
    borrowing and would require us to post additional collateral
    with third parties, negatively impacting our available
    liquidity. Our ability to access capital markets would also be
    limited by a downgrade of our credit rating and other
    disruptions. Such disruptions could include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Economic downturns;




 



     
        • 

    
    Deteriorating capital market conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Declining market prices for natural gas, natural gas liquids and
    other commodities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or
    those of other energy companies; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The overall health of the energy industry, including the
    bankruptcy or insolvency of other companies.





 


    Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when
    assigning credit ratings. The analysis includes a number of
    criteria including, but not limited to, business composition,
    market and operational risks, as well as various financial
    tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria
    for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make
    changes to those criteria from time to time. Our corporate
    family credit rating and the credit ratings of Transco and
    Northwest Pipeline were raised to investment grade in 2007 by
    Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Corporation, and
    Fitch Ratings, Ltd., and our senior unsecured debt ratings were
    raised to investment grade by Moody’s and Fitch. No
    assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies will
    continue to assign us investment grade ratings even if we meet
    or exceed their criteria for investment grade ratios or that our
    senior unsecured debt rating will be raised to investment grade
    by all of the credit rating agencies.


 



    Prices
    for natural gas liquids, natural gas and other commodities are
    volatile and this volatility could adversely affect our
    financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to
    maintain existing businesses.


 


    Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the
    value of certain segments of our businesses depend primarily
    upon the prices we receive for NGLs, natural gas, or other
    commodities, and the differences between prices of these
    commodities. Price volatility can impact both the amount we
    receive for our products and services and the volume of products
    and services we sell. Prices affect the amount of cash flow
    available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow
    money or raise additional capital.


 


    The markets for NGLs, natural gas and other commodities are
    likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices
    might result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and
    demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and other
    factors that are beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas,
    NGLs, petroleum, and related commodities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
    Countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of consumer demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    The price and availability of other types of fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    The availability of pipeline capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    Supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation
    disruptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The price and level of foreign imports;






    
    28



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;




 



     
        • 

    
    Volatility in the natural gas markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    The overall economic environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    The credit of participants in the markets where products are
    bought and sold; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The adoption of regulations or legislation relating to climate
    change.





 



    We
    might not be able to successfully manage the risks associated
    with selling and marketing products in the wholesale energy
    markets.


 


    Our portfolio of derivative and other energy contracts may
    consist of wholesale contracts to buy and sell commodities,
    including contracts for natural gas, NGLs and other commodities
    that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash
    throughout the United States. If the values of these contracts
    change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate or
    cannot manage, it could negatively affect our results of
    operations. In the past, certain marketing and trading companies
    have experienced severe financial problems due to price
    volatility in the energy commodity markets. In certain instances
    this volatility has caused companies to be unable to deliver
    energy commodities that they had guaranteed under contract. If
    such a delivery failure were to occur in one of our contracts,
    we might incur additional losses to the extent of amounts, if
    any, already paid to, or received from, counterparties. In
    addition, in our businesses, we often extend credit to our
    counterparties. Despite performing credit analysis prior to
    extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we might not
    be able to collect amounts owed to us. If the counterparty to
    such a transaction fails to perform and any collateral that
    secures our counterparty’s obligation is inadequate, we
    will suffer a loss. A general downturn in the economy and
    tightening of global credit markets could cause more of our
    counterparties to fail to perform than we have expected.


 



    Risks
    Related to Regulations that Affect our Industry


 



    Our
    natural gas sales, transmission, and storage operations are
    subject to government regulations and rate proceedings that
    could have an adverse impact on our results of
    operations.


 


    Our interstate natural gas sales, transportation, and storage
    operations conducted through our Gas Pipelines business are
    subject to the FERC’s rules and regulations in accordance
    with the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. The
    FERC’s regulatory authority extends to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate
    commerce;




 



     
        • 

    
    Rates, operating terms and conditions of service, including
    initiation and discontinuation of services;




 



     
        • 

    
    Certification and construction of new facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Accounts and records;




 



     
        • 

    
    Depreciation and amortization policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    Relationships with marketing functions within Williams involved
    in certain aspects of the natural gas business; and




 



     
        • 

    
    Market manipulation in connection with interstate sales,
    purchases or transportation of natural gas.





 


    Regulatory actions in these areas can affect our business in
    many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues,
    decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs and
    otherwise altering the profitability of our business. Regulatory
    decisions could also affect our costs for compression,
    processing and dehydration of natural gas, which could have a
    negative effect on our results of operations.


 


    The FERC has taken certain actions to strengthen market forces
    in the natural gas pipeline industry that have led to increased
    competition throughout the industry. In a number of key markets,
    interstate pipelines are now facing



    
    29



Table of Contents




    competitive pressure from other major pipeline systems, enabling
    local distribution companies and end users to choose a
    transportation provider based on considerations other than
    location.


 



    Costs
    of environmental liabilities and complying with existing and
    future environmental regulations, including those related to
    greenhouse gas emissions, could exceed our current
    expectations.


 


    Our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation
    pursuant to a variety of federal, provincial, state and
    municipal laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations
    impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and
    obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use,
    storage, extraction, transportation, treatment and disposal of
    hazardous substances and wastes, in connection with spills,
    releases and emissions of various substances into the
    environment, and in connection with the operation, maintenance,
    abandonment and reclamation of our facilities.


 


    Compliance with environmental laws requires significant
    expenditures, including for clean up costs and damages arising
    out of contaminated properties. In addition, the possible
    failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations might
    result in the imposition of fines and penalties. We are
    generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the
    environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether
    acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose
    and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with
    certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be
    required to provide indemnification against, environmental
    liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may
    not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be
    required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance
    could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to
    shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities,
    which might cause us to incur losses. Although we do not expect
    that the costs of complying with current environmental laws will
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or
    results of operations, no assurance can be given that the costs
    of complying with environmental laws in the future will not have
    such an effect.


 


    Legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change
    create financial risk. The United States Congress and certain
    states have for some time been considering various forms of
    legislation related to greenhouse gas emissions. Increased
    public awareness and concern may result in more state, regional
    and/or
    federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the emission of
    greenhouse gases. Numerous states have announced or adopted
    programs to stabilize and reduce greenhouse gases and similar
    federal legislation has been introduced in both houses of
    Congress. Our pipeline, exploration and production and gas
    processing facilities may be subject to regulation under climate
    change policies introduced at either the state or federal level
    within the next few years. There is a possibility that, when and
    if enacted, the final form of such legislation could increase
    our costs of compliance with environmental laws. If we are
    unable to recover or pass through all costs related to complying
    with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations. To the extent financial markets view climate change
    and emissions of greenhouse gases as a financial risk, this
    could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital.


 


    We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible
    expenditures related to environmental conditions based on
    current laws and regulations and current interpretations of
    those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or
    regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our
    assumptions may change. Our regulatory rate structure and our
    contracts with customers might not necessarily allow us to
    recover capital costs we incur to comply with the new
    environmental regulations. Also, we might not be able to obtain
    or maintain from time to time all required environmental
    regulatory approvals for certain development projects. If there
    is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory
    approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the
    operation of our facilities could be prevented or become subject
    to additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse
    consequences to our results of operations.


 



    Competition
    in the markets in which we operate may adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 


    We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses,
    and additional competitors may enter our markets. Other
    companies with which we compete may be able to respond more
    quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies, or
    to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion or
    refurbishment of their facilities than we can. In addition,
    current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions
    or have greater



    
    30



Table of Contents




    financial resources than we do, which could affect our ability
    to make investments or acquisitions. There can be no assurance
    that we will be able to compete successfully against current and
    future competitors and any failure to do so could have a
    material adverse effect on our businesses and results of
    operations.


 



    We may
    not be able to maintain or replace expiring natural gas
    transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates or on a
    long-term basis.


 


    Our primary exposure to market risk for our Gas Pipelines occurs
    at the time the terms of their existing transportation and
    storage contracts expire and are subject to termination.
    Although none of our Gas Pipelines’ material contracts are
    terminable in 2009, upon expiration of the terms we may not be
    able to extend contracts with existing customers to obtain
    replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term
    basis. The extension or replacement of existing contracts
    depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The level of existing and new competition to deliver natural gas
    to our markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    The growth in demand for natural gas in our markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Whether the market will continue to support long-term firm
    contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    Whether our business strategy continues to be successful;




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of competition for natural gas supplies in the
    production basins serving us; and




 



     
        • 

    
    The effects of state regulation on customer contracting
    practices.





 


    Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our
    existing contracts may have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    If
    third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our
    pipeline and facilities become unavailable to transport natural
    gas, our revenues could be adversely affected.


 


    We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that
    provide delivery options to and from our natural gas pipeline
    and storage facilities. Because we do not own these third-party
    pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation is not
    within our control. If these pipelines or other facilities were
    to become unavailable due to repairs, damage to the facility,
    lack of capacity, increased credit requirements or rates charged
    by such pipelines or facilities or for any other reason, our
    ability to operate efficiently and continue shipping natural gas
    to end-use markets could be restricted, thereby reducing our
    revenues. Further, although there are laws and regulations
    designed to encourage competition in wholesale market
    transactions, some companies may fail to provide fair and equal
    access to their transportation systems or may not provide
    sufficient transportation capacity for other market
    participants. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key
    pipeline interconnect causing a material reduction in volumes
    transported on our pipeline or stored at our facilities could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Our
    businesses are subject to complex government regulations. The
    operation of our businesses might be adversely affected by
    changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or
    implementation, or the introduction of new laws or regulations
    applicable to our businesses or our customers.


 


    Existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws
    and regulations might be adopted or become applicable to us, our
    facilities or our customers, and future changes in laws and
    regulations might have a detrimental effect on our business.
    Specifically, the Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation
    Commission has enacted new rules effective in April 2009
    which will increase our costs of permitting and environmental
    compliance and may affect our ability to meet our anticipated
    drilling schedule and therefore may have a material effect on
    our results of operations.


 



    Legal
    and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the
    energy industry and capital markets have adversely affected our
    business and may continue to do so.


 


    Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry and of the
    capital markets has resulted in increased regulation being
    either proposed or implemented. Such scrutiny has also resulted
    in various inquiries, investigations



    
    31



Table of Contents




    and court proceedings in which we are a named defendant. Both
    the shippers on our pipelines and regulators have rights to
    challenge the rates we charge under certain circumstances. Any
    successful challenge could materially affect our results of
    operations.


 


    Certain inquiries, investigations and court proceedings are
    ongoing and continue to adversely affect our business as a
    whole. We might see these adverse effects continue as a result
    of the uncertainty of these ongoing inquiries and proceedings,
    or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state
    regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we
    cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether
    these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings
    against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other
    regulatory action, including legislation, which might be
    materially adverse to the operation of our business and our
    revenues and net income or increase our operating costs in other
    ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters against us
    arising out of our ongoing and discontinued operations including
    environmental matters, disputes over gas measurement, royalty
    payments, shareholder class action suits, regulatory appeals and
    similar matters might result in adverse decisions against us.
    The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in
    the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or
    at all by insurance.


 



    Risks
    Related to Employees, Outsourcing of Non-Core Support
    Activities, and Technology


 



    Institutional
    knowledge residing with current employees nearing retirement
    eligibility might not be adequately preserved.


 


    In certain segments of our business, institutional knowledge
    resides with employees who have many years of service. As these
    employees reach retirement age, we may not be able to replace
    them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. In
    addition, we may not be able to retain or recruit other
    qualified individuals and our efforts at knowledge transfer
    could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and
    retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts
    of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become
    unavailable to us.


 



    Failure
    of or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might
    negatively impact our ability to conduct our
    business.


 


    Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing
    relationships. Although we have taken steps to build a
    cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with our
    outsourcing providers and to closely monitor their performance,
    a deterioration in the timeliness or quality of the services
    performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or
    part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional
    knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be
    able to conduct our business. The expiration of such agreements
    or the transition of services between providers could lead to
    similar losses of institutional knowledge or disruptions.


 


    Certain of our accounting, information technology, application
    development, and help desk services are currently provided by an
    outsourcing provider from service centers outside of the United
    States. The economic and political conditions in certain
    countries from which our outsourcing providers may provide
    services to us present similar risks of business operations
    located outside of the United States previously discussed,
    including risks of interruption of business, war, expropriation,
    nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification
    of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are
    greater than in the United States.


 



    Risks
    Related to Weather, other Natural Phenomena and Business
    Disruption


 



    Our
    assets and operations can be adversely affected by weather and
    other natural phenomena.


 


    Our assets and operations, including those located offshore, can
    be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes,
    tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions
    including extreme temperatures, making it more difficult for us
    to realize the historic rates of return associated with these
    assets and operations. Insurance may be inadequate, and in some
    instances, we may be unable to obtain insurance on commercially
    reasonable terms, if at all. A significant disruption in
    operations or a significant liability for which we were not
    fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our
    business, results of operations and financial condition.



    
    32



Table of Contents




    In addition, there is a growing belief that emissions of
    greenhouse gases may be linked to global climate change. Climate
    change creates physical and financial risk. Our customers’
    energy needs vary with weather conditions. To the extent weather
    conditions are affected by climate change or demand is impacted
    by regulations associated with climate change, customers’
    energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration
    and magnitude of the changes, leading to either increased
    investment or decreased revenues.


 



    Acts
    of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our assets and the assets of our customers and others may be
    targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our business
    or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or
    partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport
    or distribute natural gas, natural gas liquids or other
    commodities. Acts of terrorism as well as events occurring in
    response to or in connection with acts of terrorism could cause
    environmental repercussions that could result in a significant
    decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or
    remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B