Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
    FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF
    THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995


 


    Certain matters contained in this report include
    “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated
    financial performance, management’s plans and objectives
    for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory
    proceedings, market conditions and other matters. We make these
    forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor
    protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995.


 


    All statements, other than statements of historical facts,
    included in this report that address activities, events or
    developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or
    may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements.
    Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of
    words such as “anticipates,” “believes,”
    “seeks,” “could,” “may,”
    “should,” “continues,”
    “estimates,” “expects,”
    “forecasts,” “intends,” “might,”
    “goals,” “objectives,” “targets,”
    “planned,” “potential,”
    “projects,” “scheduled,” “will” or
    other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are
    based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on
    information currently available to management and include, among
    others, statements regarding:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Amounts and nature of future capital expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    Expansion and growth of our business and operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Financial condition and liquidity;




 



     
        • 

    
    Business strategy;




 



     
        • 

    
    Estimates of proved gas and oil reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    Reserve potential;




 



     
        • 

    
    Development drilling potential;




 



     
        • 

    
    Cash flow from operations or results of operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Seasonality of certain business segments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Natural gas, natural gas liquids and crude oil prices and demand.





 


    Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions,
    uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or
    results to be materially different from those stated or implied
    in this report. Many of the factors that





    
    21



Table of Contents





    will determine these results are beyond our ability to control
    or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to
    differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking
    statements include, among others, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Availability of supplies (including the uncertainties inherent
    in assessing, estimating, acquiring and developing future
    natural gas and oil reserves), market demand, volatility of
    prices, and the availability and cost of capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    Inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign exchange, and
    general economic conditions (including future disruptions and
    volatility in the global credit markets and the impact of these
    events on our customers and suppliers);




 



     
        • 

    
    The strength and financial resources of our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Development of alternative energy sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    The impact of operational and development hazards;




 



     
        • 

    
    Costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government
    regulations (including climate change legislation
    and/or
    potential additional regulation of drilling and completion of
    wells), environmental liabilities, litigation, and rate
    proceedings;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our costs and funding obligations for defined benefit pension
    plans and other postretirement benefit plans;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in maintenance and construction costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the current geopolitical situation;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks related to strategy and financing, including restrictions
    stemming from our debt agreements, future changes in our credit
    ratings and the availability and cost of credit;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks associated with future weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of terrorism;




 



     
        • 

    
    Additional risks described in our filings with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission.





 


    Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our
    actual results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly
    rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any
    obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or to
    announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the
    forward-looking statements to reflect future events or
    developments.


 


    In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors
    listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to
    change from those statements of intention set forth in this
    report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our
    results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and
    without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our
    assumptions, or otherwise.




    
    22



Table of Contents





    Because forward-looking statements involve risks and
    uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in
    addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to
    differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
    statements. These factors are described in the following section.


 



    RISK
    FACTORS


 


    You should carefully consider the following risk factors in
    addition to the other information in this report. Each of these
    factors could adversely affect our business, operating results,
    and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value
    of an investment in our securities.


 



    Risks
    Related to Separation Plan


 



    If our
    plan to separate our exploration and production business is
    delayed or not completed, our stock price may decline and our
    growth potential may not be enhanced.


 


    On February 16, 2011, we announced that our Board of
    Directors approved pursuing a plan to divide our businesses into
    two separate, publicly traded corporations. The plan calls for a
    separation of our exploration and production business through an
    initial public offering of up to 20 percent of the
    corporation holding that business in 2011 and a tax-free spinoff
    of our remaining interest in that corporation to our
    shareholders in 2012. The completion and timing of each of the
    transactions is dependent on a number of factors including, but
    not limited to, the macroeconomic environment, credit markets,
    equity markets, energy prices, the receipt of a tax opinion from
    counsel
    and/or
    Internal Revenue Service rulings, final approvals from our Board
    of Directors and other customary matters. We may not complete
    the transactions at all or complete the transactions on the
    timeline or on the terms that we announced. If the transactions
    are not completed or delayed, our stock price may decline and
    our growth potential may not be enhanced.


 



    Risks
    Inherent in our Business


 



    The
    long-term financial condition of our gas pipeline and midstream
    businesses is dependent on the continued availability of natural
    gas supplies in the supply basins that we access, demand for
    those supplies in our traditional markets, and the prices of and
    market demand for natural gas.


 


    The development of the additional natural gas reserves that are
    essential for our gas pipeline and midstream businesses to
    thrive requires significant capital expenditures by others for
    exploration and development drilling and the installation of
    production, gathering, storage, transportation and other
    facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered
    to our pipeline systems. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory
    limitations, including environmental regulations, or the lack of
    available capital for these projects could adversely affect the
    development and production of additional reserves, as well as
    gathering, storage, pipeline transportation and import and
    export of natural gas supplies, adversely impacting our ability
    to fill the capacities of our gathering, transportation and
    processing facilities.


 


    Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins
    with access to our pipeline systems will also naturally decline
    over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these
    wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which
    production from these reserves declines may be greater than
    anticipated. Additionally, the competition for natural gas
    supplies to serve other markets could reduce the amount of
    natural gas supply for our customers. Accordingly, to maintain
    or increase the contracted capacity or the volume of natural gas
    transported on or gathered through our pipeline systems and cash
    flows associated with the gathering and transportation of
    natural gas, our customers must compete with others to obtain
    adequate supplies of natural gas. In addition, if natural gas
    prices in the supply basins connected to our pipeline systems
    are higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions,
    our ability to compete with other transporters may be negatively
    impacted on a short-term basis, as well as with respect to our
    long-term recontracting activities. If new supplies of natural
    gas are not obtained to replace the natural decline in volumes
    from existing supply areas, if natural gas supplies are diverted
    to serve other markets, if development in new supply basins
    where we do not have significant gathering or pipeline systems
    reduces demand for our services, or if environmental regulators
    restrict new natural gas drilling, the overall volume of natural
    gas transported, gathered and stored on our system would
    decline, which could have a material





    
    23



Table of Contents





    adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results
    of operations. In addition, new LNG import facilities built near
    our markets could result in less demand for our gathering and
    transportation facilities.


 



    Significant
    prolonged changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and
    demand and cause a termination of our transportation and storage
    contracts or a reduction in throughput on the gas pipeline
    systems.


 


    Higher natural gas prices over the long term could result in a
    decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in
    long-term transportation and storage contracts or throughput on
    our gas pipeline systems. Also, lower natural gas prices over
    the long term could result in a decline in the production of
    natural gas resulting in reduced contracts or throughput on the
    gas pipeline systems. As a result, significant prolonged changes
    in natural gas prices could have a material adverse effect on
    our gas pipeline business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    Prices
    for NGLs, natural gas and other commodities, including oil, are
    volatile and this volatility could adversely affect our
    financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to
    maintain existing businesses.


 


    Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the
    value of certain segments of our businesses depend primarily
    upon the prices of NGLs, natural gas, oil, or other commodities,
    and the differences between prices of these commodities. Price
    volatility can impact both the amount we receive for our
    products and services and the volume of products and services we
    sell. Prices affect the amount of cash flow available for
    capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise
    additional capital. Any of the foregoing can also have an
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition and cash flows.


 


    The markets for NGLs, natural gas and other commodities are
    likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices
    might result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and
    demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and other
    factors that are beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas,
    NGLs, oil, and related commodities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
    Countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of consumer demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    The price and availability of other types of fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    The availability of pipeline capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    Supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation
    disruptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The price and level of foreign imports;




 



     
        • 

    
    Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;




 



     
        • 

    
    Volatility in the natural gas and oil markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    The overall economic environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    The credit of participants in the markets where products are
    bought and sold;




 



     
        • 

    
    The adoption of regulations or legislation relating to climate
    change.







    
    24



Table of Contents




 



    We
    might not be able to successfully manage the risks associated
    with selling and marketing products in the wholesale energy
    markets.


 


    Our portfolio of derivative and other energy contracts may
    consist of wholesale contracts to buy and sell commodities,
    including contracts for natural gas, NGLs, oil and other
    commodities that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or
    cash throughout the United States. If the values of these
    contracts change in a direction or manner that we do not
    anticipate or cannot manage, it could negatively affect our
    results of operations. In the past, certain marketing and
    trading companies have experienced severe financial problems due
    to price volatility in the energy commodity markets. In certain
    instances this volatility has caused companies to be unable to
    deliver energy commodities that they had guaranteed under
    contract. If such a delivery failure were to occur in one of our
    contracts, we might incur additional losses to the extent of
    amounts, if any, already paid to, or received from,
    counterparties. In addition, in our businesses, we often extend
    credit to our counterparties. Despite performing credit analysis
    prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we
    might not be able to collect amounts owed to us. If the
    counterparty to such a transaction fails to perform and any
    collateral that secures our counterparty’s obligation is
    inadequate, we will suffer a loss. Downturns in the economy or
    disruptions in the global credit markets could cause more of our
    counterparties to fail to perform than we expect.


 



    Significant
    capital expenditures are required to replace our
    reserves.


 


    Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require
    substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded
    our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows
    from operations and debt and equity issuances. Future cash flows
    are subject to a number of variables, including the level of
    production from existing wells, prices of natural gas and oil,
    and our success in developing and producing new reserves. If our
    cash flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital
    expenditure budget, we may not be able to access additional bank
    debt, issue debt or equity securities or access other methods of
    financing on an economic basis to meet our capital expenditure
    budget. As a result, our capital expenditure plans may have to
    be adjusted.


 



    Failure
    to replace reserves may negatively affect our
    business.


 


    The growth of our Exploration & Production business
    depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional
    natural gas and oil reserves that are economically recoverable.
    Our proved reserves generally decline when reserves are
    produced, unless we conduct successful exploration or
    development activities or acquire properties containing proved
    reserves, or both. We may not be able to find, develop or
    acquire additional reserves on an economic basis. If natural gas
    or oil prices increase, our costs for additional reserves would
    also increase; conversely if natural gas or oil prices decrease,
    it could make it more difficult to fund the replacement of our
    reserves.


 



    Exploration
    and development drilling may not result in commercially
    productive reserves.


 


    Our past success rate for drilling projects should not be
    considered a predictor of future commercial success. We do not
    always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our
    drilling operations. The new wells we drill or participate in
    may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion
    of our investment in wells we drill or participate in. The cost
    of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain,
    and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a
    project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells
    or wells that are productive but do not produce enough reserves
    to return a profit after drilling, operating and other costs.
    Further, our drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or
    canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, drilling rigs and equipment, skilled labor,
    capital or transportation;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unexpected drilling conditions or problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulations and regulatory approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes or anticipated changes in energy prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    Compliance with environmental and other governmental
    requirements.







    
    25



Table of Contents




 



    Estimating
    reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties.
    Negative revisions to reserve estimates, oil and gas prices or
    assumptions as to future natural gas prices may lead to
    decreased earnings, losses, or impairment of oil and gas
    assets.


 


    Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating
    underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured
    in an exact manner. Reserves that are “proved
    reserves” are those estimated quantities of crude oil,
    natural gas, and natural gas liquids that geological and
    engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are
    recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing
    economic and operating conditions, but should not be considered
    as a guarantee of results for future drilling projects.


 


    The process relies on interpretations of available geological,
    geophysical, engineering and production data. There are numerous
    uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved
    reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing
    of developmental expenditures, including many factors beyond the
    control of the producer. The reserve data included in this
    report represent estimates. In addition, the estimates of future
    net revenues from our proved reserves and the present value of
    such estimates are based upon certain assumptions about future
    production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be
    correct.


 


    Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic
    conditions in existence during the period of assessment. Changes
    to oil and gas prices in the markets for such commodities may
    have the impact of shortening the economic lives of certain
    fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable
    reserves on such fields, which reduces proved property reserve
    estimates.


 


    If negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved
    reserves were to occur, it would have the effect of increasing
    the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the
    affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in
    losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization
    expense. These revisions, as well as revisions in the
    assumptions of future cash flows of these reserves, may also be
    sufficient to trigger impairment losses on certain properties
    which would result in a noncash charge to earnings.


 



    Certain
    of our gas pipeline services are subject to long-term,
    fixed-price contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even
    if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues
    received from such contracts.


 


    Our gas pipelines provide some services pursuant to long-term,
    fixed price contracts. It is possible that costs to perform
    services under such contracts will exceed the revenues they
    collect for their services. Although most of the services are
    priced at cost-based rates that are subject to adjustment in
    rate cases, under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and
    a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at
    a “negotiated rate” that may be above or below the
    FERC regulated cost-based rate for that service. These
    “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject
    to adjustment for increased costs that could be produced by
    inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities
    being used to perform the services.


 



    We may
    not be able to maintain or replace expiring natural gas
    transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates or on a
    long-term basis.


 


    Our primary exposure to market risk for our gas pipelines occurs
    at the time the terms of their existing transportation and
    storage contracts expire and are subject to termination. Upon
    expiration of the terms we may not be able to extend contracts
    with existing customers to obtain replacement contracts at
    favorable rates or on a long-term basis.


 


    The extension or replacement of existing contracts depends on a
    number of factors beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The level of existing and new competition to deliver natural gas
    to our markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    The growth in demand for natural gas in our markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Whether the market will continue to support long-term firm
    contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    Whether our business strategy continues to be successful;




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of competition for natural gas supplies in the
    production basins serving us;







    
    26



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The effects of state regulation on customer contracting
    practices.





 


    Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our
    existing contracts may have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    Our
    risk measurement and hedging activities might not be effective
    and could increase the volatility of our results.


 


    Although we have systems in place that use various methodologies
    to quantify commodity price risk associated with our businesses,
    these systems might not always be followed or might not always
    be effective. Further, such systems do not in themselves manage
    risk, particularly risks outside of our control, and adverse
    changes in energy commodity market prices, volatility, adverse
    correlation of commodity prices, the liquidity of markets,
    changes in interest rates and other risks discussed in this
    report might still adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and
    balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks
    have been identified.


 


    In an effort to manage our financial exposure related to
    commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered and may
    in the future enter into contracts to hedge certain risks
    associated with our assets and operations. In these hedging
    activities, we have used and may in the future use fixed-price,
    forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures,
    financial swaps and option contracts traded in the
    over-the-counter
    markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging
    arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given
    contract. For example, a forward contract that would be
    effective in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not
    hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or performance
    risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist.
    While we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk within
    guidelines established by our credit policy, we may not be able
    to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash
    flows and results of operations could be impacted by
    counterparty default.


 


    Our use of hedging arrangements through which we attempt to
    reduce the economic risk of our participation in commodity
    markets could result in increased volatility of our reported
    results. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses) of
    derivatives that qualify as hedges under generally accepted
    accounting principles (GAAP) to the extent that such hedges are
    not fully effective in offsetting changes to the value of the
    hedged commodity, as well as changes in the fair value of
    derivatives that do not qualify or have not been designated as
    hedges under GAAP, must be recorded in our income. This creates
    the risk of volatility in earnings even if no economic impact to
    us has occurred during the applicable period.


 


    The impact of changes in market prices for NGLs and natural gas
    on the average prices paid or received by us may be reduced
    based on the level of our hedging activities. These hedging
    arrangements may limit or enhance our margins if the market
    prices for NGLs or natural gas were to change substantially from
    the price established by the hedges. In addition, our hedging
    arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain
    circumstances, including instances in which:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Volumes are less than expected;




 



     
        • 

    
    The hedging instrument is not perfectly effective in mitigating
    the risk being hedged;




 



     
        • 

    
    The counterparties to our hedging arrangements fail to honor
    their financial commitments.





 



    The
    adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory
    requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse
    impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our
    business and increase the working capital requirements to
    conduct these activities.


 


    In July 2010, federal legislation known as the Dodd-Frank Wall
    Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Act) was enacted.
    The Act provides for new statutory and regulatory requirements
    for derivative transactions, including oil and gas hedging
    transactions. Among other things, the Act provides for the
    creation of position limits for certain derivatives
    transactions, as well as requiring certain transactions to be
    cleared on exchanges for which cash collateral will be required.
    The final impact of the Act on our hedging activities is
    uncertain at this time due to the requirement that the SEC and
    the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) promulgate
    rules and regulations implementing the new legislation within
    360 days from the date of enactment. These new rules and





    
    27



Table of Contents





    regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative
    contracts, materially alter the terms of derivative contracts or
    reduce the availability of derivatives. Although we believe the
    derivative contracts that we enter into should not be impacted
    by position limits and should be exempt from the requirement to
    clear transactions through a central exchange or to post
    collateral, the impact upon our businesses will depend on the
    outcome of the implementing regulations adopted by the CFTC.


 


    Depending on the rules and definitions adopted by the CFTC, we
    might in the future be required to provide cash collateral for
    our commodities hedging transactions under circumstances in
    which we do not currently post cash collateral. Posting of such
    additional cash collateral could impact liquidity and reduce our
    cash available for capital expenditures. A requirement to post
    cash collateral could therefore reduce our ability to execute
    hedges to reduce commodity price uncertainty and thus protect
    cash flows. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of
    the Act and regulations, our results of operations may become
    more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable.


 



    We
    depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our
    revenues. The loss of any of these key customers or the loss of
    any contracted volumes could result in a decline in our
    business.


 


    Our gas pipeline and midstream businesses rely on a limited
    number of customers for a significant portion of their revenues.
    Although some of these customers are subject to long-term
    contracts, extensions or replacements of these contracts may not
    be renegotiated on favorable terms, if at all. The loss of all,
    or even a portion of the revenues from natural gas, NGLs or
    contracted volumes, as applicable, supplied by these customers,
    as a result of competition, creditworthiness, inability to
    negotiate extensions or replacements of contracts or otherwise,
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations, and cash flows, unless we are
    able to acquire comparable volumes from other sources.


 



    We are
    exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and our credit risk
    management may not be adequate to protect against such
    risk.


 


    We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment
    and/or
    nonperformance by our customers in the ordinary course of our
    business. Generally, our customers are rated investment grade,
    are otherwise considered creditworthy or are required to make
    prepayments or provide security to satisfy credit concerns.
    However, our credit procedures and policies may not be adequate
    to fully eliminate customer credit risk. We cannot predict to
    what extent our business would be impacted by deteriorating
    conditions in the economy, including declines in our
    customers’ creditworthiness. If we fail to adequately
    assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers,
    unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness and any
    resulting increase in nonpayment
    and/or
    nonperformance by them could cause us to write-down or write-off
    doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could
    negatively affect our operating results in the periods in which
    they occur, and, if significant, could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and
    financial condition.


 



    Our
    industry is highly competitive, and increased competitive
    pressure could adversely affect our business and operating
    results.


 


    We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses,
    and additional competitors may enter our markets. Other
    companies with which we compete may be able to respond more
    quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies, or
    to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion or
    refurbishment of their facilities than we can. In addition,
    current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions
    or have greater financial resources than we do, which could
    affect our ability to make investments or acquisitions.
    Similarly, a highly-liquid competitive commodity market in
    natural gas and increasingly competitive markets for natural gas
    services, including competitive secondary markets in pipeline
    capacity, have developed. As a result, pipeline capacity is
    being used more efficiently, and peaking and storage services
    are increasingly effective substitutes for annual pipeline
    capacity. We may not be able to compete successfully against
    current and future competitors and any failure to do so could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations, and cash flows.




    
    28



Table of Contents






    Our
    operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen
    interruptions for which they may not be adequately
    insured.


 


    There are operational risks associated with drilling for,
    production, gathering, transporting, storage, processing and
    treating of natural gas and the fractionation and storage of
    NGLs, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, extreme weather
    conditions, and other natural disasters;




 



     
        • 

    
    Aging infrastructure and mechanical problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    Damages to pipelines and pipeline blockages;




 



     
        • 

    
    Uncontrolled releases of natural gas (including sour gas), NGLs,
    brine or industrial chemicals;




 



     
        • 

    
    Collapse of storage caverns;




 



     
        • 

    
    Operator error;




 



     
        • 

    
    Damage inadvertently caused by third-party activity, such as
    operation of construction equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pollution and environmental risks;




 



     
        • 

    
    Fires, explosions, craterings and blowouts;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks related to truck and rail loading and unloading;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks related to operating in a marine environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or
    those of other energy companies.





 


    Any of these risks could result in loss of human life, personal
    injuries, significant damage to property, environmental
    pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses
    to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we
    maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and
    losses, and only at levels we believe to be appropriate. The
    location of certain segments of our facilities in or near
    populated areas, including residential areas, commercial
    business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level
    of damages resulting from these risks. In spite of our
    precautions, an event such as those described above could cause
    considerable harm to people or property, and could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by
    insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further
    result in loss of service available to our customers.


 



    Our
    costs of maintaining or repairing our facilities may exceed our
    expectations and the FERC or competition in our markets may not
    allow us to recover such costs in the rates we charge for our
    services.


 


    We could experience unexpected leaks or ruptures on our gas
    pipeline and midstream systems, or be required by regulatory
    authorities to undertake modifications to our systems that could
    result in a material adverse impact on our business, financial
    condition and results of operations if the costs of maintaining
    or repairing our facilities exceed current expectations and the
    FERC or competition in our markets do not allow us to recover
    such costs in the rates we charge for our service.


 



    We do
    not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously
    harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the inability of our
    insurers to satisfy our claims.


 


    We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our
    business, including environmental accidents. We do not maintain
    insurance in the type and amount to cover all possible risks of
    loss.


 


    We currently maintain excess liability insurance with limits of
    $610 million per occurrence and in the annual aggregate
    with a $2 million per occurrence deductible. This insurance
    covers us, our subsidiaries, and certain of our affiliates for
    legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury
    or property damage, including resulting loss of use to third
    parties. This excess liability insurance includes coverage for
    sudden and accidental pollution liability for full limits, with
    the first $135 million of insurance also providing gradual
    pollution liability coverage for natural gas and NGL operations.




    
    29



Table of Contents





    Although we maintain property insurance on property we own,
    lease or are responsible to insure, the policy may not cover the
    full replacement cost of all damaged assets or the entire amount
    of business interruption loss we may experience. In addition,
    certain perils may be excluded from coverage or
    sub-limited.
    We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type
    and amount we desire at reasonable rates. We may elect to self
    insure a portion of our risks. We do not insure our onshore
    underground pipelines for physical damage, except at certain
    locations such as river crossings and compressor stations. Only
    certain offshore key-assets are covered for property damage and
    the resulting business interruption when loss is due to a named
    windstorm event and coverage for loss caused by a named
    windstorm is significantly
    sub-limited.
    All of our insurance is subject to deductibles. If a significant
    accident or event occurs for which we are not fully insured it
    could adversely affect our operations and financial condition.


 


    In addition, any insurance company that provides coverage to us
    may experience negative developments that could impair their
    ability to pay any of our claims. As a result, we could be
    exposed to greater losses than anticipated and may have to
    obtain replacement insurance, if available, at a greater cost.


 


    The occurrence of any risks not fully covered by insurance could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability
    to repay our debt.


 



    Execution
    of our capital projects subjects us to construction risks,
    increases in labor costs and materials, and other risks that may
    adversely affect financial results.


 


    The growth in our gas pipeline and midstream businesses may be
    dependent upon the construction of new natural gas gathering,
    transportation, processing or treating pipelines and facilities
    or natural gas liquids fractionation or storage facilities, as
    well as the expansion of existing facilities. Construction or
    expansion of these facilities is subject to various regulatory,
    development and operational risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by
    regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    The availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to
    complete expansion projects;




 



     
        • 

    
    Potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and
    regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent
    a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of
    the project;




 



     
        • 

    
    Impediments on our ability to acquire
    rights-of-way
    or land rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    The ability to construct projects within estimated costs,
    including the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or
    increased costs of equipment, materials, labor, or other factors
    beyond our control, that may be material;




 



     
        • 

    
    The ability to access capital markets to fund construction
    projects.





 


    Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding,
    delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. As a
    result, new facilities may not achieve expected investment
    return, which could adversely affect our results of operations,
    financial position or cash flows.


 



    Our
    costs and funding obligations for our defined benefit pension
    plans and costs for our other postretirement benefit plans are
    affected by factors beyond our control.


 


    We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all
    of our U.S. employees and other post-retirement benefit
    plans covering certain eligible participants. The timing and
    amount of our funding requirements under the defined benefit
    pension plans depend upon a number of factors we control,
    including changes to pension plan benefits, as well as factors
    outside of our control, such as asset returns, interest rates
    and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors
    that can significantly increase our funding requirements could
    have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.




    
    30



Table of Contents






    One of
    our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly
    traded limited partnership, Williams Partners L.P. As such, this
    subsidiary’s operations may involve a greater risk of
    liability than ordinary business operations.


 


    One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of WPZ, a
    publicly-traded limited partnership. This subsidiary may be
    deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations with respect to
    WPZ as the general partner and to the limited partners of WPZ.
    Activities determined to involve fiduciary obligations to other
    persons or entities typically involve a higher standard of
    conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may
    involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a
    conflict of interests is found to exist. Our control of the
    general partner of WPZ may increase the possibility of
    claims of breach of fiduciary duties, including claims brought
    due to conflicts of interest (including conflicts of interest
    that may arise between WPZ, on the one hand, and its general
    partner and that general partner’s affiliates, including
    us, on the other hand). Any liability resulting from such claims
    could be material.


 



    Potential
    changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our
    financial results and disclosures in the future, which might
    change the way analysts measure our business or financial
    performance.


 


    Regulators and legislators continue to take a renewed look at
    accounting practices, financial disclosures, and companies’
    relationships with their independent public accounting firms. It
    remains unclear what new laws or regulations will be adopted,
    and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of that any such new
    laws or regulations could have. In addition, the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board, the SEC or FERC could enact new
    accounting standards or FERC orders that might impact how we are
    required to record revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and
    equity. Any significant change in accounting standards or
    disclosure requirements could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations, and financial condition.


 



    Our
    investments and projects located outside of the United States
    expose us to risks related to the laws of other countries, and
    the taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates,
    political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These
    risks might delay or reduce our realization of value from our
    international projects.


 


    We currently own and might acquire
    and/or
    dispose of material energy-related investments and projects
    outside the United States. The economic and political conditions
    in certain countries where we have interests or in which we
    might explore development, acquisition or investment
    opportunities present risks of delays in construction and
    interruption of business, as well as risks of war,
    expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions
    or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax
    policy, that are greater than in the United States. The
    uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign
    countries in which we develop or acquire projects or make
    investments could make it more difficult to obtain nonrecourse
    project financing or other financing on suitable terms, could
    adversely affect the ability of certain customers to honor their
    obligations with respect to such projects or investments and
    could impair our ability to enforce our rights under agreements
    relating to such projects or investments.


 


    Operations and investments in foreign countries also can present
    currency exchange rate and convertibility, inflation and
    repatriation risk. In certain situations under which we develop
    or acquire projects or make investments, economic and monetary
    conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert
    to U.S. dollars our earnings denominated in foreign
    currencies. In addition, risk from fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates can arise when our foreign subsidiaries expend or
    borrow funds in one type of currency, but receive revenue in
    another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can
    reduce our ability to meet expenses, including debt service
    obligations. We may or may not put contracts in place designed
    to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks. We have some
    exposures that are not hedged and which could result in losses
    or volatility in our results of operations.


 



    Our
    operating results for certain segments of our business might
    fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.


 


    Revenues from certain segments of our business can have seasonal
    characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for
    natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a
    result, our overall operating results in





    
    31



Table of Contents





    the future might fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.
    Demand for natural gas and other fuels could vary significantly
    from our expectations depending on the nature and location of
    our facilities and pipeline systems and the terms of our natural
    gas transportation arrangements relative to demand created by
    unusual weather patterns. Additionally, changes in the price of
    natural gas could benefit one of our businesses, but
    disadvantage another. For example, our Exploration &
    Production business may benefit from higher natural gas prices,
    and our midstream business, which uses gas as a feedstock, may
    not.


 



    We do
    not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities
    are located, which could disrupt our operations.


 


    We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and
    facilities have been constructed. As such, we are subject to the
    possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. In
    those instances in which we do not own the land on which our
    facilities are located, we obtain the rights to construct and
    operate our pipelines and gathering systems on land owned by
    third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of
    time. In addition, some of our facilities cross Native American
    lands pursuant to
    rights-of-way
    of limited term. We may not have the right of eminent domain
    over land owned by Native American tribes. Our loss of these
    rights, through our inability to renew
    right-of-way
    contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on
    our business, results of operations, and financial condition and
    cash flows.


 



    Risks
    Related to Strategy and Financing


 



    Our
    debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may limit our
    access to credit and adversely affect our ability to operate our
    business.


 


    Certain of our debt agreements contain various covenants that
    restrict or limit, among other things, our ability to grant
    liens to support indebtedness, merge or sell substantially all
    of our assets, make certain distributions during an event of
    default, and incur additional debt. In addition, our debt
    agreements contain, and those we enter into in the future may
    contain, financial covenants and other limitations with which we
    will need to comply. These covenants could adversely affect our
    ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or
    engage in, expand or pursue our business activities and prevent
    us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be
    considered beneficial to us. Our ability to comply with these
    covenants may be affected by events beyond our control,
    including prevailing economic, financial and industry
    conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate,
    our current assumptions about future economic conditions turn
    out to be incorrect or unexpected events occur, our ability to
    comply with these covenants may be significantly impaired.


 


    Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements
    could result in events of default. Upon the occurrence of such
    an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all
    amounts outstanding under a particular facility to be
    immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments, if
    any, to extend further credit. Certain payment defaults or an
    acceleration under one debt agreement could cause a
    cross-default or cross-acceleration of another debt agreement.
    Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could have a wider
    impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a
    default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. If an event
    of default occurs, or if other debt agreements cross-default,
    and the lenders under the affected debt agreements accelerate
    the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding to us, we
    may not have sufficient liquidity to repay amounts outstanding
    under such debt agreements. For more information regarding our
    debt agreements, please read “Management’s Discussion
    and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations — Management’s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Liquidity.”


 


    Our ability to repay, extend or refinance our existing debt
    obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on
    our operating performance, which will be affected by general
    economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory,
    business and other factors, many of which are beyond our
    control. Our ability to refinance existing debt obligations or
    obtain future credit will also depend upon the current
    conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit
    generally. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations
    or obtain future credit on favorable terms, if at all, we could
    be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek
    additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to
    obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all.




    
    32



Table of Contents






    Future
    disruptions in the global credit markets may make equity and
    debt markets less accessible, create a shortage in the
    availability of credit and lead to credit market volatility,
    which could disrupt our financing plans and limit our ability to
    grow.


 


    In 2008, public equity markets experienced significant declines
    and global credit markets experienced a shortage in overall
    liquidity and a resulting disruption in the availability of
    credit. Future disruptions in the global financial marketplace,
    including the bankruptcy or restructuring of financial
    institutions, could make equity and debt markets inaccessible
    and adversely affect the availability of credit already arranged
    and the availability and cost of credit in the future. We have
    availability under our existing bank credit facilities, but our
    ability to borrow under those facilities could be impaired if
    one or more of our lenders fails to honor its contractual
    obligation to lend to us.


 



    Adverse
    economic conditions could negatively affect our results of
    operations.


 


    A slowdown in the economy has the potential to negatively impact
    our businesses in many ways. Included among these potential
    negative impacts are reduced demand and lower prices for our
    products and services, increased difficulty in collecting
    amounts owed to us by our customers and a reduction in our
    credit ratings (either due to tighter rating standards or the
    negative impacts described above), which could result in
    reducing our access to credit markets, raising the cost of such
    access or requiring us to provide additional collateral to our
    counterparties.


 



    A
    downgrade of our credit ratings could impact our liquidity,
    access to capital and our costs of doing business, and
    independent third parties determine our credit ratings outside
    of our control.


 


    A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our cost of
    borrowing and could require us to post collateral with third
    parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. Our
    ability to access capital markets could also be limited by a
    downgrade of our credit rating and other disruptions. Such
    disruptions could include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Economic downturns;




 



     
        • 

    
    Deteriorating capital market conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Declining market prices for natural gas, NGLs and other
    commodities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or
    those of other energy companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    The overall health of the energy industry, including the
    bankruptcy or insolvency of other companies.





 


    Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when
    assigning credit ratings. The analysis includes a number of
    criteria including, but not limited to, business composition,
    market and operational risks, as well as various financial
    tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria
    for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make
    changes to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are
    not recommendations to buy, sell or hold investments in the
    rated entity. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at
    any time by the ratings agencies, and no assurance can be given
    that we will maintain our current credit ratings or that our
    senior unsecured debt rating will be raised to investment grade
    by all of the credit rating agencies.


 



    Risks
    Related to Regulations that Affect our Industry


 



    Our
    gas pipelines could be subject to penalties and fines if they
    fail to comply with FERC regulations.


 


    Our gas pipeline’s transportation and storage operations
    are regulated by FERC. Should our gas pipelines fail to comply
    with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules,
    regulations and orders, they could be subject to substantial
    penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC
    has civil penalty authority under the Natural Gas Act (NGA) to
    impose penalties for current violations of up to $1,000,000 per
    day for each violation. Any material penalties or fines imposed
    by FERC could have a material adverse impact on our gas pipeline
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    The
    natural gas sales, transportation and storage operations of our
    gas pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC, which could
    have an adverse impact on their ability to establish
    transportation and storage 




    
    33



Table of Contents





    rates that would allow them to recover the full cost of
    operating their respective pipelines, including a reasonable
    rate of return.


 


    The natural gas sales, transmission and storage operations of
    the gas pipelines are subject to federal, state and local
    regulatory authorities. Specifically, their interstate pipeline
    transportation and storage service is subject to regulation by
    the FERC. The federal regulation extends to such matters as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate
    commerce;




 



     
        • 

    
    Rates, operating terms, and conditions of service, including
    initiation and discontinuation of service;




 



     
        • 

    
    The types of services the gas pipelines may offer their
    customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Certification and construction of new facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Accounts and records;




 



     
        • 

    
    Depreciation and amortization policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    Relationships with affiliated companies who are involved in
    marketing functions of the natural gas business;




 



     
        • 

    
    Market manipulation in connection with interstate sales,
    purchases or transportation of natural gas.





 


    Under the NGA, FERC has authority to regulate providers of
    natural gas pipeline transportation and storage services in
    interstate commerce, and such providers may only charge rates
    that have been determined to be just and reasonable by FERC. In
    addition, FERC prohibits providers from unduly preferring or
    unreasonably discriminating against any person with respect to
    pipeline rates or terms and conditions of service.


 


    Regulatory actions in these areas can affect our business in
    many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues,
    decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs and
    otherwise altering the profitability of our pipeline business.


 


    Unlike other interstate pipelines that own facilities in the
    offshore Gulf of Mexico, Transco charges its transportation
    customers a separate fee to access its offshore facilities. The
    separate charge is referred to as an “IT feeder”
    charge. The “IT feeder” rate is charged only when gas
    is actually transported on the facilities and typically it is
    paid by producers or marketers. Because the “IT
    feeder” rate is typically paid by producers and marketers,
    it generally results in netback prices to producers that are
    slightly lower than the netbacks realized by producers
    transporting on other interstate pipelines. This rate design
    disparity could result in producers bypassing Transco’s
    offshore facilities in favor of alternative transportation
    facilities.


 


    The rates, terms and conditions for interstate gas pipeline
    services are set forth in FERC-approved tariffs. Any successful
    complaint or protest against the rates of the gas pipelines
    could have an adverse impact on their revenues associated with
    providing transportation services. In addition, there is a risk
    that rates set by FERC in future rate cases filed by the gas
    pipelines will be inadequate to recover increases in operating
    costs or to sustain an adequate return on capital investments.
    There is also the risk that higher rates would cause their
    customers to look for alternative ways to transport natural gas.


 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with climate change.


 


    There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases
    (GHGs) may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the
    costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation
    of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways,
    including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing
    our products and services, the demand for and consumption of our
    products and services (due to change in both costs and weather
    patterns), and the economic health of the regions in which we
    operate, all of which can create financial risks. For further
    information regarding risks to our business arising from climate
    change related legislation, please read the discussion below
    under “Our operations are subject to governmental laws and
    regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which
    may expose us to significant costs and liabilities and could
    exceed current expectations.”




    
    34



Table of Contents






    Our
    operations are subject to governmental laws and regulations
    relating to the protection of the environment, which may expose
    us to significant costs and liabilities and could exceed current
    expectations.


 


    The risk of substantial environmental costs and liabilities is
    inherent in natural gas drilling and well completion, gathering,
    transportation, storage, processing and treating, and in the
    fractionation and storage of NGLs, and we may incur substantial
    environmental costs and liabilities in the performance of these
    types of operations. Our operations are subject to extensive
    federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations
    governing environmental protection, the discharge of materials
    into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial
    facilities. These laws include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Clean Air Act (CAA) and analogous state laws, which impose
    obligations related to air emissions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Clean Water Act (CWA), and analogous state laws, which regulate
    discharge of wastewaters from our facilities to state and
    federal waters;




 



     
        • 

    
    Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
    Liability Act (CERCLA), and analogous state laws, which regulate
    the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released
    at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or
    locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal;




 



     
        • 

    
    Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and analogous
    state laws, which impose requirements for the handling and
    discharge of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities.





 


    Various governmental authorities, including the
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and analogous
    state agencies and the U.S. Department of Homeland
    Security, have the power to enforce compliance with these laws
    and regulations and the permits issued under them, oftentimes
    requiring difficult and costly actions. Failure to comply with
    these laws, regulations, and permits may result in the
    assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the
    imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter
    conditions on or revocation of permits, and the issuance of
    injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations.


 


    There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs
    and liabilities in our business, some of which may be material,
    due to our handling of the products we gather, transport,
    process, fractionate and store, air emissions related to our
    operations, historical industry operations, waste disposal
    practices, and the prior use of flow meters containing mercury.
    Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without
    regard to fault under certain environmental laws and
    regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA, and analogous state laws,
    for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with
    spills or releases of natural gas and wastes on, under, or from
    our properties and facilities. Private parties, including the
    owners of properties through which our pipeline and gathering
    systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for
    reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal
    actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for
    non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or for
    personal injury or property damage arising from our operations.
    Some sites we operate are located near current or former
    third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing operations, and
    there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites
    to ours. In addition, increasingly strict laws, regulations and
    enforcement policies could materially increase our compliance
    costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary.
    Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs or
    may not provide sufficient coverage if an environmental claim is
    made against us.


 


    Our business may be adversely affected by increased costs due to
    stricter pollution control requirements or liabilities resulting
    from non-compliance with required operating or other regulatory
    permits. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from
    time to time all required environmental regulatory approvals for
    our operations. If there is a delay in obtaining any required
    environmental regulatory approvals, or if we fail to obtain and
    comply with them, the operation or construction of our
    facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional
    costs, resulting in potentially material adverse consequences to
    our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 


    We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with
    the environmental condition of our facilities and assets,
    whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the
    liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In
    connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could
    acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against,
    environmental liabilities that could expose us to material
    losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the
    steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities
    into compliance could be





    
    35



Table of Contents





    prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down,
    divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might
    cause us to incur losses.


 


    In addition, legislative and regulatory responses related to
    GHGs and climate change creates the potential for financial
    risk. The U.S. Congress and certain states have for some
    time been considering various forms of legislation related to
    GHG emissions. There have also been international efforts
    seeking legally binding reductions in emissions of GHGs. In
    addition, increased public awareness and concern may result in
    more state, regional
    and/or
    federal requirements to reduce or mitigate GHG emissions.


 


    Numerous states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize
    and reduce GHGs. In addition, on December 7, 2009, the EPA
    issued a final determination that six GHGs are a threat to
    public safety and welfare. This determination could lead to the
    direct regulation of GHG emissions in our industry under the
    EPA’s interpretation of its authority and obligations under
    the CAA. The recent actions of the EPA and the passage of any
    federal or state climate change laws or regulations could result
    in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our
    facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our
    facilities, and (iii) administer and manage any
    GHG emissions program. If we are unable to recover or pass
    through a significant level of our costs related to complying
    with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it
    could have a material adverse effect on our results of
    operations and financial condition. To the extent financial
    markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial
    risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to
    capital.


 


    Certain environmental and other groups have suggested that
    additional laws and regulations may be needed to more closely
    regulate the hydraulic fracturing process commonly used in
    natural gas production. Legislation to further regulate
    hydraulic fracturing has been proposed in Congress and the
    U.S. Department of Interior has announced plans to
    formalize obligations for disclosure of chemicals associated
    with hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. In addition, some
    state and local authorities have considered or formalized new
    rules related to hydraulic fracturing and enacted moratoria on
    such activities. We cannot predict whether any federal, state or
    local legislation or regulation will be enacted in this area and
    if so, what its provisions would be. If additional levels of
    reporting, regulation and permitting were required, our
    operations and those of our customers could be adversely
    affected.


 


    We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible
    expenditures related to environmental conditions based on
    current laws and regulations and current interpretations of
    those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or
    regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our
    assumptions may change, and any new capital costs incurred to
    comply with such changes may not be recoverable under our
    regulatory rate structure or our customer contracts. In
    addition, new environmental laws and regulations might adversely
    affect our products and activities, including drilling,
    processing, fractionation, storage and transportation, as well
    as waste management and air emissions. For instance, federal and
    state agencies could impose additional safety requirements, any
    of which could affect our profitability.


 



    If
    third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our
    pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport natural
    gas and NGLs or to treat natural gas, our revenues could be
    adversely affected.


 


    We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that
    provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and
    facilities for the benefit of our customers. Because we do not
    own these third-party pipelines or facilities, their continuing
    operation is not within our control. If these pipelines or other
    facilities were to become temporarily or permanently unavailable
    for any reason, or if throughput were reduced because of
    testing, line repair, damage to the pipelines or facilities,
    reduced operating pressures, lack of capacity, increased credit
    requirements or rates charged by such pipelines or facilities or
    other causes, we and our customers would have reduced capacity
    to transport, store or deliver natural gas or NGL products to
    end use markets or to receive deliveries of mixed NGLs, thereby
    reducing our revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption
    at any key pipeline interconnect or in operations on third-party
    pipelines or facilities that would cause a material reduction in
    volumes transported on our pipelines or our gathering systems or
    processed, fractionated, treated or stored at our facilities
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations, financial condition and cash flows.




    
    36



Table of Contents






    Our
    businesses are subject to complex government regulations. The
    operation of our businesses might be adversely affected by
    changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or
    implementation, or the introduction of new laws or regulations
    applicable to our businesses or our customers.


 


    Existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws
    and regulations might be adopted or become applicable to us, our
    facilities or our customers, and future changes in laws and
    regulations could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For
    example, several ruptures on third party pipelines have occurred
    recently. In response, various legislative and regulatory
    reforms associated with pipeline safety and integrity have been
    proposed, including reforms that would require increased
    periodic inspections, installation of additional valves and
    other equipment on our gas pipelines and subjecting additional
    pipelines (including gathering facilities) to more stringent
    regulation. Such reforms, if adopted, could significantly
    increase our costs.


 



    Legal
    and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the
    energy industry have adversely affected our business and may
    continue to do so.


 


    Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has
    resulted in increased regulation being either proposed or
    implemented. Such scrutiny has also resulted in various
    inquiries, investigations and court proceedings in which we are
    a named defendant. Both the shippers on our pipelines and
    regulators have rights to challenge the rates we charge under
    certain circumstances. Any successful challenge could materially
    affect our results of operations.


 


    Certain inquiries, investigations and court proceedings are
    ongoing. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the
    uncertainty of these ongoing inquiries and proceedings, or
    additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state
    regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we
    cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether
    these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings
    against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other
    regulatory action, including legislation, which might be
    materially adverse to the operation of our business and our
    revenues and net income or increase our operating costs in other
    ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters against us
    including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals and
    similar matters might result in adverse decisions against us.
    The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in
    the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or
    at all by insurance.


 



    The
    recently lifted drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico and
    potentially more stringent regulations and permitting
    requirements on drilling in the Gulf of Mexico could adversely
    affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash
    flows.


 


    The drilling moratorium in the Gulf of Mexico (in force from May
    to October 2010) impacted our production handling,
    gathering and transportation operations through production
    delays which reduced volumes of natural gas and oil delivered to
    our platform, pipeline and gathering facilities in 2010. In
    addition, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and
    Enforcement continues to develop more stringent drilling and
    permitting requirements for producers in the Gulf of Mexico
    which could cause delays in production or new drilling. A
    significant decline or delay in production volumes in the Gulf
    of Mexico could adversely affect our operating results,
    financial condition and cash flows through reduced production
    handling activities, gathering and transportation volumes,
    processing activities or other midstream services.


 



    Risks
    Related to Employees, Outsourcing of Noncore Support Activities,
    and Technology


 



    Institutional
    knowledge residing with current employees nearing retirement
    eligibility might not be adequately preserved.


 


    In certain segments of our business, institutional knowledge
    resides with employees who have many years of service. As these
    employees reach retirement age, we may not be able to replace
    them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. In
    addition, we may not be able to retain or recruit other
    qualified individuals, and our efforts at knowledge transfer
    could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and
    retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts
    of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become
    unavailable to us.




    
    37



Table of Contents






    Failure
    of or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might
    negatively impact our ability to conduct our
    business.


 


    Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing
    relationships. Although we have taken steps to build a
    cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with our
    outsourcing providers and to closely monitor their performance,
    a deterioration in the timeliness or quality of the services
    performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or
    part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional
    knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be
    able to conduct our business. The expiration of such agreements
    or the transition of services between providers could lead to
    similar losses of institutional knowledge or disruptions.


 


    Certain of our accounting, information technology, application
    development, and help desk services are currently provided by an
    outsourcing provider from service centers outside of the United
    States. The economic and political conditions in certain
    countries from which our outsourcing providers may provide
    services to us present similar risks of business operations
    located outside of the United States previously discussed,
    including risks of interruption of business, war, expropriation,
    nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification
    of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are
    greater than in the United States.


 



    Risks
    Related to Weather, other Natural Phenomena and Business
    Disruption


 



    Our
    assets and operations can be adversely affected by weather and
    other natural phenomena.


 


    Our assets and operations, including those located offshore, can
    be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes,
    tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions,
    including extreme temperatures, making it more difficult for us
    to realize the historic rates of return associated with these
    assets and operations. Insurance may be inadequate, and in some
    instances, we have been unable to obtain insurance on
    commercially reasonable terms, or insurance has not been
    available at all. A significant disruption in operations or a
    significant liability for which we were not fully insured could
    have a material adverse effect on our business, results of
    operations and financial condition.


 


    Our customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions.
    To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change
    or demand is impacted by regulations associated with climate
    change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease
    depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes, leading
    either to increased investment or decreased revenues.


 



    Acts
    of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our assets and the assets of our customers and others may be
    targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our business
    or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or
    partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport
    or distribute natural gas, NGLs or other commodities. Acts of
    terrorism as well as events occurring in response to or in
    connection with acts of terrorism could cause environmental
    repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in
    revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B