Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTFOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OFTHE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995The reports, filings and other public announcements of The Williams Companies, Inc. (Williams) may contain or incorporate by reference statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts.  Such statements are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated financial performance, management’s plans and objectives for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory proceedings, market conditions and other matters. We make these forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included in this report that address activities, events or developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “seeks,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “continues,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “intends,” “might,” “goals,” “objectives,” “targets,” “planned,” “potential,” “projects,” “scheduled,” “will,” “assumes,” “guidance,” “outlook,” “in service date,” or other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to management and include, among others, statements regarding:•The status, expected timing and expected outcome of the proposed ETC Merger; •Statements regarding the proposed ETC Merger; •Our beliefs relating to value creation as a result of the proposed ETC Merger; •Benefits and synergies of the proposed ETC Merger; •Future opportunities for the combined company; •Other statements regarding Williams’ and Energy Transfer’s future beliefs, expectations, plans, intentions, financial condition or performance; •Expected levels of cash distributions by Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ) with respect to general partner interests, incentive distribution rights and limited partner interests; •Levels of dividends to Williams stockholders; •Future credit ratings of Williams and WPZ; •Amounts and nature of future capital expenditures; •Expansion and growth of our business and operations; •Financial condition and liquidity; •Business strategy; •Cash flow from operations or results of operations; •Seasonality of certain business components; 21•Natural gas, natural gas liquids, and olefins prices, supply, and demand; •Demand for our services. Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions, uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or results to be materially different from those stated or implied in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific factors that could cause actual results to differ from results contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among others, the following:•Satisfaction of the conditions to the completion of the proposed ETC Merger, including receipt of the approval of Williams’ stockholders; •The timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed ETC Merger, including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals for the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the proposed transaction; •The possibility that the expected synergies and value creation from the proposed ETC Merger will not be realized or will not be realized within the expected time period; •The risk that the businesses of Williams and Energy Transfer will not be integrated successfully; •Disruption from the proposed ETC Merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; •The risk that unexpected costs will be incurred in connection with the proposed ETC Merger; •The possibility that the proposed ETC Merger does not close, including due to the failure to satisfy the closing conditions; •Whether WPZ will produce sufficient cash flows to provide the level of cash distributions we expect; •Whether Williams is able to pay current and expected levels of dividends; •Availability of supplies, market demand and volatility of prices; •Inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign exchange rates and general economic conditions (including future disruptions and volatility in the global credit markets and the impact of these events on customers and suppliers); •The strength and financial resources of our competitors and the effects of competition; •Whether we are able to successfully identify, evaluate and execute investment opportunities; •Our ability to acquire new businesses and assets and successfully integrate those operations and assets into     our existing businesses as well as successfully expand our facilities; •Development of alternative energy sources; •The impact of operational and developmental hazards and unforeseen interruptions; •Costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government regulations (including safety and environmental regulations), environmental liabilities, litigation, and rate proceedings; •Williams’ costs and funding obligations for defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans; •Changes in maintenance and construction costs; 22•Changes in the current geopolitical situation; •Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties; •Risks related to financing, including restrictions stemming from debt agreements, future changes in credit ratings as determined by nationally-recognized credit rating agencies and the availability and cost of capital; •The amount of cash distributions from and capital requirements of our investments and joint ventures in which we participate; •Risks associated with weather and natural phenomena, including climate conditions; •Acts of terrorism, including cybersecurity threats and related disruptions; •Additional risks described in our filings with the SEC. Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to update the above list or announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect future events or developments.In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to change from those statements of intention set forth in this report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our assumptions, or otherwise. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. These factors are described in the following section. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information in this report. Each of these factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our securities.The pendency of the proposed ETC Merger could adversely affect our business and operations.In connection with the proposed ETC Merger, some of our customers or vendors may delay or defer decisions, which could negatively impact our revenues, earnings, cash flows and expenses, regardless of whether the proposed ETC Merger is completed. Similarly, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles following the proposed ETC Merger, which may materially adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the proposed ETC Merger. If we fail to complete the proposed ETC Merger, it may be difficult and expensive to recruit and hire replacements for departed employees. The proposed ETC Merger, its effects and related matters may also distract our employees from day-to-day operations and require substantial commitments of time and resources. In addition, due to operating covenants in the Merger Agreement, we may be unable, during the pendency of the proposed ETC Merger, to pursue certain strategic transactions, undertake certain significant capital projects, undertake certain significant financing transactions and otherwise pursue other actions that are not in the ordinary course of business. Such risks relating to vendors, customers, employees and those risks arising from operating covenants in the Merger Agreement will also apply to varying degrees to our subsidiaries and affiliates  and thereby have a corresponding impact on us. There can be no assurance when or even if the proposed ETC Merger will be completed.Completion of the proposed ETC Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions that must be satisfied or waived, including approval of the proposed ETC Merger by our stockholders, the expiration or termination of the waiting period applicable to the proposed ETC Merger under antitrust laws, the absence of any law 23or order prohibiting the closing of the proposed ETC Merger, the declaration by the SEC of the effectiveness of the registration statement on Form S-4 of which the proxy statement/prospectus forms a part and the authorization of the listing on the NYSE of the ETC common shares. There can be no assurance that we, ETC, and Energy Transfer will be able to satisfy the closing conditions or that closing conditions beyond their or our control will be satisfied or waived. Completion of the proposed ETC Merger is also conditioned on the accuracy of representations and warranties made by the parties to the Merger Agreement (subject to customary materiality qualifiers and other customary exceptions) and the performance in all material respects by the parties of obligations imposed under the Merger Agreement.We and Energy Transfer can mutually agree at any time to terminate the Merger Agreement, even if our stockholders have already voted to approve the Merger Agreement.  We and Energy Transfer can also terminate the Merger Agreement under other specified circumstances.If the proposed ETC Merger is not completed, we will be subject to a number of risks, including the following: •Because the current price of shares of our common stock may reflect a market premium based on the assumption that we will complete the proposed ETC Merger, a failure to complete the proposed ETC Merger could result in a decline in the price of shares of our common stock;  •In specified circumstances, we may be required to pay Energy Transfer a termination fee of $1.48 billion and certain of their expenses; •We will not realize the benefits expected from being part of a larger combined organization;  •We have incurred and expect to continue incurring a number of non-recurring ETC Merger-related expenses that must be paid even if the proposed ETC Merger is not completed.  In addition, if the proposed ETC Merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers and employees. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the proposed ETC Merger or to proceedings commenced against us to attempt to force us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement.The Merger Agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential competing acquirer of us or could result in any competing proposal being at a lower price than it might otherwise be.The Merger Agreement contains provisions that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability to solicit, encourage, facilitate or discuss competing third-party proposals to acquire all or a significant part of us. In addition, Energy Transfer will have an opportunity to negotiate with us in response to any competing proposal that may be made before our board of directors is permitted to withdraw or qualify its recommendation. In some circumstances, upon termination of the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay to Energy Transfer a termination fee of $1.48 billion.These provisions could discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of us from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher value than the consideration proposed to be received or realized in the proposed ETC Merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances.The integration of our business following the proposed ETC Merger will involve considerable risks and may not be successful.Achieving the anticipated benefits of the proposed ETC Merger will depend in part upon whether Energy Transfer can integrate our businesses in an effective and efficient manner. Energy Transfer may not be able to accomplish this integration process successfully. The integration of any business may be complex and time-consuming. The difficulties that could be encountered include the following:•Integrating personnel, operations and systems;•Coordinating the geographically dispersed organizations;24•Distraction of management and employees from operations changes in corporate culture;•Retaining existing customers and attracting new customers;•Maintaining business relationships; and•Inefficiencies associated with the integration of the operations of ETC. In addition, there will be integration costs and non-recurring transaction costs associated with the proposed ETC Merger (such as fees paid to legal, financial, accounting and other advisors and other fees paid in connection with the proposed ETC Merger) and achieving the expected cost savings and synergies associated therewith, and such costs may be significant.An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the proposed ETC Merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process and the realization of such benefits, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and operating results of Energy Transfer, which may adversely affect the value of Energy Transfer common units and, in turn, the value of ETC common shares after the completion of the merger. Stockholder litigation could prevent or delay the closing of the proposed ETC Merger or otherwise negatively impact our business and operations.We have incurred and may continue to incur additional costs in connection with the defense or settlement of the currently pending and any future stockholder litigation in connection with the proposed ETC Merger. Such litigation may adversely affect our ability to complete the proposed ETC Merger and could also have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, including Chesapeake Energy Corporation and its affiliates, and our credit risk management will not be able to completely eliminate such risk.We are subject to the risk of loss resulting from nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of our business. Generally, our customers are rated investment grade, are otherwise considered creditworthy or are required to make prepayments or provide security to satisfy credit concerns. However, our credit procedures and policies will not completely eliminate customer and counterparty credit risk. Our customers and counterparties include industrial customers, local distribution companies, natural gas producers and marketers whose creditworthiness may be suddenly and disparately impacted by, among other factors, commodity price volatility, deteriorating energy market conditions, and public and regulatory opposition to energy producing activities. The current low commodity price environment has, in particular, negatively impacted natural gas producers causing them significant economic stress including, in some cases, to file for bankruptcy protection or to renegotiate contracts.To the extent one or more of our key customers commences bankruptcy proceedings, our contracts with the customers may be subject to rejection under applicable provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code, or may be renegotiated. Further, during any such bankruptcy proceeding, prior to assumption, rejection or renegotiation of such contracts, the bankruptcy court may temporarily authorize the payment of value for our services less than contractually required, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions.  For example, Chesapeake Energy Corporation and its affiliates, which accounted for approximately 18 percent of our 2015 consolidated revenues, have experienced significant, negative financial results due to sustained low commodity prices. If we fail to adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future customers and counterparties or otherwise do not take or are unable to take sufficient mitigating actions, including obtaining sufficient collateral, deterioration in their creditworthiness and any resulting increase in nonpayment and/or nonperformance by them could cause us to write down or write off accounts receivable. Such write-downs or write-offs could negatively affect our operating results in the periods in which they occur, and, if significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.Prices for NGLs, olefins, natural gas, oil and other commodities, are volatile and this volatility has and could continue to adversely affect our financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to maintain our existing businesses. 25Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the value of certain components of our businesses depend primarily upon the prices of NGLs, olefins, natural gas, oil or other commodities, and the differences between prices of these commodities, and could be materially adversely affected by an extended period of current low commodity prices or a further decline in commodity prices. Price volatility has and could continue to impact both the amount we receive for our products and services and the volume of products and services we sell. Prices affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow money or raise additional capital. Price volatility has and could continue to have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The markets for NGLs, olefins, natural gas, oil and other commodities are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices might result from one or more factors beyond our control, including: •Worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas, NGLs, olefins, oil, and related commodities; •Turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions; •The activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries;•The level of consumer demand; •The price and availability of other types of fuels or feedstocks; •The availability of pipeline capacity; •Supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation disruptions; •The price and quantity of foreign imports of natural gas and oil; •Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;  •The credit of participants in the markets where products are bought and sold. Downgrades of our credit ratings, which are determined outside of our control by independent third parties, impact our liquidity, access to capital and our costs of doing business.Our credit ratings have recently been downgraded. Downgrades of our credit ratings  increase our cost of borrowing and could require us to provide collateral to our counterparties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. In addition, our ability to access capital markets could continue to be limited by the downgrading of our credit ratings. Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when assigning credit ratings. This analysis includes a number of criteria such as, business composition, market and operational risks, as well as various financial tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make changes to those criteria from time to time. Credit ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the ratings agencies. As of the date of the filing of this report, we have been assigned sub investment-grade credit ratings by each of the three ratings agencies.Our ability to obtain credit in the future could be affected by WPZ’s credit ratings.A substantial portion of our operations are conducted through, and our cash flows are substantially derived from distributions paid to us by, WPZ. Due to our relationship with WPZ, our ability to obtain credit will be affected by WPZ’s credit ratings. WPZ’s credit ratings have recently been downgraded. If WPZ were to experience a further deterioration in its credit standing or financial condition, our access to capital and our ratings could be further adversely affected. Any future downgrading of a WPZ credit rating could also result in a further downgrading of our credit rating. A downgrading of a WPZ credit rating could limit our ability to obtain financing in the future upon favorable terms, if at all.26The long-term financial condition of our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses is dependent on the continued availability of natural gas supplies in the supply basins that we access, and demand for those supplies in our traditional markets. Our ability to maintain and expand our natural gas transportation and midstream businesses depends on the level of drilling and production by third parties in our supply basins. Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins with access to our pipeline and gathering systems will naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves underlying these existing wells may also be less than anticipated, and the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be greater than anticipated. We do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas and NGL reserves connected to our systems and processing facilities. Accordingly, we do not have independent estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. In addition, low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, or the lack of available capital could adversely affect the development and production of additional natural gas reserves, the installation of gathering, storage, and pipeline transportation facilities and the import and export of natural gas supplies. The competition for natural gas supplies to serve other markets could also reduce the amount of natural gas supply for our customers. A failure to obtain access to sufficient natural gas supplies will adversely impact our ability to maximize the capacities of our gathering, transportation and processing facilities.Demand for our services is dependent on the demand for gas in the markets we serve. Alternative fuel sources such as electricity, coal, fuel oils or nuclear energy could reduce demand for natural gas in our markets and have an adverse effect on our business. A failure to obtain access to sufficient natural gas supplies or a reduction in demand for our services in the markets we serve could result in impairments of our assets and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth. As part of our growth strategy, we consider acquisition opportunities and engage in significant capital projects. We have both a project lifecycle process and an investment evaluation process. These are processes we use to identify, evaluate and execute on acquisition opportunities and capital projects. We may not always have sufficient and accurate information to identify and value potential opportunities and risks or our investment evaluation process may be incomplete or flawed. Regarding potential acquisitions, suitable acquisition candidates may not be available on terms and conditions we find acceptable or, where multiple parties are trying to acquire an acquisition candidate, we may not be chosen as the acquirer. If we are able to acquire a targeted business, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired businesses and realize anticipated benefits in a timely manner. Our growth may also be dependent upon the construction of new natural gas gathering, transportation, compression, processing or treating pipelines and facilities, NGL transportation, fractionation or storage facilities or olefins processing facilities, as well as the expansion of existing facilities. We also face all the risks associated with construction. These risks include the inability to obtain skilled labor, equipment, materials, permits, rights-of-way and other required inputs in a timely manner such that projects are completed on time and the risk that construction cost overruns could cause total project costs to exceed budgeted costs. Additional risks associated with growing our business include, among others, that: •Changing circumstances and deviations in variables could negatively impact our investment analysis, including our projections of revenues, earnings and cash flow relating to potential investment targets, resulting in outcomes which are materially different than anticipated; •We could be required to contribute additional capital to support acquired businesses or assets;•We may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to us, that exceed our estimates and for which contractual protections are either unavailable or prove inadequate; •Acquisitions could disrupt our ongoing business, distract management, divert financial and operational resources from existing operations and make it difficult to maintain our current business standards, controls and procedures;  27•Acquisitions and capital projects may require substantial new capital, including the issuance of debt or equity, and we may not be able to access capital markets or obtain acceptable terms. If realized, any of these risks could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, including the possible impairment of our assets, and could also have an adverse impact on our financial position or cash flows. We do not own all of the interests in the Partially Owned Entities, which could adversely affect our ability to operate and control these assets in a manner beneficial to us. Because we do not control the Partially Owned Entities, we may have limited flexibility to control the operation of or cash distributions received from these entities. The Partially Owned Entities’ organizational documents generally require distribution of their available cash to their members on a quarterly basis; however, in each case, available cash is reduced, in part, by reserves appropriate for operating the businesses. As of December 31, 2015, our investments in the Partially Owned Entities accounted for approximately 8 percent of our total consolidated assets. Conflicts of interest may arise in the future between us, on the one hand, and our Partially Owned Entities, on the other hand, with regard to our Partially Owned Entities’ governance, business and operations. If a conflict of interest arises between us and a Partially Owned Entity, other owners may control the Partially Owned Entity’s actions with respect to such matter (subject to certain limitations), which could be detrimental to our business. Any future disagreements with the other co-owners of these assets could adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic or industry conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Holders of our common stock may not receive dividends in the amount expected or any dividends. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay dividends or maintain current or expected levels of dividends. The actual amount of cash we dividend may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •The amount of cash that WPZ and our other subsidiaries distribute to us; •The amount of cash we generate from our operations, our working capital needs, our level of capital expenditures, and our ability to borrow; •The restrictions contained in our indentures and credit facility and our debt service requirements; •The cost of acquisitions, if any. A failure either to pay dividends or to pay dividends at expected levels could result in a loss of investor confidence, reputational damage and a decrease in the value of our stock price.Our cash flow depends heavily on the earnings and distributions of WPZ.Our partnership interest, including the general partner’s holding of incentive distribution rights in WPZ, is currently our largest cash-generating asset. Therefore, we are, at the least, indirectly exposed to all the risks to which WPZ is subject and  our cash flow is heavily dependent upon the ability of WPZ to make distributions to its partners. A significant decline in WPZ’s earnings and/or distributions would have a corresponding negative impact on us.We may not be able to sell assets or, if we are able to sell assets, to raise a sufficient amount of capital from such asset sales.  In addition, the timing to enter into and close any asset sales could be significantly different than our expected timeline.    In addition to the recent announcement that WPZ plans to monetize assets during 2016 to fund capital and investment expenditures, it is possible that we could also engage in asset sales.  Given the commodity markets, financial markets and other challenges currently facing the energy sector, our competitors may also engage in asset sales leading to lower demand for the assets we wish to sell.  We may not be able to sell the assets we identify for sale on favorable terms or at all.  If we are able to sell assets, the timing of the receipt of the asset sale proceeds may not align with the timing of our capital requirements.  A failure to raise sufficient capital from asset sales or a misalignment of the timing of capital raised and capital funding needs could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 28An impairment of our assets, including goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and/or equity-method investments, could reduce our earnings.GAAP requires us to test certain assets for impairment on either an annual basis or when events or circumstances occur which indicate that the carrying value of such assets might be impaired. If the current depressed energy commodity price environment persists for a prolonged period or further declines, such circumstances could result in additional impairments of our assets beyond those incurred in 2015 including impairments of our goodwill, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and/or equity method investments. Additionally any asset monetization could result in impairments if any assets are sold for amounts less than their carrying value. If we determine that an impairment has occurred, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings.Our industry is highly competitive and increased competitive pressure could adversely affect our business and operating results. We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses, and additional competitors may enter our markets. Some of our competitors are large oil, natural gas and petrochemical companies that have greater access to supplies of natural gas and NGLs than we do. In addition, current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or have greater financial resources than we do, which could affect our ability to make strategic investments or acquisitions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies or to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion or refurbishment of their facilities than we can. Similarly, a highly-liquid competitive commodity market in natural gas and increasingly competitive markets for natural gas services, including competitive secondary markets in pipeline capacity, have developed. As a result, pipeline capacity is being used more efficiently, and peaking and storage services are increasingly effective substitutes for annual pipeline capacity. Failure to successfully compete against current and future competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may not be able to replace, extend, or add additional customer contracts or contracted volumes on favorable terms, or at all, which could affect our financial condition, the amount of cash available to pay dividends, and our ability to grow. We rely on a limited number of customers and producers for a significant portion of our revenues and supply of natural gas and NGLs. Although many of our customers and suppliers are subject to long-term contracts, if we are unable to replace or extend such contracts, add additional customers, or otherwise increase the contracted volumes of natural gas provided to us by current producers, in each case on favorable terms, if at all, our financial condition, growth plans, and the amount of cash available to pay dividends could be adversely affected. Our ability to replace, extend, or add additional customer or supplier contracts, or increase contracted volumes of natural gas from current producers, on favorable terms, or at all, is subject to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •The level of existing and new competition in our businesses or from alternative fuel sources, such as electricity, coal, fuel oils, or nuclear energy; •Natural gas, NGL, and olefins prices, demand, availability and margins in our markets. Higher prices for energy commodities related to our businesses could result in a decline in the demand for those commodities and, therefore, in customer contracts or throughput on our pipeline systems. Also, lower energy commodity prices could negatively impact our ability to maintain or achieve favorable contractual terms, including pricing,  and could also  result in a decline in the production of energy commodities resulting in reduced customer contracts, supply contracts, and throughput on our pipeline systems; •General economic, financial markets and industry conditions; •The effects of regulation on us, our customers and our contracting practices; •Our ability to understand our customers’ expectations, efficiently and reliably deliver high quality services and effectively manage customer relationships. The results of these efforts will impact our reputation and positioning in the market. 29Some of our businesses, including WPZ’s Central business, are exposed to supplier concentration risks arising from dependence on a single or a limited number of suppliers.Some of our businesses may be dependent on a small number of suppliers for delivery of critical goods or services. For instance, pursuant to a compression services agreement, WPZ’s Central business receives a substantial portion of its compression capacity on certain gathering systems from EXLP Operating LLC (“Exterran Operating”). Exterran Operating has, until December 31, 2020, the exclusive right to provide WPZ’s Central business with compression services on certain gas gathering systems located in Wyoming, Texas, Oklahoma, Louisiana, and Arkansas, in return for the payment of specified monthly rates for the services provided, subject to an annual escalation provision. If a supplier on which one of our businesses depends were to fail to timely supply required goods and services such business may not be able to replace such goods and services in a timely manner or otherwise on favorable terms or at all. If our business is unable to adequately diversify or otherwise mitigate such supplier concentration risks and such risks were realized, such businesses could be subject to reduced revenues and increased expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. We will conduct certain operations through joint ventures that may limit our operational flexibility or require us to make additional capital contributions.Some of our operations are conducted through joint venture arrangements, and we may enter additional joint ventures in the future. In a joint venture arrangement, we have less operational flexibility, as actions must be taken in accordance with the applicable governing provisions of the joint venture. In certain cases we:•Have limited ability to influence or control certain day to day activities affecting the operations; •Cannot control the amount of capital expenditures that we are required to fund with respect to these operations; •Are dependent on third parties to fund their required share of capital expenditures; •May be subject to restrictions or limitations on our ability to sell or transfer our interests in the jointly owned assets;  •May be forced to offer rights of participation to other joint venture participants in the area of mutual interest. In addition, joint venture participants may have obligations that are important to the success of the joint venture, such as the obligation to pay substantial carried costs pertaining to the joint venture and to pay their share of capital and other costs of the joint venture. The performance and ability of third parties to satisfy their obligations under joint venture arrangements is outside our control. If these third parties do not satisfy their obligations under these arrangements, our business may be adversely affected. Joint venture partners may be in a position to take actions contrary to instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives, and disputes between us and our joint venture partners may result in delays, litigation or operational impasses. If we fail to make a required capital contribution under the applicable governing provisions of a joint venture arrangements, we could be deemed to be in default under the joint venture agreement. Joint venture partners may be permitted to fund any deficiency resulting from our failure to make such capital contribution, which would result in a dilution of our ownership interest, or such joint venture partners may have the option to purchase all of our existing interest in the subject joint venture.The risks described above or the failure to continue joint ventures, or to resolve disagreements with joint venture partners could adversely affect our ability to conduct our operation that is the subject of a joint venture, which could in turn negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions.There are operational risks associated with the gathering, transporting, storage, processing and treating of natural gas, the fractionation, transportation and storage of NGLs, the processing of olefins, and crude oil transportation and production handling, including: 30•Aging infrastructure and mechanical problems; •Damages to pipelines and pipeline blockages or other pipeline interruptions; •Uncontrolled releases of natural gas (including sour gas), NGLs, olefins products, brine or industrial chemicals; •Collapse or failure of storage caverns; •Operator error; •Damage caused by third-party activity, such as operation of construction equipment; •Pollution and other environmental risks; •Fires, explosions, craterings and blowouts; •Truck and rail loading and unloading;  •Operating in a marine environment. Any of these risks could result in loss of human life, personal injuries, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, loss of services to our customers, reputational damage and substantial losses to us. The location of certain segments of our facilities in or near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. An event such as those described above could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance. We do not insure against all potential risks and losses and could be seriously harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the inability of our insurers to satisfy our claims. In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, risks and losses, and only at levels we believe to be appropriate. We currently maintain excess liability insurance with limits of $820 million per occurrence and in the annual aggregate with a $2 million per occurrence deductible. This insurance covers us, our subsidiaries, and certain of our affiliates for legal and contractual liabilities arising out of bodily injury or property damage, including resulting loss of use to third parties. This excess liability insurance includes coverage for sudden and accidental pollution liability for full limits, with the first $135 million of insurance also providing gradual pollution liability coverage for natural gas and NGL operations.Although we maintain property insurance on certain physical assets that we own, lease or are responsible to insure, the policy may not cover the full replacement cost of all damaged assets or the entire amount of business interruption loss we may experience. In addition, certain perils may be excluded from coverage or be sub-limited. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. We may elect to self-insure a portion of our risks. We do not insure our onshore underground pipelines for physical damage, except at certain locations such as river crossings and compressor stations. Offshore assets are covered for property damage when loss is due to a named windstorm event, but coverage for loss caused by a named windstorm is significantly sub-limited and subject to a large deductible. All of our insurance is subject to deductibles.In addition, to the insurance coverage described above, we are a member of Oil Insurance Limited (“OIL”), an energy industry mutual insurance company, which provides coverage for damage to our property. As an insured member of OIL, we share in the losses among other OIL members even if our property is not damaged. The occurrence of any risks not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and our ability to repay our debt. Our assets and operations, as well as our customers’ assets and operations, can be adversely affected by weather and other natural phenomena. 31Our assets and operations, especially those located offshore, and our customers’ assets and operations can be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, landslides, tornadoes, fires and other natural phenomena and weather conditions, including extreme or unseasonable temperatures, making it more difficult for us to realize the historic rates of return associated with our assets and operations. A significant disruption in our or our customers’ operations or a significant liability for which we are not fully insured could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Given the volatile nature of the commodities we transport, process, store and sell, our assets and the assets of our customers and others in our industry may be targets of terrorist activities. A terrorist attack could create significant price volatility, disrupt our business, limit our access to capital markets or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport or distribute natural gas, NGLs or other commodities. Acts of terrorism, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism, could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and related disruptions. We rely on our information technology infrastructure to process, transmit and store electronic information, including information we use to safely operate our assets. While we believe that we maintain appropriate information security policies, practices and protocols, we face cybersecurity and other security threats to our information technology infrastructure, which could include threats to our operational industrial control systems and safety systems that operate our pipelines, plants and assets. We could face unlawful attempts to gain access to our information technology infrastructure, including coordinated attacks from hackers, whether state-sponsored groups, “hacktivists,” or private individuals. The age, operating systems or condition of our current information technology infrastructure and software assets and our ability to maintain and upgrade such assets could affect our ability to resist cybersecurity threats. We could also face attempts to gain access to information related to our assets through attempts to obtain unauthorized access by targeting acts of deception against individuals with legitimate access to physical locations or information. Breaches in our information technology infrastructure or physical facilities, or other disruptions including those arising from theft, vandalism, fraud or unethical conduct, could result in damage to our assets, unnecessary waste, safety incidents, damage to the environment, reputational damage, potential liability or the loss of contracts, and have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position and results of operations. The natural gas sales, transportation and storage operations of our gas pipelines are subject to regulation by the FERC, which could have an adverse impact on their ability to establish transportation and storage rates that would allow them to recover the full cost of operating their respective pipelines, including a reasonable rate of return. In addition to regulation by other federal, state and local regulatory authorities, under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, interstate pipeline transportation and storage service is subject to regulation by the FERC. Federal regulation extends to such matters as: •Transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate commerce; •Rates, operating terms, types of services and conditions of service; •Certification and construction of new interstate pipelines and storage facilities; •Acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of existing interstate pipelines and storage facilities; •Accounts and records; •Depreciation and amortization policies; 32•Relationships with affiliated companies who are involved in marketing functions of the natural gas business;•Market manipulation in connection with interstate sales, purchases or transportation of natural gas. Regulatory or administrative actions in these areas, including successful complaints or protests against the rates of the gas pipelines, can affect our business in many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues, decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs and otherwise altering the profitability of our pipeline business. Our operations are subject to environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, which may expose us to significant costs, liabilities and expenditures that could exceed expectations. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, tribal and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection, endangered and threatened species, the discharge of materials into the environment and the security of chemical and industrial facilities. Substantial costs, liabilities, delays and other significant issues related to environmental laws and regulations are inherent in the gathering, transportation, storage, processing and treating of natural gas, fractionation, transportation and storage of NGLs, processing of olefins, and crude oil transportation and production handling as well as waste disposal practices and construction activities. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations and permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or revocation of permits, the issuance of injunctions limiting or preventing some or all of our operations and delays in granting permits. Joint and several, strict liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations, for the remediation of contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of materials associated with natural gas, oil and wastes on, under or from our properties and facilities. Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipeline and gathering systems pass and facilities where our wastes are taken for reclamation or disposal, may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage arising from our operations. Some sites at which we operate are located near current or former third-party hydrocarbon storage and processing or oil and natural gas operations or facilities, and there is a risk that contamination has migrated from those sites to ours. We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against, environmental liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities, which might cause us to incur losses.In addition, climate change regulations and the costs associated with the regulation of emissions of greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) have the potential to affect our business. Regulatory actions by the Environmental Protection Agency or the passage of new climate change laws or regulations could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities and (iii) administer and manage our GHG compliance program. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of our costs related to complying with climate change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of and access to capital. Climate change and GHG regulation could also reduce demand for our services. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our pipelines and facilities become unavailable to transport natural gas and NGLs or to treat natural gas, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that provide delivery options to and from our pipelines and facilities for the benefit of our customers. Because we do not own these third-party pipelines or other facilities, their continuing operation is not within our control. If these pipelines or facilities were to become temporarily or 33permanently unavailable for any reason, or if throughput were reduced because of testing, line repair, damage to pipelines or facilities, reduced operating pressures, lack of capacity, increased credit requirements or rates charged by such pipelines or facilities or other causes, we and our customers would have reduced capacity to transport, store or deliver natural gas or NGL products to end use markets or to receive deliveries of mixed NGLs, thereby reducing our revenues. Any temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline interconnect or in operations on third-party pipelines or facilities that would cause a material reduction in volumes transported on our pipelines or our gathering systems or processed, fractionated, treated or stored at our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The operation of our businesses might also be adversely affected by changes in government regulations or in their interpretation or implementation, or the introduction of new laws or regulations applicable to our businesses or our customers. Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry has resulted in the proposal and/or implementation of increased regulations. Such scrutiny has also resulted in various inquiries, investigations and court proceedings, including litigation of energy industry matters. Both the shippers on our pipelines and regulators have rights to challenge the rates we charge under certain circumstances. Any successful challenge could materially affect our results of operations. Certain inquiries, investigations and court proceedings are ongoing. Adverse effects may continue as a result of the uncertainty of ongoing inquiries, investigations and court proceedings, or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings against us, civil or criminal fines and/or penalties, or other regulatory action, including legislation, which might be materially adverse to the operation of our business and our results of operations or increase our operating costs in other ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters, including environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals and similar matters might result in adverse decisions against us which, among other outcomes, could result in the imposition of substantial penalties and fines and could damage our reputation. The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at all by insurance. In addition, existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, and new laws and regulations, including those pertaining to oil and gas hedging and cash collateral requirements, might be adopted or become applicable to us, our customers or our business activities. If new laws or regulations are imposed relating to oil and gas extraction, or if additional levels of reporting, regulation or permitting moratoria are required or imposed, including those related to hydraulic fracturing, the volumes of natural gas and other products that we transport, gather, process and treat could decline and our results of operations could be adversely affected.Certain of our gas pipeline services are subject to long-term, fixed-price contracts that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform such services exceeds the revenues received from such contracts. Our gas pipelines provide some services pursuant to long-term, fixed-price contracts. It is possible that costs to perform services under such contracts will exceed the revenues our pipelines collect for their services. Although most of the services are priced at cost-based rates that are subject to adjustment in rate cases, under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a “negotiated rate” that may be above or below the FERC regulated cost-based rate for that service. These “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject to adjustment for increased costs that could be produced by inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities being used to perform the services. Our operating results for certain components of our business might fluctuate on a seasonal basis. Revenues from certain components of our business can have seasonal characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating results in the future might fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Demand for natural gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our expectations depending on the nature and location of our facilities and pipeline systems and the terms of our natural gas transportation arrangements relative to demand created by unusual weather patterns. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt our operations. 34We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities have been constructed. As such, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs to retain necessary land use. In those instances in which we do not own the land on which our facilities are located, we obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines and gathering systems on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. In addition, some of our facilities cross Native American lands pursuant to rights-of-way of limited term. We may not have the right of eminent domain over land owned by Native American tribes. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the economy in general could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our businesses may be negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions or future disruptions in global financial markets. Included among these potential negative impacts are industrial or economic contraction leading to reduced energy demand and lower prices for our products and services and increased difficulty in collecting amounts owed to us by our customers. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. In addition, financial markets have periodically been affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal and monetary policies. These concerns, as well as actions taken by the U.S. federal government in response to these concerns, could significantly and adversely impact the global and U.S. economies and financial markets, which could negatively impact us in the manners described above. Restrictions in our debt agreements and the amount of our indebtedness may affect our future financial and operating flexibility. Our total outstanding long-term debt (including current portion) as of December 31, 2015, was $23.99 billion.The agreements governing our indebtedness contain covenants that restrict our and our material subsidiaries’ ability to incur certain liens to support indebtedness and our ability to merge or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our assets in certain circumstances. In addition, certain of our debt agreements contain various covenants that restrict or limit, among other things, our ability to make certain distributions during the continuation of an event of default, the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, and our and our material subsidiaries’ ability to enter into certain affiliate transactions and certain restrictive agreements. Certain of our debt agreements also contain, and those we enter into in the future may contain, financial covenants and other limitations with which we will need to comply. Our debt service obligations and the covenants described above could have important consequences. For example, they could: •Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such indebtedness; •Impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures,acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes;•Diminish our ability to withstand a continued or future downturn in our business or the economy generally; •Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, the payments of dividends, general corporate purposes or other purposes;  •Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, including limiting our ability to expand or pursue our business activities and preventing us from engaging in certain transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to us. Our ability to comply with our debt covenants, to repay, extend or refinance our existing debt obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on our operating performance. Our ability to refinance existing debt obligations or obtain future credit will also depend upon the current conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit 35generally. If we are unable to comply with these covenants, meet our debt service obligations or obtain future credit on favorable terms, or at all, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our failure to comply with the covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness could result in events of default, which could render such indebtedness due and payable. We may not have sufficient liquidity to repay our indebtedness in such circumstances. In addition, cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions in our debt agreements could cause a default or acceleration to have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. For more information regarding our debt, please read Note 14 – Debt, Banking Arrangements, and Leases. Institutional knowledge residing with current employees nearing retirement eligibility or with our former employees might not be adequately preserved. We expect that a significant percentage of employees will become eligible for retirement over the next several years. In certain areas of our business, institutional knowledge resides with employees who have many years of service. As these employees reach retirement age or their services are no longer available to us, we may not be able to replace them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. In addition, we may not be able to retain or recruit other qualified individuals, and our efforts at knowledge transfer could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become unavailable to us. Our hedging activities might not be effective and could increase the volatility of our results. In an effort to manage our financial exposure related to commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered, and may in the future enter into contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and operations. In these hedging activities, we have used and may in the future use fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given contract. For example, a forward contract that would be effective in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or performance risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. While we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk within guidelines established by our credit policy, we may not be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash flows and results of operations could be impacted by counterparty default. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of a publicly traded limited partnership, Williams Partners L.P. As such, this subsidiary’s operations may involve a greater risk of liability than ordinary business operations. One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of WPZ, a publicly traded limited partnership. This subsidiary may be deemed to have undertaken contractual obligations with respect to WPZ as the general partner and to the limited partners of WPZ. Activities determined to involve such obligations to other persons or entities typically involve a higher standard of conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interest is found to exist. Our control of the general partner of WPZ may increase the possibility of claims of breach of such duties, including claims brought due to conflicts of interest (including conflicts of interest that may arise between WPZ, on the one hand, and its general partner and that general partner’s affiliates, including us, on the other hand). Any liability resulting from such claims could be material. Our investments and projects located outside of the United States expose us to risks related to the laws of other countries, and the taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates, political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These risks might delay or reduce our realization of value from our international projects. We currently own and might acquire and/or dispose of material energy-related investments and projects outside the United States. The economic, political and legal conditions and regulatory environment in the countries in which we have interests or in which we might pursue acquisition or investment opportunities present risks that are different from or greater than those in the United States. These risks include, among others, delays in construction and interruption of business, as well as risks of renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, including with respect to the prices we realize for the commodities we produce and sell. The uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign countries in which we develop or acquire projects or make investments 36could make it more difficult to obtain nonrecourse project financing or other financing on suitable terms, could adversely affect the ability of certain customers to honor their obligations with respect to such projects or investments and could impair our ability to enforce our rights under agreements relating to such projects or investments. Operations and investments in foreign countries also can present currency exchange rate and convertibility, inflation and repatriation risk. In certain situations under which we develop or acquire projects or make investments, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert to U.S. dollars our earnings denominated in foreign currencies. In addition, risk from fluctuations in currency exchange rates can arise when our foreign subsidiaries expend or borrow funds in one type of currency, but receive revenue in another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can reduce our ability to meet expenses, including debt service obligations. We may or may not put contracts in place designed to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks. We have some exposures that are not hedged and which could result in losses or volatility in our results of operations. Failure of our service providers or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might negatively impact our ability to conduct our business. Certain of our accounting and information technology services are currently provided by third-party vendors, and sometimes from service centers outside of the United States. Services provided pursuant to these agreements could be disrupted. Similarly, the expiration of such agreements or the transition of services between providers could lead to loss of institutional knowledge or service disruptions. Our reliance on others as service providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.The execution of the integration strategy following WPZ’s merger with Access Midstream Partners, L.P. (“ACMP”) in February 2015 (the “ACMP Merger”) may not be successful.The ultimate success of the ACMP Merger will depend, in part, on the ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated benefits from combining these formerly separate businesses. Realizing the benefits of the ACMP Merger will depend in part on the effective integration of assets, operations, functions and personnel while maintaining adequate focus on our core businesses. Any expected cost savings, economies of scale, enhanced liquidity or other operational efficiencies, as well as revenue enhancement opportunities, or other synergies, may not occur.If management is unable to minimize the potential disruption of our ongoing business and the distraction of management during the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the ACMP Merger may not be realized or may only be realized to a lesser extent than expected. In addition, the inability to successfully manage the integration could have an adverse effect on us.The integration process could result in the loss of key employees, as well as the disruption of each of our ongoing businesses or the creation of inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Any or all of those occurrences could adversely affect our businesses’ ability to maintain relationships with service providers, customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the ACMP Merger. Integration may also result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the ACMP Merger and materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.Our costs and funding obligations for our defined benefit pension plans and costs for our other postretirement benefit plans are affected by factors beyond our control. We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S. employees and other post-retirement benefit plans covering certain eligible participants. The timing and amount of our funding requirements under the defined benefit pension plans depend upon a number of factors that we control, including changes to pension plan benefits, as well as factors outside of our control, such as asset returns, interest rates and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors that can significantly increase our funding requirements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If there is a determination that the spin-off of WPX Energy, Inc. (WPX) stock to our stockholders is taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, representations or undertakings underlying an IRS private letter ruling or a tax opinion are incorrect or for any other reason, then we and our stockholders could incur significant income tax liabilities.37In connection with our original separation plan that called for an initial public offering (IPO) of stock of WPX and a subsequent spin-off of our remaining shares of WPX to our stockholders, we obtained a private letter ruling from the IRS and an opinion of our outside tax advisor, to the effect that the distribution by us of WPX shares to our stockholders, and any related restructuring transaction undertaken by us, would not result in recognition for U.S. federal income tax purposes, of income, gain or loss to us or our stockholders under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, except for cash payments made to our stockholders in lieu of fractional shares of WPX common stock. In addition, we received an opinion from our outside tax advisor to the effect that the spin-off pursuant to our revised separation plan which was ultimately consummated on December 31, 2011, which did not involve an IPO of WPX shares, would not result in the recognition, for federal income tax purposes, of income, gain or loss to us or our stockholders under section 355 and section 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, except for cash payments made to our stockholders in lieu of fractional shares of WPX. The private letter ruling and opinion have relied on or will rely on certain facts, representations, and undertakings from us and WPX regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, representations, or undertakings are, or become, incorrect or are not otherwise satisfied, including as a result of certain significant changes in the stock ownership of us or WPX after the spin-off, or if the IRS disagrees with any such facts and representations upon audit, we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the private letter ruling or the opinion of our tax advisor and could be subject to significant income tax liabilities. The spin-off may expose us to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements that we did not assume in our agreements with WPX. The spin-off is subject to review under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. A court could deem the spin-off or certain internal restructuring transactions undertaken by us in connection with the separation to be a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are defined to include transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. A court could void the transactions or impose substantial liabilities upon us, which could adversely affect our financial condition and our results of operations. Whether a transaction is a fraudulent conveyance or transfer will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. Under the separation and distribution agreement between us and WPX, from and after the spin-off, each of WPX and we are responsible for the debts, liabilities and other obligations related to the business or businesses which each owns and operates. Although we do not expect to be liable for any such obligations not expressly assumed by us pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between the parties, and require that we assume responsibility for obligations allocated to WPX, particularly if WPX were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform the subject allocated obligations.Increases in interest rates could adversely impact our share price, our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes, and our ability to make cash dividends at our intended levels. Interest rates may increase further in the future. As a result, interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. As with other yield-oriented securities, our share price will be impacted by the level of our cash distributions and implied distribution yield. The distribution yield is often used by investors to compare and rank yield-oriented securities for investment decision-making purposes. Therefore, changes in interest rates, either positive or negative, may affect the yield requirements of investors who invest in our shares, and a rising interest rate environment could have an adverse impact on our share price and our ability to issue equity or incur debt for acquisitions or other purposes and to pay cash dividends at our intended levels.Item 1B