Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS/RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
    FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF
    THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995


 


    Certain matters contained in this report include
    “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
    section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended. These statements discuss our expected future results
    based on current and pending business operations. We make those
    forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor
    protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995.



    
    19



Table of Contents




    All statements, other than statements of historical facts,
    included in this report which address activities, events or
    developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or
    may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements.
    Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of
    words such as “anticipates,” “believes,”
    “could,” “may,” “should,”
    “continues,” “estimates,”
    “expects,” “forecasts,” “might,”
    “planned,” “potential,”
    “projects,” “scheduled” or similar
    expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among
    others, statements regarding:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    amounts and nature of future capital expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    expansion and growth of our business and operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    business strategy;




 



     
        • 

    
    estimates of proved gas and oil reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    reserve potential;




 



     
        • 

    
    development drilling potential;




 



     
        • 

    
    cash flow from operations or results of operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    seasonality of certain business segments;




 



     
        • 

    
    natural gas and natural gas liquids prices and demand.





 


    Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions,
    uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or
    results to be materially different from those stated or implied
    in this document. Many of the factors that will determine these
    results are beyond our ability to control or project. Specific
    factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in
    the forward-looking statements include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    availability of supplies (including the uncertainties inherent
    in assessing and estimating future natural gas reserves), market
    demand, volatility of prices, and increased costs of capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign exchange, and
    general economic conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the strength and financial resources of our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    development of alternative energy sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    the impact of operational and development hazards;




 



     
        • 

    
    costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government
    regulations including proposed climate change legislation,
    environmental liabilities, litigation, and rate proceedings;




 



     
        • 

    
    changes in the current geopolitical situation;




 



     
        • 

    
    risks related to strategy and financing, including restrictions
    stemming from our debt agreements and future changes in our
    credit ratings;




 



     
        • 

    
    risks associated with future weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    acts of terrorism.





 


    Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our
    actual results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly
    rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any
    obligations to and do not intend to update the above list to
    announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the
    forward-looking statements to reflect future events or
    developments.


 


    In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors
    listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to
    change from those statements of intention set forth in this
    report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our
    results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and
    without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our
    assumptions, or otherwise.



    
    20



Table of Contents




    Because forward-looking statements involve risks and
    uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in
    addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to
    differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
    statements. These factors include the following:


 



    RISK
    FACTORS


 


    You should carefully consider the following risk factors in
    addition to the other information in this report. Each of these
    factors could adversely affect our business, operating results,
    and financial condition as well as adversely affect the value of
    an investment in our securities.


 



    Risks
    Inherent to our Industry and Business


 



    The
    long-term financial condition of our natural gas transportation
    and midstream businesses is dependent on the continued
    availability of natural gas supplies in the supply basins that
    we access, demand for those supplies in our traditional markets,
    and market demand for natural gas.


 


    The development of the additional natural gas reserves that are
    essential for our gas transportation and midstream businesses to
    thrive requires significant capital expenditures by others for
    exploration and development drilling and the installation of
    production, gathering, storage, transportation and other
    facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered
    to our pipeline systems. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory
    limitations, or the lack of available capital for these projects
    could adversely affect the development and production of
    additional reserves, as well as gathering, storage, pipeline
    transportation and import and export of natural gas supplies,
    adversely impacting our ability to fill the capacities of our
    gathering, transportation and processing facilities.
    Additionally, in some cases, new LNG import facilities built
    near our markets could result in less demand for our gathering
    and transportation facilities.


 



    Estimating
    reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties.
    Negative revisions to reserve estimates and oil and gas price
    declines may lead to decreased earnings, losses or impairment of
    oil and gas assets, including related goodwill.


 


    Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating
    underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured
    in an exact manner. Reserves that are “proved
    reserves” are those estimated quantities of crude oil,
    natural gas, and natural gas liquids that geological and
    engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are
    recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing
    economic and operating conditions, but should not be considered
    as a guarantee of results for future drilling projects.


 


    The process relies on interpretations of available geological,
    geophysical, engineering and production data. There are numerous
    uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved
    reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing
    of developmental expenditures, including many factors beyond the
    control of the producer. The reserve data included in this
    report represent estimates. In addition, the estimates of future
    net revenues from our proved reserves and the present value of
    such estimates are based upon certain assumptions about future
    production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be
    correct over time.


 


    Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic
    conditions in existence during the period of assessment. Changes
    to oil and gas prices in the markets for such commodities may
    have the impact of shortening the economic lives of certain
    fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable
    reserves on such fields, which reduces proved property reserve
    estimates.


 


    If negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved
    reserves were to occur, it would have the effect of increasing
    the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the
    affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in
    losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization
    expense. The revisions may also be sufficient to trigger
    impairment losses on certain properties which would result in a
    further non-cash charge to earnings. The revisions could also
    possibly affect the evaluation of Exploration &
    Production’s goodwill for impairment purposes.



    
    21



Table of Contents





    Our
    past success rate for drilling projects and the historic
    performance of our exploration and production business is no
    predictor of future performance.


 


    Our past success rate for drilling projects in 2007 should not
    be considered a predictor of future performance.


 


    Performance of our exploration and production business is
    affected in part by factors beyond our control (any of which
    could cause the results of this business to decrease
    materially), such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    regulations and regulatory approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability of capital for drilling projects which may be
    affected by other risk factors discussed in this report;




 



     
        • 

    
    cost-effective availability of drilling rigs and necessary
    equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability of skilled labor;




 



     
        • 

    
    availability of cost-effective transportation for products;




 



     
        • 

    
    market risks (including price risks and competition) discussed
    in this report.





 



    Our
    drilling, production, gathering, processing and transporting
    activities involve numerous risks that might result in
    accidents, and other operating risks and hazards.


 


    Our operations are subject to all the risks and hazards
    typically associated with the development and exploration for,
    and the production and transportation of oil and gas. These
    operating risks include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    blowouts, cratering and explosions;




 



     
        • 

    
    uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids;




 



     
        • 

    
    fires;




 



     
        • 

    
    formations with abnormal pressures;




 



     
        • 

    
    pollution and other environmental risks;




 



     
        • 

    
    natural disasters.





 


    In addition, there are inherent in our gas gathering, processing
    and transporting properties a variety of hazards and operating
    risks, such as leaks, spills, explosions and mechanical problems
    that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition,
    these risks could result in loss of human life, significant
    damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our
    operations and substantial losses to us. In accordance with
    customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some,
    but not all, of these risks and losses, and only at levels we
    believe to be appropriate. The location of certain segments of
    our pipelines in or near populated areas, including residential
    areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could
    increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. In
    spite of our precautions, an event could cause considerable harm
    to people or property, and could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition, particularly if the event is not
    fully covered by insurance. Accidents or other operating risks
    could further result in loss of service available to our
    customers. Such circumstances could materially impact our
    ability to meet contractual obligations and retain customers,
    with a resulting impact on our results of operations.


 



    Costs
    of environmental liabilities and complying with existing and
    future environmental regulations could exceed our current
    expectations.


 


    Our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation
    pursuant to a variety of federal, provincial, state and
    municipal laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations
    impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and
    obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use,
    storage, extraction, transportation, treatment and disposal of
    hazardous substances and wastes, in connection with spills,
    releases and emissions of



    
    22



Table of Contents




    various substances into the environment, and in connection with
    the operation, maintenance, abandonment and reclamation of our
    facilities.


 


    Compliance with environmental laws requires significant
    expenditures, including for clean up costs and damages arising
    out of contaminated properties. In addition, the possible
    failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations might
    result in the imposition of fines and penalties. We are
    generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the
    environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether
    acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose
    and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with
    certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be
    required to provide indemnification against, environmental
    liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may
    not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be
    required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance
    could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to
    shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities,
    which might cause us to incur losses. Although we do not expect
    that the costs of complying with current environmental laws will
    have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or
    results of operations, no assurance can be given that the costs
    of complying with environmental laws in the future will not have
    such an effect.


 


    Changes in federal laws or regulations could reduce the
    availability or increase the cost of our interstate pipeline
    capacity or gas supply, and thereby reduce our earnings.
    Congress and certain states have for some time been considering
    various forms of legislation related to greenhouse gas
    emissions. There is a possibility that, when and if enacted, the
    final form of such legislation could increase our costs of
    compliance with environmental laws.


 


    We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible
    expenditures related to environmental conditions based on
    current laws and regulations and current interpretations of
    those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or
    regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our
    assumptions may change. Our regulatory rate structure and our
    contracts with customers might not necessarily allow us to
    recover capital costs we incur to comply with the new
    environmental regulations. Also, we might not be able to obtain
    or maintain from time to time all required environmental
    regulatory approvals for certain development projects. If there
    is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory
    approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the
    operation of our facilities could be prevented or become subject
    to additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse
    consequences to our results of operations.


 



    Our
    operating results for certain segments of our business might
    fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.


 


    Revenues from certain segments of our business can have seasonal
    characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for
    natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a
    result, our overall operating results in the future might
    fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Demand for natural
    gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our
    expectations depending on the nature and location of our
    facilities and pipeline systems and the terms of our natural gas
    transportation arrangements relative to demand created by
    unusual weather patterns. Additionally, changes in the price of
    natural gas could benefit one of our business units, but
    disadvantage another. For example, our Exploration &
    Production business may benefit from higher natural gas prices,
    and Midstream, which uses gas as a feedstock, may not.


 



    Risks
    Related to the Current Geopolitical Situation


 



    Our
    investments and projects located outside of the United States
    expose us to risks related to the laws of other countries, and
    the taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates,
    political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These
    risks might delay or reduce our realization of value from our
    international projects.


 


    We currently own and might acquire
    and/or
    dispose of material energy-related investments and projects
    outside the United States. The economic and political conditions
    in certain countries where we have interests or in which we
    might explore development, acquisition or investment
    opportunities present risks of delays in construction and
    interruption of business, as well as risks of war,
    expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions
    or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax
    policy, that are greater than in the United States. The
    uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign
    countries in which we develop or acquire



    
    23



Table of Contents




    projects or make investments could make it more difficult to
    obtain non-recourse project financing or other financing on
    suitable terms, could adversely affect the ability of certain
    customers to honor their obligations with respect to such
    projects or investments and could impair our ability to enforce
    our rights under agreements relating to such projects or
    investments. Recent events in certain South American countries,
    particularly the continued threat of nationalization of certain
    energy-related assets in Venezuela, could have a material
    negative impact on our results of operations. We may not receive
    adequate compensation, or any compensation, if our assets in
    Venezuela are nationalized.


 


    Operations and investments in foreign countries also can present
    currency exchange rate and convertibility, inflation and
    repatriation risk. In certain situations under which we develop
    or acquire projects or make investments, economic and monetary
    conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert
    to U.S. dollars our earnings denominated in foreign
    currencies. In addition, risk from fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates can arise when our foreign subsidiaries expend or
    borrow funds in one type of currency, but receive revenue in
    another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can
    reduce our ability to meet expenses, including debt service
    obligations. We may or may not put contracts in place designed
    to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks. We have some
    exposures that are not hedged and which could result in losses
    or volatility in our results of operations.


 



    Risks
    Related to Strategy and Financing


 



    Our
    debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may adversely
    affect our ability to operate our business.


 


    Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict
    or limit among other things, our ability to create liens, sell
    assets, make certain distributions, repurchase equity and incur
    additional debt. In addition, our debt agreements contain, and
    those we enter into in the future may contain, financial
    covenants and other limitations with which we will need to
    comply. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be
    affected by many events beyond our control, and we cannot assure
    you that our future operating results will be sufficient to
    comply with the covenants or, in the event of a default under
    any of our debt agreements, to remedy that default.


 


    Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements
    and other related transactional documents could result in events
    of default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the
    lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under a
    particular facility to be immediately due and payable and
    terminate all commitments, if any, to extend further credit. An
    event of default or an acceleration under one debt agreement
    could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another
    debt agreement. Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could
    have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise
    from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. If
    an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements
    cross-default, and the lenders under the affected debt
    agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt
    outstanding to us, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay
    amounts outstanding under such debt agreements.


 



    A
    downgrade of our current credit ratings could impact our costs
    of doing business in certain ways and maintaining current credit
    ratings is within the control of independent third
    parties.


 


    A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our cost of
    borrowing. Our ability to access capital markets could also be
    limited by a downgrade of our credit rating and other
    disruptions. Such disruptions could include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    economic downturns;




 



     
        • 

    
    deteriorating capital market conditions generally;




 



     
        • 

    
    declining market prices for natural gas, natural gas liquids and
    other commodities;




 



     
        • 

    
    terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or
    those of other energy companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall health of the energy industry, including the
    bankruptcy or insolvency of other companies.





 


    Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when
    assigning credit ratings. Given the significant changes in
    capital markets and the energy industry over the last few years,
    credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for
    attaining investment grade ratings and make changes to those
    criteria from time to time. Our corporate family credit rating
    and the credit ratings of Transco and Northwest Pipeline were
    raised to investment



    
    24



Table of Contents




    grade in 2007 by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s
    Corporation, and Fitch Ratings, Ltd., and our senior unsecured
    debt ratings were raised to investment grade by Moody’s and
    Fitch. No assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies
    will assign us investment grade ratings even if we meet or
    exceed their criteria for investment grade ratios or that our
    senior unsecured debt rating will be raised to investment grade
    by all of the credit rating agencies.


 



    Prices
    for natural gas liquids, natural gas and other commodities are
    volatile and this volatility could adversely affect our
    financial results, cash flows, access to capital and ability to
    maintain existing businesses.


 


    Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the
    value of certain segments of our businesses depend primarily
    upon the prices we receive for natural gas liquids, natural gas,
    or other commodities, and the differences between prices of
    these commodities. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow
    available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow
    money or raise additional capital.


 


    The markets for natural gas liquids, natural gas and other
    commodities are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide
    fluctuations in prices might result from relatively minor
    changes in the supply of and demand for these commodities,
    market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our
    control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas,
    natural gas liquids, petroleum, and related commodities;




 



     
        • 

    
    turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
    Countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the level of consumer demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of other types of fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    the availability of pipeline capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation
    disruptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    the price and level of foreign imports;




 



     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;




 



     
        • 

    
    volatility in the natural gas markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    the overall economic environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    the credit of participants in the markets where products are
    bought and sold;




 



     
        • 

    
    the adoption of regulations or legislation relating to climate
    change.





 



    We
    might not be able to successfully manage the risks associated
    with selling and marketing products in the wholesale energy
    markets.


 


    Our portfolio of derivative and other energy contracts consists
    of wholesale contracts to buy and sell commodities, including
    contracts for natural gas, natural gas liquids and other
    commodities that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or
    cash throughout the United States. If the values of these
    contracts change in a direction or manner that we do not
    anticipate or cannot manage, it could negatively affect our
    results of operations. In the past, certain marketing and
    trading companies have experienced severe financial problems due
    to price volatility in the energy commodity markets. In certain
    instances this volatility has caused companies to be unable to
    deliver energy commodities that they had guaranteed under
    contract. If such a delivery failure were to occur in one of our
    contracts, we might incur additional losses to the extent of
    amounts, if any, already paid to, or received from,
    counterparties. In addition, in our businesses, we often extend
    credit to our counterparties. Despite performing credit analysis
    prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we
    might not be able to collect amounts



    
    25



Table of Contents




    owed to us. If the counterparty to such a transaction fails to
    perform and any collateral that secures our counterparty’s
    obligation is inadequate, we will suffer a loss.


 


    If we are unable to perform under our energy agreements, we
    could be required to pay damages. These damages generally would
    be based on the difference between the market price to acquire
    replacement energy or energy services and the relevant contract
    price. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy
    markets, such damages could be significant.


 



    Risks
    Related to Regulations that Affect our Industry


 



    Our
    natural gas sales, transmission, and storage operations are
    subject to government regulations and rate proceedings that
    could have an adverse impact on our results of
    operations.


 


    Our interstate natural gas sales, transportation, and storage
    operations conducted through our Gas Pipelines business are
    subject to the FERC’s rules and regulations in accordance
    with the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act
    of 1978. The FERC’s regulatory authority extends to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate
    commerce;




 



     
        • 

    
    rates and charges;




 



     
        • 

    
    construction;




 



     
        • 

    
    acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    accounts and records;




 



     
        • 

    
    depreciation and amortization policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    operating terms and conditions of service.





 


    Regulatory actions in these areas can affect our business in
    many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues,
    decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs and
    otherwise altering the profitability of our business. Regulatory
    decisions could also affect our costs for compression,
    processing and dehydration of natural gas, which could have a
    negative effect on our results of operations.


 


    The FERC has taken certain actions to strengthen market forces
    in the natural gas pipeline industry that have led to increased
    competition throughout the industry. In a number of key markets,
    interstate pipelines are now facing competitive pressure from
    other major pipeline systems, enabling local distribution
    companies and end users to choose a transportation provider
    based on considerations other than location.


 



    Competition
    in the markets in which we operate may adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 


    We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses,
    and additional competitors may enter our markets. Other
    companies with which we compete may be able to respond more
    quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies, or
    to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion or
    refurbishment of their facilities than we can. In addition,
    current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions
    or have greater financial resources than we do, which could
    affect our ability to make investments or acquisitions. There
    can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully
    against current and future competitors and any failure to do so
    could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and
    results of operations.


 



    Expiration
    of firm transportation agreements.


 


    A substantial portion of the operating revenues of our Gas
    Pipelines are generated through firm transportation agreements
    that expire periodically and must be renegotiated and extended
    or replaced. We cannot give any assurance as to whether any of
    these agreements will be extended or replaced or that the terms
    of any renegotiated agreements will be as favorable as the
    existing agreements. Upon the expiration of these agreements,
    should customers turn back or substantially reduce their
    commitments, we could experience a negative effect to our
    results of operations.



    
    26



Table of Contents





    Our
    revenues might decrease if we are unable to gain adequate,
    reliable and affordable access to transportation and
    distribution assets.


 


    We depend on transportation and distribution facilities owned
    and operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver
    the commodities we buy and sell in the wholesale market. If
    transportation is disrupted, if capacity is inadequate, or if
    credit requirements or rates of such utilities or energy
    companies are increased, our ability to sell and deliver
    products might be hindered. Further, although there are laws and
    regulations designed to encourage competition in wholesale
    market transactions, some companies may fail to provide fair and
    equal access to their transportation systems or may not provide
    sufficient transportation capacity for other market participants.


 



    Our
    businesses are subject to complex government regulations. The
    operation of our businesses might be adversely affected by
    changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or
    implementation, or the introduction of new laws or regulations
    applicable to our businesses or our customers.


 


    Existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws
    and regulations might be adopted or become applicable to us, our
    facilities or our customers, and future changes in laws and
    regulations might have a detrimental effect on our business.
    Over the past few years, certain restructured energy markets
    have experienced supply problems and price volatility. In some
    of these markets, proposals have been made by governmental
    agencies and other interested parties to re-regulate areas of
    these markets which have previously been deregulated. Various
    forms of market controls and limitations including price caps
    and bid caps have already been implemented and new controls and
    market restructuring proposals are in various stages of
    development, consideration and implementation. We cannot assure
    you that changes in market structure and regulation will not
    adversely affect our business and results of operations. We also
    cannot assure you that other proposals to re-regulate will not
    be made or that legislative or other attention to these
    restructured energy markets will not cause the deregulation
    process to be delayed or reversed or otherwise adversely affect
    our business and results of operations.


 



    The
    outcome of a pending rate case to set the rates we can charge
    customers on Transco’s pipeline might result in rates that
    do not provide an adequate return on the capital we have
    invested in the Transco pipeline.


 


    We have a pending rate case with the FERC to request changes to
    the rates we charge on Transco. We have sought FERC approval of
    a settlement of the significant issues in the rate case but
    until FERC approves the settlement, the outcome of the rate case
    remains uncertain. There is a risk that rates set by the FERC
    will lower our return on the capital we have invested in our
    assets or might not be adequate to recover increases in
    operating costs. There is also the risk that higher rates will
    cause our customers to look for alternative ways to transport
    their natural gas.


 



    Legal
    and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the
    energy industry and capital markets have adversely affected our
    business and may continue to do so.


 


    Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry and of the
    capital markets has resulted in increased regulation being
    either proposed or implemented. Such scrutiny has also resulted
    in various inquiries, investigations and court proceedings in
    which we are a named defendant. Both the shippers on our
    pipelines and regulators have rights to challenge the rates we
    charge under certain circumstances. Any successful challenge
    could materially affect our results of operations.


 


    Certain inquiries, investigations and court proceedings are
    ongoing and continue to adversely affect our business as a
    whole. We might see these adverse effects continue as a result
    of the uncertainty of these ongoing inquiries and proceedings,
    or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state
    regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we
    cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether
    these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings
    against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other
    regulatory action, including legislation, which might be
    materially adverse to the operation of our business and our
    revenues and net income or increase our operating costs in other
    ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters against us
    arising out of our ongoing and discontinued operations including
    environmental matters, disputes over gas measurement, royalty
    payments, shareholder class action suits, regulatory appeals and
    similar matters might result in adverse decisions



    
    27



Table of Contents




    against us. The result of such adverse decisions, either
    individually or in the aggregate, could be material and may not
    be covered fully or at all by insurance.


 



    Risks
    Related to Accounting Standards


 



    Potential
    changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our
    financial results and disclosures in the future, which might
    change the way analysts measure our business or financial
    performance.


 


    Regulators and legislators continue to take a renewed look at
    accounting practices, financial disclosures, companies’
    relationships with their independent registered public
    accounting firms, and retirement plan practices. We cannot
    predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in accounting
    regulations or practices in general with respect to public
    companies or the energy industry or in our operations
    specifically.


 


    In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) or
    the SEC could enact new accounting standards that might impact
    how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets,
    liabilities and equity.


 



    Risks
    Related to Market Volatility and Risk Measurement and Hedging
    Activities


 



    Our
    risk measurement and hedging activities might not be effective
    and could increase the volatility of our results.


 


    Although we have systems in place that use various methodologies
    to quantify commodity price risk associated with our businesses,
    these systems might not always be followed or might not always
    be effective. Further, such systems do not in themselves manage
    risk, particularly risks outside of our control, and adverse
    changes in energy commodity market prices, volatility, adverse
    correlation of commodity prices, the liquidity of markets,
    changes in interest rates and other risks discussed in this
    report might still adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and
    balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks
    have been identified.


 


    In an effort to manage our financial exposure related to
    commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered into
    contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and
    operations. In these hedging activities, we have used
    fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts,
    futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the
    over-the-counter markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no
    single hedging arrangement can adequately address all risks
    present in a given contract. For example, a forward contract
    that would be effective in hedging commodity price volatility
    risks would not hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or
    performance risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue
    to exist. While we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk
    within guidelines established by our credit policy, we may not
    be able to successfully manage all credit risk and as such,
    future cash flows and results of operations could be impacted by
    counterparty default.


 


    Our use of hedging arrangements through which we attempt to
    reduce the economic risk of our participation in commodity
    markets could result in increased volatility of our reported
    results. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses) of
    derivatives that qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133,
    “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities,” (SFAS 133) to the extent that such
    hedges are not fully effective in offsetting changes to the
    value of the hedged commodity, as well as changes in the fair
    value of derivatives that do not qualify or have not been
    designated as hedges under SFAS 133, must be recorded in
    our income. This creates the risk of volatility in earnings even
    if no economic impact to the Company has occurred during the
    applicable period.


 


    The impact of changes in market prices for natural gas on the
    average gas prices received by us may be reduced based on the
    level of our hedging strategies. These hedging arrangements may
    limit our potential gains if the market prices for natural gas
    were to rise substantially over the price established by the
    hedge. In addition, our hedging arrangements expose us to the
    risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including
    instances in which:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    production is less than expected;




 



     
        • 

    
    the hedging instrument is not perfectly effective in mitigating
    the risk being hedged;




 



     
        • 

    
    the counterparties to our hedging arrangements fail to honor
    their financial commitments.






    
    28



Table of Contents



 



    Risks
    Related to Employees, Outsourcing of Non-Core Support
    Activities, and Technology


 



    Institutional
    knowledge residing with current employees nearing retirement
    eligibility might not be adequately preserved.


 


    In certain segments of our business, institutional knowledge
    resides with employees who have many years of service. As these
    employees reach retirement age, we may not be able to replace
    them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. In
    addition, we may not be able to retain or recruit other
    qualified individuals and our efforts at knowledge transfer
    could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and
    retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts
    of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become
    unavailable to us.


 



    Failure
    of or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might
    negatively impact our ability to conduct our
    business.


 


    Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing
    relationships. Although we have taken steps to build a
    cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with our
    outsourcing providers and to closely monitor their performance,
    a deterioration in the timeliness or quality of the services
    performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or
    part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional
    knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be
    able to conduct our business.


 


    Certain of our accounting, information technology, application
    development, and help desk services are currently provided by an
    outsourcing provider from service centers outside of the United
    States. The economic and political conditions in certain
    countries from which our outsourcing providers may provide
    services to us present similar risks of business operations
    located outside of the United States previously discussed,
    including risks of interruption of business, war, expropriation,
    nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification
    of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are
    greater than in the United States.


 



    Risks
    Related to Weather, other Natural Phenomena and Business
    Disruption


 



    Our
    assets and operations can be adversely affected by weather and
    other natural phenomena.


 


    Our assets and operations, including those located offshore, can
    be adversely affected by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and
    other natural phenomena and weather conditions including extreme
    temperatures, making it more difficult for us to realize the
    historic rates of return associated with these assets and
    operations.


 



    Acts
    of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our assets and the assets of our customers and others may be
    targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our business
    or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or
    partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport
    or distribute natural gas, natural gas liquids or other
    commodities. Acts of terrorism as well as events occurring in
    response to or in connection with acts of terrorism could cause
    environmental repercussions that could result in a significant
    decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or
    remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B