Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors






 



    FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS/RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
    FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF
    THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995


 


    Certain matters contained in this report include
    “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
    section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended. These statements discuss our expected future results
    based on current and pending business operations. We make those
    forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor
    protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995.


 


    All statements, other than statements of historical facts,
    included in this report which address activities, events or
    developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or
    may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements.
    Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of
    words such as “anticipates,” “believes,”
    “could,” “may,” “should,”
    “continues,” “estimates,”
    “expects,” “forecasts,” “might,”
    “planned,” “potential,”
    “projects,” “scheduled” or similar
    expressions. These forward-looking statements include, among
    others, statements regarding:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    amounts and nature of future capital expenditures;



 


     
        • 

    
    expansion and growth of our business and operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    business strategy;






    
    20



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    estimates of proved gas and oil reserves;



 


     
        • 

    
    reserve potential;



 


     
        • 

    
    development drilling potential;



 


     
        • 

    
    cash flow from operations;



 


     
        • 

    
    seasonality of certain business segments;



 


     
        • 

    
    power, natural gas and natural gas liquids prices and demand.





 


    Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions,
    uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or
    results to be materially different from those stated or implied
    in this document. Many of the factors that will determine these
    results are beyond our ability to control or project. Specific
    factors which could cause actual results to differ from those in
    the forward-looking statements include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    availability of supplies (including the uncertainties inherent
    in assessing and estimating future natural gas reserves), market
    demand, volatility of prices, and increased costs of capital;



 


     
        • 

    
    inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign exchange, and
    general economic conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    the strength and financial resources of our competitors;



 


     
        • 

    
    development of alternative energy sources;



 


     
        • 

    
    the impact of operational and development hazards;



 


     
        • 

    
    costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government
    regulations including proposed climate change legislation,
    environmental liabilities, litigation, and rate proceedings;



 


     
        • 

    
    changes in the current geopolitical situation;



 


     
        • 

    
    risks related to strategy and financing, including restrictions
    stemming from our debt agreements and our lack of investment
    grade credit ratings;



 


     
        • 

    
    risk associated with future weather conditions and acts of
    terrorism.





 


    Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our
    actual results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly
    rely on our forward-looking statements. We disclaim any
    obligations to and do not intend to update the above list to
    announce publicly the result of any revisions to any of the
    forward-looking statements to reflect future events or
    developments.


 


    In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors
    listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to
    change from those statements of intention set forth in this
    report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our
    results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and
    without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our
    assumptions, or otherwise.


 


    Because forward-looking statements involve risks and
    uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in
    additions to those listed above, that may cause actual results
    to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
    statements. These factors include the following:


 



    RISK
    FACTORS


 


    You should carefully consider the following risk factors in
    addition to the other information in this report. Each of these
    factors could adversely affect our business, operating results,
    and financial condition as well as adversely affect the value of
    an investment in our securities.



    
    21



Table of Contents



 



    Risks
    Inherent to our Industry and Business


 



    The
    long-term financial condition of our natural gas transmission
    and midstream businesses is dependent on the continued
    availability of natural gas supplies in the supply basins that
    we access, demand for those supplies in our traditional markets,
    and market demand for natural gas.


 


    The development of the additional natural gas reserves that are
    essential for our gas transmission and midstream businesses to
    thrive requires significant capital expenditures by others for
    exploration and development drilling and the installation of
    production, gathering, storage, transportation and other
    facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered
    to our pipeline systems. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory
    limitations, or the lack of available capital for these projects
    could adversely affect the development and production of
    additional reserves, as well as gathering, storage, pipeline
    transmission and import and export of natural gas supplies,
    adversely impacting our ability to fill the capacities of our
    gathering, transmission and processing facilities. Additionally,
    in some cases, new LNG import facilities built near our markets
    could result in less demand for our gathering and transmission
    facilities.


 



    Estimating
    reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties.
    Negative revisions to reserve estimates and oil and gas price
    declines may lead to decreased earnings, losses or impairment of
    oil and gas assets.


 


    Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating
    underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured
    in an exact manner. Reserves that are “proved
    reserves” are those estimated quantities of crude oil,
    natural gas, and natural gas liquids that geological and
    engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are
    recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing
    economic and operating conditions, but should not be considered
    as a guarantee of results for future drilling projects.


 


    The process relies on interpretations of available geological,
    geophysical, engineering and production data. There are numerous
    uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved
    reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing
    of developmental expenditures, including many factors beyond the
    control of the producer. The reserve data included in this
    report represent estimates. In addition, the estimates of future
    net revenues from our proved reserves and the present value of
    such estimates are based upon certain assumptions about future
    production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be
    correct over time.


 


    Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic
    conditions in existence during the period of assessment. Lower
    oil and gas prices may have the impact of shortening the
    economic lives of certain fields because it becomes uneconomic
    to produce all recoverable reserves on such fields, which
    reduces proved property reserve estimates.


 


    If negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved
    reserves were to occur, it would have the effect of increasing
    the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the
    affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in
    losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization
    expense. The revisions may also be sufficient to trigger
    impairment losses on certain properties which would result in a
    further non-cash charge to earnings. The revisions could also
    possibly affect the evaluation of Exploration &
    Production’s goodwill for impairment purposes.


 



    Our
    past success rate for drilling projects and the historic
    performance of our exploration and production business is no
    predictor of future performance.


 


    Our past success rate for drilling projects in 2006 should not
    be considered a predictor of future performance.


 


    Performance of our exploration and production business is
    affected in part by factors beyond our control (any of which
    could cause the results of this business to decrease
    materially), such as:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    regulations and regulatory approvals;



 


     
        • 

    
    availability of capital for drilling projects which may be
    affected by other risk factors discussed in this report;



 


     
        • 

    
    cost-effective availability of drilling rigs and necessary
    equipment;






    
    22



Table of Contents



 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    availability of skilled labor;



 


     
        • 

    
    availability of cost-effective transportation for products;



 


     
        • 

    
    market risks (including price risks and competition) discussed
    in this report.





 



    Our
    drilling, production, gathering, processing and transporting
    activities involve numerous risks that might result in
    accidents, and other operating risks and hazards.


 


    Our operations are subject to all the risks and hazards
    typically associated with the development and exploration for,
    and the production and transportation of oil and gas. These
    operating risks include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    blowouts, cratering and explosions;



 


     
        • 

    
    uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids;



 


     
        • 

    
    fires;



 


     
        • 

    
    formations with abnormal pressures;



 


     
        • 

    
    pollution and other environmental risks;



 


     
        • 

    
    natural disasters.





 


    In addition, there are inherent in our gas gathering, processing
    and transporting properties a variety of hazards and operating
    risks, such as leaks, spills, explosions and mechanical problems
    that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition,
    these risks could result in loss of human life, significant
    damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our
    operations and substantial losses to us. In accordance with
    customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some,
    but not all, of these risks and losses, and only at levels we
    believe to be appropriate. The location of certain segments of
    our pipelines in or near populated areas, including residential
    areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could
    increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. In
    spite of our precautions, an event could cause considerable harm
    to people or property, and could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition and results of operations,
    particularly if the event is not fully covered by insurance.
    Accidents or other operating risks could further result in loss
    of service available to our customers. Such circumstances could
    materially impact our ability to meet contractual obligations
    and retain customers, with a resulting impact on our results of
    operations.


 



    Costs
    of environmental liabilities and complying with existing and
    future environmental regulations could exceed our current
    expectations.


 


    Our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation
    pursuant to a variety of federal, provincial, state and
    municipal laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations
    impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and
    obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use,
    storage, extraction, transportation, treatment and disposal of
    hazardous substances and wastes, in connection with spills,
    releases and emissions of various substances into the
    environment, and in connection with the operation, maintenance,
    abandonment and reclamation of our facilities.


 


    Compliance with environmental laws requires significant
    expenditures, including for clean up costs and damages arising
    out of contaminated properties. In addition, the possible
    failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations might
    result in the imposition of fines and penalties. We are
    generally responsible for all liabilities associated with the
    environmental condition of our facilities and assets, whether
    acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose
    and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with
    certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could acquire, or be
    required to provide indemnification against, environmental
    liabilities that could expose us to material losses, which may
    not be covered by insurance. In addition, the steps we could be
    required to take to bring certain facilities into compliance
    could be prohibitively expensive, and we might be required to
    shut down, divest or alter the operation of those facilities,
    which might cause us to incur losses. Although we do not expect
    that the costs of complying with current environmental laws will
    have a material adverse effect on



    
    23



Table of Contents




    our financial condition or results of operations, no assurance
    can be given that the costs of complying with environmental laws
    in the future will not have such an effect.


 


    We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible
    expenditures related to environmental conditions based on
    current laws and regulations and current interpretations of
    those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or
    regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our
    assumptions may change. Our regulatory rate structure and our
    contracts with customers might not necessarily allow us to
    recover capital costs we incur to comply with the new
    environmental regulations. Also, we might not be able to obtain
    or maintain from time to time all required environmental
    regulatory approvals for certain development projects. If there
    is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory
    approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the
    operation of our facilities could be prevented or become subject
    to additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse
    consequences to our results of operations.


 



    Our
    operating results for certain segments of our business might
    fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.


 


    Revenues from certain segments of our business, including gas
    transmission and the sale of electric power, can have seasonal
    characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for power
    peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking
    at that time. In other areas, demand for power peaks during the
    winter. In addition, demand for natural gas and other fuels
    peaks during the winter. As a result, our overall operating
    results in the future might fluctuate substantially on a
    seasonal basis. Demand for natural gas and other fuels could
    vary significantly from our expectations depending on the nature
    and location of our facilities and pipeline systems and the
    terms of our power sale agreements and natural gas transmission
    arrangements relative to demand created by unusual weather
    patterns. Additionally, changes in the price of natural gas
    could benefit one of our business units, but disadvantage
    another. For example, our Exploration & Production
    business may benefit from higher natural gas prices, and Power,
    which uses gas as a fuel source, may not.


 



    Risks
    Related to the Current Geopolitical Situation


 



    Our
    investments and projects located outside of the United States
    expose us to risks related to the laws of other countries, and
    the taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates,
    political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These
    risks might delay or reduce our realization of value from our
    international projects.


 


    We currently own and might acquire
    and/or
    dispose of material energy-related investments and projects
    outside the United States. The economic and political conditions
    in certain countries where we have interests or in which we
    might explore development, acquisition or investment
    opportunities present risks of delays in construction and
    interruption of business, as well as risks of war,
    expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions
    or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax
    policy, that are greater than in the United States. The
    uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign
    countries in which we develop or acquire projects or make
    investments could make it more difficult to obtain non-recourse
    project financing or other financing on suitable terms, could
    adversely affect the ability of certain customers to honor their
    obligations with respect to such projects or investments and
    could impair our ability to enforce our rights under agreements
    relating to such projects or investments. Recent events in
    certain South American countries, particularly the proposed
    nationalization of certain energy-related assets in Venezuela,
    could have a material negative impact on our results of
    operations. We may not receive adequate compensation, or any
    compensation, if our assets in Venezuela are nationalized.


 


    Operations and investments in foreign countries also can present
    currency exchange rate and convertibility, inflation and
    repatriation risk. In certain situations under which we develop
    or acquire projects or make investments, economic and monetary
    conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert
    to U.S. dollars our earnings denominated in foreign
    currencies. In addition, risk from fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates can arise when our foreign subsidiaries expend or
    borrow funds in one type of currency, but receive revenue in
    another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can
    reduce our ability to meet expenses, including debt service
    obligations. Foreign currency risk can also arise when the
    revenues received by our foreign subsidiaries are not in
    U.S. dollars. In such cases, a strengthening of the
    U.S. dollar or a weakening of the foreign currency could
    reduce the amount of



    
    24



Table of Contents




    cash and income we receive from these foreign subsidiaries. We
    have put contracts in place designed to mitigate our most
    significant foreign currency exchange risks. We have some
    exposures that are not hedged and which could result in losses
    or volatility in our results of operations.


 



    Risks
    Related to Strategy and Financing


 



    Our
    debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may adversely
    affect our ability to operate our business.


 


    Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict
    or limit among other things, our ability to create liens, sell
    assets, make certain distributions, repurchase equity and incur
    additional debt. In addition, our debt agreements contain, and
    those we enter into in the future may contain, financial
    covenants and other limitations with which we will need to
    comply. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be
    affected by many events beyond our control, and we cannot assure
    you that our future operating results will be sufficient to
    comply with the covenants or, in the event of a default under
    any of our debt agreements, to remedy that default.


 


    Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements
    and other related transactional documents could result in events
    of default. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, the
    lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under a
    particular facility to be immediately due and payable and
    terminate all commitments, if any, to extend further credit. An
    event of default or an acceleration under one debt agreement
    could cause a cross-default or cross-acceleration of another
    debt agreement. Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could
    have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise
    from a default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. If
    an event of default occurs, or if other debt agreements
    cross-default, and the lenders under the affected debt
    agreements accelerate the maturity of any loans or other debt
    outstanding to us, we may not have sufficient liquidity to repay
    amounts outstanding under such debt agreements.


 



    Our
    lack of investment grade credit ratings increases our costs of
    doing business in certain ways and attainment of an investment
    grade rating is within the control of independent third
    parties.


 


    Because we do not have an investment grade credit rating, our
    transactions in each of our businesses require greater credit
    assurances, both to be given from, and received by, us to
    satisfy credit support requirements. In addition, we are more
    vulnerable to the impact of market disruptions or a further
    downgrade of our credit rating that might further increase our
    cost of borrowing or further impair our ability to access
    capital markets. Such disruptions could include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    economic downturns;



 


     
        • 

    
    deteriorating capital market conditions generally;



 


     
        • 

    
    declining market prices for electricity and natural gas;



 


     
        • 

    
    terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or
    those of other energy companies;



 


     
        • 

    
    the overall health of the energy industry, including the
    bankruptcy or insolvency of other companies.





 


    Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when
    assigning credit ratings. Given the significant changes in
    capital markets and the energy industry over the last few years,
    credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria for
    attaining investment grade ratings and make changes to those
    criteria from time to time. Our goal is to attain investment
    grade ratios. However, there is no guarantee that the credit
    rating agencies will assign us investment grade ratings even if
    we meet or exceed their criteria for investment grade ratios.


 



    Long-term
    power generation purchase contracts without corresponding
    long-term purchase sale contracts might expose us to
    fluctuations in the wholesale power markets and negatively
    affect our results of operations.


 


    We have entered into agreements with certain power generation
    facilities to purchase all or a substantial portion of their
    generation capacity. These facilities operate as
    “merchant” facilities, many without corresponding
    long-term power sales agreements, and therefore are exposed to
    market fluctuations. Without the benefit of such



    
    25



Table of Contents




    long-term power sales agreements, we cannot be sure that we will
    be able to sell any or all of the power generated by these
    facilities at commercially attractive rates or that these power
    generation relationships will be profitable.


 


    We sell all or a portion of the energy, capacity and other
    products from certain generation facilities to wholesale power
    markets, including energy markets operated by independent system
    operators, or ISOs, or regional transmission organizations, or
    RTOs, as well as wholesale purchasers. We are not subject to
    traditional cost-based regulation, therefore we sell electric
    generation capacity, power and ancillary services to wholesale
    purchasers at prices determined by the market. As a result, we
    are not guaranteed any rate of return on our capital investments
    through mandated rates, and our revenues and results of
    operations depend upon current and forward market prices for
    power.


 



    Prices
    for electricity, natural gas liquids, natural gas and other
    commodities are volatile and this volatility could adversely
    affect our financial results, cash flows, access to capital and
    ability to maintain existing businesses.


 


    Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the
    value of our power and gas businesses depend primarily upon the
    prices we receive for electricity, natural gas liquids, natural
    gas, or other commodities, and the differences between prices of
    these commodities. Prices also affect the amount of cash flow
    available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow
    money or raise additional capital. In particular, market prices
    for power, generation capacity and ancillary services tend to
    fluctuate substantially. Unlike other commodities, electricity
    can only be stored on a very limited basis and generally must be
    produced concurrently with its use. As a result, market prices
    for electricity are subject to significant volatility from
    supply and demand imbalances, especially in the day-ahead and
    spot markets.


 


    The markets for electricity, natural gas liquids, and natural
    gas are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in
    prices might result from relatively minor changes in the supply
    of and demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and
    other factors that are beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for electricity,
    natural gas, petroleum, and related commodities;



 


     
        • 

    
    turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions;



 


     
        • 

    
    terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets;



 


     
        • 

    
    weather conditions;



 


     
        • 

    
    the level of consumer demand;



 


     
        • 

    
    the development of federal and state power markets, including
    actions of ISOs and RTOs;



 


     
        • 

    
    the price and availability of other types of fuels;



 


     
        • 

    
    the availability of pipeline capacity;



 


     
        • 

    
    supply disruptions, including plant outages and transmission
    disruptions;



 


     
        • 

    
    the price and level of foreign imports;



 


     
        • 

    
    domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;



 


     
        • 

    
    volatility in the natural gas markets;



 


     
        • 

    
    the overall economic environment;



 


     
        • 

    
    the credit of participants in the markets where products are
    bought and sold.





 



    We
    might not be able to successfully manage the risks associated
    with selling and marketing products in the wholesale energy
    markets.


 


    Our portfolio of derivative and other energy contracts consists
    of wholesale contracts to buy and sell commodities, including
    contracts for electricity, natural gas, natural gas liquids and
    other commodities that are



    
    26



Table of Contents




    settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash throughout the
    United States. If the values of these contracts change in a
    direction or manner that we do not anticipate or cannot manage,
    it could negatively affect our results of operations. In the
    past, certain marketing and trading companies have experienced
    severe financial problems due to price volatility in the energy
    commodity markets. In certain instances this volatility has
    caused companies to be unable to deliver energy commodities that
    they had guaranteed under contract. If such a delivery failure
    were to occur in one of our contracts, we might incur additional
    losses to the extent of amounts, if any, already paid to, or
    received from, counterparties. In addition, in our businesses,
    we often extend credit to our counterparties. Despite performing
    credit analysis prior to extending credit, we are exposed to the
    risk that we might not be able to collect amounts owed to us. If
    the counterparty to such a financing transaction fails to
    perform and any collateral that secures our counterparty’s
    obligation is inadequate, we will suffer a loss.


 


    If we are unable to perform under our energy agreements, we
    could be required to pay damages. These damages generally would
    be based on the difference between the market price to acquire
    replacement energy or energy services and the relevant contract
    price. Depending on price volatility in the wholesale energy
    markets, such damages could be significant.


 



    Risks
    Related to Regulations that Affect our Industry


 



    Our
    natural gas sales, transmission, and storage operations are
    subject to government regulations and rate proceedings that
    could have an adverse impact on our results of
    operations.


 


    Our interstate natural gas sales, transmission, and storage
    operations conducted through our Gas Pipelines business are
    subject to the FERC’s rules and regulations in accordance
    with the Natural Gas Act of 1938 and the Natural Gas Policy Act
    of 1978. The FERC’s regulatory authority extends to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate
    commerce;



 


     
        • 

    
    rates and charges;



 


     
        • 

    
    construction;



 


     
        • 

    
    acquisition, extension or abandonment of services or facilities;



 


     
        • 

    
    accounts and records;



 


     
        • 

    
    depreciation and amortization policies;



 


     
        • 

    
    operating terms and conditions of service.





 


    Regulatory actions in these areas can affect our business in
    many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues,
    decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs and
    otherwise altering the profitability of our business.


 


    The FERC has taken certain actions to strengthen market forces
    in the natural gas pipeline industry that have led to increased
    competition throughout the industry. In a number of key markets,
    interstate pipelines are now facing competitive pressure from
    other major pipeline systems, enabling local distribution
    companies and end users to choose a transmission provider based
    on considerations other than location.


 



    Competition
    in the markets in which we operate may adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 


    We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses,
    and additional competitors may enter our markets. Other
    companies with which we compete may be able to respond more
    quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies, or
    to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion or
    refurbishment of their facilities than we can. In addition,
    current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions
    or have greater financial resources than we do, which could
    affect our ability to make investments or acquisitions. There
    can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully
    against current and future competitors and any failure to do so
    could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and
    results of operations.



    
    27



Table of Contents



 



    Expiration
    of firm transportation agreements.


 


    A substantial portion of the operating revenues of our Gas
    Pipelines are generated through firm transportation agreements
    that expire periodically and must be renegotiated and extended
    or replaced. We cannot give any assurance as to whether any of
    these agreements will be extended or replaced or that the terms
    of any renegotiated agreements will be as favorable as the
    existing agreements. Upon the expiration of these agreements,
    should customers turn back or substantially reduce their
    commitments, we could experience a negative effect to our
    results of operations.


 



    Our
    revenues might decrease if we are unable to gain adequate,
    reliable and affordable access to transmission and distribution
    assets due to regulation by the FERC and regional authorities of
    wholesale market transactions for electricity and natural
    gas.


 


    We depend on transmission and distribution facilities owned and
    operated by utilities and other energy companies to deliver the
    electricity and natural gas we buy and sell in the wholesale
    market. If transmission is disrupted, if capacity is inadequate,
    or if credit requirements or rates of such utilities or energy
    companies are increased, our ability to sell and deliver
    products might be hindered. The FERC has issued power
    transmission regulations that require wholesale electric
    transmission services to be offered on an open-access,
    non-discriminatory basis. Although these regulations are
    designed to encourage competition in wholesale market
    transactions for electricity, some companies may fail to provide
    fair and equal access to their transmission systems or may not
    provide sufficient transmission capacity to enable other
    companies to transmit electric power.


 


    In addition, the independent system operators who oversee the
    transmission systems in regional power markets, such as
    California, have in the past been authorized to impose, and
    might continue to impose, price limitations and other mechanisms
    to address volatility in the power markets. These types of price
    limitations and other mechanisms might adversely impact the
    profitability of our wholesale power marketing and trading.
    Given the extreme volatility and lack of meaningful long-term
    price history in many of these markets and the imposition of
    price limitations by regulators, ISOs, RTOs or other marker
    operators, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to
    operate profitably in all wholesale power markets or that our
    results of operations will not be adversely affected by the
    actions of these parties.


 



    Our
    businesses are subject to complex government regulations. The
    operation of our businesses might be adversely affected by
    changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or
    implementation.


 


    Existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws
    and regulations might be adopted or become applicable to us or
    our facilities, and future changes in laws and regulations might
    have a detrimental effect on our business. Over the past few
    years, certain restructured energy markets have experienced
    supply problems and price volatility. In some of these markets,
    proposals have been made by governmental agencies and other
    interested parties to re-regulate areas of these markets which
    have previously been deregulated. Various forms of market
    controls and limitations including price caps and bid caps have
    already been implemented and new controls and market
    restructuring proposals are in various stages of development,
    consideration and implementation. We cannot assure you that
    changes in market structure and regulation will not adversely
    affect our business and results of operations. We also cannot
    assure you that other proposals to re-regulate will not be made
    or that legislative or other attention to these restructured
    energy markets will not cause the deregulation process to be
    delayed or reversed or otherwise adversely affect our business
    and results of operations.


 



    The
    outcome of pending rate cases to set the rates we can charge
    customers on certain of our pipelines might result in rates that
    do not provide an adequate return on the capital we have
    invested in those pipelines.


 


    We have filed rate cases with the FERC to request changes to the
    rates we charge on Northwest Pipeline and Transco. Although we
    have a pending settlement of our Northwest Pipeline rate case,
    we must still obtain approval of the settlement. Therefore, the
    outcome of both rate cases remains uncertain. There is a risk
    that rates set by the FERC will be lower than is necessary to
    provide us with an adequate return on the capital we have
    invested in these



    
    28



Table of Contents




    assets. There is also the risk that higher rates will cause our
    customers to look for alternative ways to transport their
    natural gas.


 



    Legal
    and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the
    energy industry and capital markets have adversely affected our
    business and may continue to do so.


 


    Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry and of the
    capital markets has resulted in increased regulation being
    either proposed or implemented. Such scrutiny has also resulted
    in various inquiries, investigations and court proceedings in
    which we are a named defendant. Both the shippers on our
    pipelines and regulators have rights to challenge the rates we
    charge under certain circumstances. Any successful challenge
    could materially affect our results of operations.


 


    Certain inquiries, investigations and court proceedings are
    ongoing and continue to adversely affect our business as a
    whole. We might see these adverse effects continue as a result
    of the uncertainty of these ongoing inquiries and proceedings,
    or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state
    regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we
    cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether
    these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings
    against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other
    regulatory action, including legislation, which might be
    materially adverse to the operation of our business and our
    revenues and net income or increase our operating costs in other
    ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters against us
    arising out of our ongoing and discontinued operations including
    environmental matters, disputes over gas measurement, royalty
    payments, shareholder class action suits, regulatory appeals and
    similar matters might result in adverse decisions against us.
    The result of such adverse decisions, either individually or in
    the aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or
    at all by insurance.


 



    Risks
    Related to Accounting Standards


 



    Potential
    changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our
    financial results and disclosures in the future, which might
    change the way analysts measure our business or financial
    performance.


 


    Accounting irregularities discovered in the past few years
    across various industries have forced regulators and legislators
    to take a renewed look at accounting practices, financial
    disclosures, companies’ relationships with their
    independent registered public accounting firms and retirement
    plan practices. We cannot predict the ultimate impact of any
    future changes in accounting regulations or practices in general
    with respect to public companies or the energy industry or in
    our operations specifically.


 


    In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) or
    the SEC could enact new accounting standards that might impact
    how we are required to record revenues, expenses, assets,
    liabilities and equity.


 



    Risks
    Related to Market Volatility and Risk Measurement and Hedging
    Activities


 



    Our
    risk measurement and hedging activities might not be effective
    and could increase the volatility of our results.


 


    We manage our commodity price risk for our unregulated
    businesses as a whole. Although we have systems in place that
    use various methodologies to quantify risk, these systems might
    not always be followed or might not always be effective.
    Further, such systems do not in themselves manage risk,
    particularly risks outside of our control, and adverse changes
    in energy commodity market prices, volatility, adverse
    correlation of commodity prices, the liquidity of markets,
    changes in interest rates and other risks discussed in this
    report might still adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and
    balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks
    have been identified.


 


    In an effort to manage our financial exposure related to
    commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered into
    contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and
    operations, including our long-term tolling agreements. In these
    hedging activities, we have used fixed-price, forward, physical
    purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps and
    option contracts traded in the
    over-the-counter
    markets or on exchanges, as well as long-term structured
    transactions when feasible. Nevertheless, no single hedging
    arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given
    contract. For example, a forward contract that would be
    effective



    
    29



Table of Contents




    in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not hedge the
    tolling contract’s counterparty credit or performance risk.
    Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist. While
    we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk within guidelines
    established by our credit policy, we may not be able to
    successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash
    flows and results of operations could be impacted by
    counterparty default.


 


    Our use of hedging arrangements through which we attempt to
    reduce the economic risk of our participation in commodity
    markets could result in increased volatility of our reported
    results and could also result in reported cash flows in future
    years not reflecting the realization of increases in the fair
    value of derivatives that have already been reflected in our
    income statements. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses)
    of derivatives that qualify as hedges under
    SFAS No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities,”
    (SFAS 133) to the extent that such hedges are not
    fully effective in offsetting changes to the value of the hedged
    commodity, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives
    that do not qualify as hedges under SFAS 133, must be
    recorded in our income. This creates the risk of volatility in
    earnings even if no economic impact to the Company has occurred
    during the applicable period. During the period from 2002 to
    2004 when our Power business was for sale, most changes in the
    fair value of derivatives used in our Power business were
    reflected in our earnings as net forward unrealized
    mark-to-market
    gains. As a result, in future periods if the cash benefits
    associated with those hedges are actually realized, the value
    will not be reflected as earnings on our income statement,
    having already been recorded as earnings in prior years.


 


    The impact of changes in market prices for natural gas on the
    average gas prices received by us may be reduced based on the
    level of our hedging strategies. These hedging arrangements may
    limit our potential gains if the market prices for natural gas
    were to rise substantially over the price established by the
    hedge. In addition, our hedging arrangements expose us to the
    risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including
    instances in which:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    production is less than expected;



 


     
        • 

    
    a change in the difference between published price indexes
    established by pipelines in which our hedged production is
    delivered and the reference price established in the hedging
    arrangements is such that we are required to make payments to
    our counterparties;



 


     
        • 

    
    the counterparties to our hedging arrangements fail to honor
    their financial commitments.





 



    Risks
    Related to Employees, Outsourcing of Non-Core Support
    Activities, and Technology


 



    Institutional
    knowledge residing with current employees nearing retirement
    eligibility might not be adequately preserved.


 


    In certain segments of our business, institutional knowledge
    resides with employees who have many years of service. As these
    employees reach retirement age, we may not be able to replace
    them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. In
    addition, we may not be able to retain or recruit other
    qualified individuals and our efforts at knowledge transfer
    could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and
    retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts
    of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become
    unavailable to us.


 



    Failure
    of the outsourcing relationships might negatively impact our
    ability to conduct our business.


 


    Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing
    relationships. Although we have taken steps to build a
    cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with our
    outsourcing providers and to closely monitor their performance,
    a deterioration in the timeliness or quality of the services
    performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or
    part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional
    knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be
    able to conduct our business.



    
    30



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    ability to receive services from outsourcing provider locations
    outside of the United States might be impacted by cultural
    differences, political instability, or unanticipated regulatory
    requirements in jurisdictions outside the United
    States.


 


    Certain of our accounting, information technology, application
    development, and helpdesk services are currently provided by an
    outsourcing provider from service centers outside of the United
    States. The economic and political conditions in certain
    countries from which our outsourcing providers may provide
    services to us present similar risks of business operations
    located outside of the United States previously discussed,
    including risks of interruption of business, war, expropriation,
    nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification
    of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are
    greater than in the United States.


 



    Our
    current information technology infrastructure is aging and may
    adversely affect our ability to conduct our
    business.


 


    Limited capital spending for information technology
    infrastructure during
    2001-2003
    resulted in an aging server environment that may be less
    efficient, may require more personnel and capital resources to
    maintain and upgrade than more current systems, and may not be
    adequate for our current business needs. While efforts are
    ongoing to update the environment, the current age and condition
    of equipment could result in loss of internal and external
    communications, loss of data, inability to access data when
    needed, excessive software downtime (including downtime for
    critical software applications), and other disruptions that
    could have a material adverse impact on our business and results
    of operations.


 



    Risks
    Related to Weather, other Natural Phenomena and Business
    Disruption


 



    Our
    assets and operations can be adversely affected by weather and
    other natural phenomena.


 


    Our assets and operations, including those located offshore, can
    be adversely affected by hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes and
    other natural phenomena and weather conditions including extreme
    temperatures, making it more difficult for us to realize the
    historic rates of return associated with these assets and
    operations.


 



    Acts
    of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our assets and the assets of our customers and others may be
    targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our business
    or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or
    partial disruption to our ability to generate, produce, process,
    transmit, transport or distribute electricity, natural gas or
    natural gas liquids. Acts of terrorism as well as events
    occurring in response to or in connection with acts of terrorism
    could cause environmental repercussions that could result in a
    significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction
    or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect
    on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1B