Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors






 



    FORWARD-LOOKING
    STATEMENTS/RISK FACTORS AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
    FOR PURPOSES OF THE “SAFE HARBOR” PROVISIONS OF
    THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995


 


    Certain matters contained in this report include
    “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
    Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
    Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
    amended. These forward-looking statements relate to anticipated
    financial performance, management’s plans and objectives
    for future operations, business prospects, outcome of regulatory
    proceedings, market conditions and other matters. We make these
    forward-looking statements in reliance on the safe harbor
    protections provided under the Private Securities Litigation
    Reform Act of 1995.


 


    All statements, other than statements of historical facts,
    included in this report that address activities, events or
    developments that we expect, believe or anticipate will exist or
    may occur in the future, are forward-looking statements.
    Forward-looking statements can be identified by various forms of
    words such as “anticipates,” “believes,”
    “seeks,” “could,” “may,”
    “should,” “continues,”
    “estimates,” “expects,”
    “forecasts,” “intends,” “might,”





    
    22



Table of Contents





    “goals,” “objectives,” “targets,”
    “planned,” “potential,”
    “projects,” “scheduled,” “will” or
    other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are
    based on management’s beliefs and assumptions and on
    information currently available to management and include, among
    others, statements regarding:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Amounts and nature of future capital expenditures;




 



     
        • 

    
    Expansion and growth of our business and operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Financial condition and liquidity;




 



     
        • 

    
    Business strategy;




 



     
        • 

    
    Estimates of proved gas and oil reserves;




 



     
        • 

    
    Reserve potential;




 



     
        • 

    
    Development drilling potential;




 



     
        • 

    
    Cash flow from operations or results of operations;




 



     
        • 

    
    Seasonality of certain business segments;




 



     
        • 

    
    Natural gas and natural gas liquids prices and demand.





 


    Forward-looking statements are based on numerous assumptions,
    uncertainties and risks that could cause future events or
    results to be materially different from those stated or implied
    in this report. Many of the factors that will determine these
    results are beyond our ability to control or predict. Specific
    factors that could cause actual results to differ from results
    contemplated by the forward-looking statements include, among
    others, the following:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Availability of supplies (including the uncertainties inherent
    in assessing, estimating, acquiring and developing future
    natural gas reserves), market demand, volatility of prices, and
    the availability and cost of capital;




 



     
        • 

    
    Inflation, interest rates, fluctuation in foreign exchange, and
    general economic conditions (including future disruptions and
    volatility in the global credit markets and the impact of these
    events on our customers and suppliers);




 



     
        • 

    
    The strength and financial resources of our competitors;




 



     
        • 

    
    Development of alternative energy sources;




 



     
        • 

    
    The impact of operational and development hazards;




 



     
        • 

    
    Costs of, changes in, or the results of laws, government
    regulations (including proposed climate change legislation),
    environmental liabilities, litigation, and rate proceedings;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our costs and funding obligations for defined benefit pension
    plans and other postretirement benefit plans;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in maintenance and construction costs;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes in the current geopolitical situation;




 



     
        • 

    
    Our exposure to the credit risk of our customers;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks related to strategy and financing, including restrictions
    stemming from our debt agreements, future changes in our credit
    ratings and the availability and cost of credit;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks associated with future weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Acts of terrorism;




 



     
        • 

    
    Additional risks described in our filings with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission.





 


    Given the uncertainties and risk factors that could cause our
    actual results to differ materially from those contained in any
    forward-looking statement, we caution investors not to unduly
    rely on our forward-looking





    
    23



Table of Contents





    statements. We disclaim any obligations to and do not intend to
    update the above list or to announce publicly the result of any
    revisions to any of the forward-looking statements to reflect
    future events or developments.


 


    In addition to causing our actual results to differ, the factors
    listed above and referred to below may cause our intentions to
    change from those statements of intention set forth in this
    report. Such changes in our intentions may also cause our
    results to differ. We may change our intentions, at any time and
    without notice, based upon changes in such factors, our
    assumptions, or otherwise.


 


    Because forward-looking statements involve risks and
    uncertainties, we caution that there are important factors, in
    addition to those listed above, that may cause actual results to
    differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking
    statements. These factors are described in the following section.



 



    RISK
    FACTORS


 


    You should carefully consider the following risk factors in
    addition to the other information in this report. Each of these
    factors could adversely affect our business, operating results,
    and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value
    of an investment in our securities.


 



    Risks
    Related to the Restructuring


 



    We did
    not seek a vote of our shareholders in connection with the
    restructuring. If there is a determination that such a vote was
    required, the resulting consequences could impact
    us.


 


    Section 271 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the
    “DGCL”) generally requires a corporation to obtain
    authorization from the holders of a majority of its outstanding
    shares if the corporation intends to sell all or substantially
    all of its assets. We do not believe the restructuring
    constituted a sale of “all or substantially all” of
    our assets because of, among other things, the portion of our
    assets involved, the significance of our assets and businesses
    that were not transferred and the facts that we retain control
    of all of the assets involved and over an 80% interest in the
    cash flows therefrom. As such, we did not seek a vote of our
    shareholders in connection with the restructuring. There is a
    limited body of Delaware case law interpreting the phrase
    “all or substantially all,” and there is no precise
    established definition. We cannot assure you that the
    restructuring did not constitute a sale of “all or
    substantially all” of our assets and, therefore, that a
    shareholder vote was not required. If such a shareholder vote
    were determined to be required, the resulting consequences could
    impact us and could include (among other consequences) our
    shareholders asserting claims against us, some or all of which
    could ultimately be successful.


 



    We may
    not realize the anticipated benefits from the
    restructuring.


 


    We may not realize the benefits that we anticipate from the
    Dropdown for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to,
    if any of the matters identified as risks in this Risk Factors
    section were to occur. If we do not realize the anticipated
    benefits from the restructuring for any reason, our business may
    be materially adversely affected.


 



    Risks
    Inherent to our Industry and Business


 



    The
    long-term financial condition of our Gas Pipeline and Midstream
    businesses is dependent on the continued availability of natural
    gas supplies in the supply basins that we access, demand for
    those supplies in our traditional markets, and the prices of and
    market demand for natural gas.


 


    The development of the additional natural gas reserves that are
    essential for our Gas Pipeline and Midstream businesses to
    thrive requires significant capital expenditures by others for
    exploration and development drilling and the installation of
    production, gathering, storage, transportation and other
    facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered
    to our pipeline systems. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory
    limitations, including environmental regulations, or the lack of
    available capital for these projects could adversely affect the
    development and production of additional reserves, as well as
    gathering, storage, pipeline transportation and import and
    export of natural gas supplies, adversely impacting our ability
    to fill the capacities of our gathering, transportation and
    processing facilities.




    
    24



Table of Contents





    Production from existing wells and natural gas supply basins
    with access to our pipeline and gathering systems will also
    naturally decline over time. The amount of natural gas reserves
    underlying these wells may also be less than anticipated, and
    the rate at which production from these reserves declines may be
    greater than anticipated. Additionally, the competition for
    natural gas supplies to serve other markets could reduce the
    amount of natural gas supply for our customers. Accordingly, to
    maintain or increase the contracted capacity or the volume of
    natural gas transported on or gathered through our pipelines and
    cash flows associated with the gathering and transportation of
    natural gas, our customers must compete with others to obtain
    adequate supplies of natural gas. In addition, if natural gas
    prices in the supply basins connected to our pipeline systems
    are higher than prices in other natural gas producing regions,
    our ability to compete with other transporters may be negatively
    impacted on a short-term basis, as well as with respect to our
    long-term recontracting activities. If new supplies of natural
    gas are not obtained to replace the natural decline in volumes
    from existing supply areas, if natural gas supplies are diverted
    to serve other markets, or if environmental regulators restrict
    new natural gas drilling, the overall volume of natural gas
    transported, gathered, and stored on our system would decline,
    which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition and results of operations. In addition, new
    LNG import facilities built near our markets could result in
    less demand for our gathering and transportation facilities.


 



    Significant
    prolonged changes in natural gas prices could affect supply and
    demand and cause a termination of our transportation and storage
    contracts or a reduction in throughput on our
    system.


 


    Higher natural gas prices over the long term could result in a
    decline in the demand for natural gas and, therefore, in our
    long-term transportation and storage contracts or throughput on
    our Gas Pipelines’ systems. Also, lower natural gas prices
    over the long term could result in a decline in the production
    of natural gas resulting in reduced contracts or throughput on
    our Gas Pipelines’ systems. As a result, significant
    prolonged changes in natural gas prices could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    Prices
    for NGLs, natural gas and other commodities are volatile and
    this volatility could adversely affect our financial results,
    cash flows, access to capital and ability to maintain existing
    businesses.


 


    Our revenues, operating results, future rate of growth and the
    value of certain segments of our businesses depend primarily
    upon the prices of NGLs, natural gas, or other commodities, and
    the differences between prices of these commodities. Price
    volatility and relative price levels may impact both the amount
    we receive for our products and services and the volume of
    products and services we sell. Prices affect the amount of cash
    flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to
    borrow money or raise additional capital.


 


    The markets for NGLs, natural gas and other commodities are
    likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in prices
    might result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and
    demand for these commodities, market uncertainty and other
    factors that are beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for natural gas,
    NGLs, petroleum, and related commodities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Turmoil in the Middle East and other producing regions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The activities of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
    Countries;




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorist attacks on production or transportation assets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Weather conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of consumer demand;




 



     
        • 

    
    The price and availability of other types of fuels;




 



     
        • 

    
    The availability of pipeline capacity;




 



     
        • 

    
    Supply disruptions, including plant outages and transportation
    disruptions;




 



     
        • 

    
    The price and level of foreign imports;







    
    25



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes;




 



     
        • 

    
    Volatility in the natural gas markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    The overall economic environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    The credit of participants in the markets where products are
    bought and sold;




 



     
        • 

    
    The adoption of regulations or legislation relating to climate
    change.





 



    We
    might not be able to successfully manage the risks associated
    with selling and marketing products in the wholesale energy
    markets.


 


    Our portfolio of derivative and other energy contracts may
    consist of wholesale contracts to buy and sell commodities,
    including contracts for natural gas, NGLs and other commodities
    that are settled by the delivery of the commodity or cash
    throughout the United States. If the values of these contracts
    change in a direction or manner that we do not anticipate or
    cannot manage, it could negatively affect our results of
    operations. In the past, certain marketing and trading companies
    have experienced severe financial problems due to price
    volatility in the energy commodity markets. In certain instances
    this volatility has caused companies to be unable to deliver
    energy commodities that they had guaranteed under contract. If
    such a delivery failure were to occur in one of our contracts,
    we might incur additional losses to the extent of amounts, if
    any, already paid to, or received from, counterparties. In
    addition, in our businesses, we often extend credit to our
    counterparties. Despite performing credit analysis prior to
    extending credit, we are exposed to the risk that we might not
    be able to collect amounts owed to us. If the counterparty to
    such a transaction fails to perform and any collateral that
    secures our counterparty’s obligation is inadequate, we
    will suffer a loss. A general downturn in the economy and
    tightening of global credit markets could cause more of our
    counterparties to fail to perform than we have expected.


 



    Significant
    capital expenditures are required to replace our
    reserves.


 


    Our exploration, development and acquisition activities require
    substantial capital expenditures. Historically, we have funded
    our capital expenditures through a combination of cash flows
    from operations and debt and equity issuances. Future cash flows
    are subject to a number of variables, including the level of
    production from existing wells, prices of natural gas, and our
    success in developing and producing new reserves. If our cash
    flow from operations is not sufficient to fund our capital
    expenditure budget, we may not be able to access additional bank
    debt, issue debt or equity securities or access other methods of
    financing on an economic basis to meet our capital expenditure
    budget. As a result, our capital expenditure plans may have to
    be adjusted.


 



    Failure
    to replace reserves may negatively affect our
    business.


 


    The growth of our Exploration & Production business
    depends upon our ability to find, develop or acquire additional
    natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our
    proved reserves generally decline when reserves are produced,
    unless we conduct successful exploration or development
    activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or
    both. We may not be able to find, develop or acquire additional
    reserves on an economic basis. If natural gas prices increase,
    our costs for additional reserves would also increase;
    conversely if natural gas prices decrease, it could make it more
    difficult to fund the replacement of our reserves.


 



    Exploration
    and development drilling may not result in commercially
    productive reserves.


 


    Our past success rate for drilling projects should not be
    considered a predictor of future commercial success. We do not
    always encounter commercially productive reservoirs through our
    drilling operations. The new wells we drill or participate in
    may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion
    of our investment in wells we drill or participate in. The cost
    of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain,
    and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a
    project. Our efforts will be unprofitable if we drill dry wells
    or wells that are





    
    26



Table of Contents





    productive but do not produce enough reserves to return a profit
    after drilling, operating and other costs. Further, our drilling
    operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of
    a variety of factors, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Increases in the cost of, or shortages or delays in the
    availability of, drilling rigs and equipment, skilled labor,
    capital or transportation;




 



     
        • 

    
    Unexpected drilling conditions or problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    Regulations and regulatory approvals;




 



     
        • 

    
    Changes or anticipated changes in energy prices;




 



     
        • 

    
    Compliance with environmental and other governmental
    requirements.





 



    Estimating
    reserves and future net revenues involves uncertainties.
    Negative revisions to reserve estimates, oil and gas prices or
    assumptions as to future natural gas prices may lead to
    decreased earnings, losses, or impairment of oil and gas assets,
    including related goodwill.


 


    Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating
    underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured
    in an exact manner. Reserves that are “proved
    reserves” are those estimated quantities of crude oil,
    natural gas, and natural gas liquids that geological and
    engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty are
    recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing
    economic and operating conditions, but should not be considered
    as a guarantee of results for future drilling projects.


 


    The process relies on interpretations of available geological,
    geophysical, engineering and production data. There are numerous
    uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved
    reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing
    of developmental expenditures, including many factors beyond the
    control of the producer. The reserve data included in this
    report represent estimates. In addition, the estimates of future
    net revenues from our proved reserves and the present value of
    such estimates are based upon certain assumptions about future
    production levels, prices and costs that may not prove to be
    correct.


 


    Quantities of proved reserves are estimated based on economic
    conditions in existence during the period of assessment. Changes
    to oil and gas prices in the markets for such commodities may
    have the impact of shortening the economic lives of certain
    fields because it becomes uneconomic to produce all recoverable
    reserves on such fields, which reduces proved property reserve
    estimates.


 


    If negative revisions in the estimated quantities of proved
    reserves were to occur, it would have the effect of increasing
    the rates of depreciation, depletion and amortization on the
    affected properties, which would decrease earnings or result in
    losses through higher depreciation, depletion and amortization
    expense. These revisions, as well as revisions in the
    assumptions of future cash flows of these reserves, may also be
    sufficient to trigger impairment losses on certain properties
    which would result in a noncash charge to earnings. The
    revisions could also possibly affect the evaluation of
    Exploration & Production’s goodwill for
    impairment purposes. At December 31, 2009, we had
    approximately $1 billion of goodwill on our balance sheet.


 



    Certain
    of our services are subject to long-term, fixed-price contracts
    that are not subject to adjustment, even if our cost to perform
    such services exceeds the revenues received from such
    contracts.


 


    Our Gas Pipeline and Midstream businesses provide some services
    pursuant to long-term, fixed price contracts. It is possible
    that costs to perform services under such contracts will exceed
    the revenues we collect for our services. Although most of the
    services provided by our interstate gas pipelines are priced at
    cost-based rates that are subject to adjustment in rate cases,
    under FERC policy, a regulated service provider and a customer
    may mutually agree to sign a contract for service at a
    “negotiated rate” that may be above or below the FERC
    regulated cost-based rate for that service. These
    “negotiated rate” contracts are not generally subject
    to adjustment for increased costs that could be produced by
    inflation or other factors relating to the specific facilities
    being used to perform the services.




    
    27



Table of Contents






    We may
    not be able to maintain or replace expiring natural gas
    transportation and storage contracts at favorable rates or on a
    long-term basis.


 


    Our primary exposure to market risk for our Gas Pipelines occurs
    at the time the terms of their existing transportation and
    storage contracts expire and are subject to termination.
    Although none of our Gas Pipelines’ material contracts are
    terminable in 2010, upon expiration of the terms we may not be
    able to extend contracts with existing customers to obtain
    replacement contracts at favorable rates or on a long-term
    basis. The extension or replacement of existing contracts
    depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The level of existing and new competition to deliver natural gas
    to our markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    The growth in demand for natural gas in our markets;




 



     
        • 

    
    Whether the market will continue to support long-term firm
    contracts;




 



     
        • 

    
    Whether our business strategy continues to be successful;




 



     
        • 

    
    The level of competition for natural gas supplies in the
    production basins serving us;




 



     
        • 

    
    The effects of state regulation on customer contracting
    practices.





 


    Any failure to extend or replace a significant portion of our
    existing contracts may have a material adverse effect on our
    business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 



    Our
    risk measurement and hedging activities might not be effective
    and could increase the volatility of our results.


 


    Although we have systems in place that use various methodologies
    to quantify commodity price risk associated with our businesses,
    these systems might not always be followed or might not always
    be effective. Further, such systems do not in themselves manage
    risk, particularly risks outside of our control, and adverse
    changes in energy commodity market prices, volatility, adverse
    correlation of commodity prices, the liquidity of markets,
    changes in interest rates and other risks discussed in this
    report might still adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and
    balance sheet under applicable accounting rules, even if risks
    have been identified.


 


    In an effort to manage our financial exposure related to
    commodity price and market fluctuations, we have entered into
    contracts to hedge certain risks associated with our assets and
    operations. In these hedging activities, we have used
    fixed-price, forward, physical purchase and sales contracts,
    futures, financial swaps and option contracts traded in the
    over-the-counter
    markets or on exchanges. Nevertheless, no single hedging
    arrangement can adequately address all risks present in a given
    contract. For example, a forward contract that would be
    effective in hedging commodity price volatility risks would not
    hedge the contract’s counterparty credit or performance
    risk. Therefore, unhedged risks will always continue to exist.
    While we attempt to manage counterparty credit risk within
    guidelines established by our credit policy, we may not be able
    to successfully manage all credit risk and as such, future cash
    flows and results of operations could be impacted by
    counterparty default.


 


    Our use of hedging arrangements through which we attempt to
    reduce the economic risk of our participation in commodity
    markets could result in increased volatility of our reported
    results. Changes in the fair values (gains and losses) of
    derivatives that qualify as hedges under GAAP to the extent that
    such hedges are not fully effective in offsetting changes to the
    value of the hedged commodity, as well as changes in the fair
    value of derivatives that do not qualify or have not been
    designated as hedges under GAAP, must be recorded in our income.
    This creates the risk of volatility in earnings even if no
    economic impact to us has occurred during the applicable period.


 


    The impact of changes in market prices for NGLs and natural gas
    on the average prices paid or received by us may be reduced
    based on the level of our hedging activities. These hedging
    arrangements may limit or enhance our margins if the market
    prices for NGLs or natural gas were to change substantially from
    the price established by the hedges. In addition, our hedging
    arrangements expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain
    circumstances, including instances in which:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Volumes are less than expected;




 



     
        • 

    
    The hedging instrument is not perfectly effective in mitigating
    the risk being hedged;




 



     
        • 

    
    The counterparties to our hedging arrangements fail to honor
    their financial commitments.







    
    28



Table of Contents




 



    We
    depend on certain key customers for a significant portion of our
    revenues. The loss of any of these key customers or the loss of
    any contracted volumes could result in a decline in our
    business.


 


    Our Gas Pipeline and Midstream businesses rely on a limited
    number of customers for a significant portion of their revenues.
    Although some of these customers are subject to long-term
    contracts, extensions or replacements of these contracts may not
    be renegotiated favorable terms, if at all. The loss of even a
    portion of the revenues from natural gas, NGLs or contracted
    volumes, as applicable, supplied by these customers, as a result
    of competition, creditworthiness, inability to negotiate
    extensions or replacements of contracts or otherwise, could have
    a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition,
    results of operations and cash flows, unless we are able to
    generate comparable revenues from other sources.


 



    We are
    exposed to the credit risk of our customers, and our credit risk
    management may not be adequate to protect against such
    risk.


 


    We are exposed to risk of loss resulting from nonpayment
    and/or
    nonperformance by our customers in the ordinary course of our
    business. Generally our customers are either rated investment
    grade or otherwise considered credit worthy, or they are
    required to make pre-payments or otherwise provide security to
    satisfy credit concerns. However, our credit procedures and
    policies may not be adequate to fully eliminate customer credit
    risk. We cannot predict to what extent our business would be
    impacted by deteriorating conditions in the economy, including
    declines in our customers’ creditworthiness. If we fail to
    adequately assess the creditworthiness of existing or future
    customers, unanticipated deterioration in their creditworthiness
    and any resulting increase in nonpayment
    and/or
    nonperformance by them could cause us to write-down or write-off
    doubtful accounts. Such write-downs or write-offs could
    negatively affect our operating results for the period in which
    they occur, and, if significant, could have a material adverse
    effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and
    financial condition.


 



    Competition
    in the markets in which we operate may adversely affect our
    results of operations.


 


    We have numerous competitors in all aspects of our businesses,
    and additional competitors may enter our markets. Other
    companies with which we compete may be able to respond more
    quickly to new laws or regulations or emerging technologies, or
    to devote greater resources to the construction, expansion or
    refurbishment of their facilities than we can. In addition,
    current or potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions
    or have greater financial resources than we do, which could
    affect our ability to make investments or acquisitions. There
    can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully
    against current and future competitors and any failure to do so
    could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and
    results of operations.


 



    The
    failure of new sources of natural gas production or LNG import
    terminals to be successfully developed in North America could
    increase natural gas prices and reduce the demand for our
    services.


 


    New sources of natural gas production in the United States and
    Canada, particularly in areas of shale development are expected
    to become an increasingly significant component of future U.S.
    natural gas supplies in North America. Additionally, increases
    in LNG supplies are expected to be imported through new LNG
    import terminals, particularly in the Gulf Coast region. If
    these additional sources of supply are not developed, natural
    gas prices could increase and cause consumers of natural gas to
    turn to alternative energy sources, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    Our
    drilling, production, gathering, processing, storage and
    transporting activities involve numerous risks that might result
    in accidents, and other operating risks and
    hazards.


 


    Our operations are subject to all the risks and hazards
    typically associated with the development and exploration for,
    and the production and transportation of oil and gas. These
    operating risks include, but are not limited to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Fires, blowouts, cratering and explosions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Uncontrolled releases of oil, natural gas, NGLs or well fluids;




 



     
        • 

    
    Collapse of NGL storage caverns;







    
    29



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Operator error;




 



     
        • 

    
    Pollution and other environmental risks;




 



     
        • 

    
    Hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions
    and other natural disasters;




 



     
        • 

    
    Aging infrastructure and mechanical problems;




 



     
        • 

    
    Damages to pipelines and pipeline blockages;




 



     
        • 

    
    Damage inadvertently caused by third party activity, such as
    operation of construction equipment;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks related to truck and rail loading and unloading;




 



     
        • 

    
    Risks related to operating in a marine environment;




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or
    those of other energy companies.





 


    Any of these risks could result in loss of human life, personal
    injuries, significant damage to property, environmental
    pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses
    to us. In accordance with customary industry practice, we
    maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and
    losses, and only at levels we believe to be appropriate. The
    location of certain segments of our pipelines in or near
    populated areas, including residential areas, commercial
    business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level
    of damages resulting from these risks. In spite of our
    precautions, an event such as those described above could cause
    considerable harm to people or property, and could have a
    material adverse effect on our financial condition and results
    of operations, particularly if the event is not fully covered by
    insurance. Accidents or other operating risks could further
    result in loss of service available to our customers. Such
    circumstances, including those arising from maintenance and
    repair activities, could result in service interruptions on
    segments of our pipeline infrastructure. Potential customer
    impacts arising from service interruptions on segments of our
    pipeline infrastructure could include limitations on the
    pipeline’s ability to satisfy customer requirements,
    obligations to provide reservations charge credits to customers
    in times of constrained capacity, and solicitation of existing
    customers by others for potential new pipeline projects that
    would compete directly with existing services. Such
    circumstances could materially impact our ability to meet
    contractual obligations and retain customers, with a resulting
    negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of
    operations and cash flows.


 



    We do
    not insure against all potential losses and could be seriously
    harmed by unexpected liabilities or by the ability of the
    insurers we do use to satisfy our claims.


 


    We are not fully insured against all risks inherent to our
    business, including environmental accidents that might occur. In
    addition, we do not maintain business interruption insurance in
    the type and amount to cover all possible risks of loss. We
    currently maintain excess liability insurance with limits of
    $610 million per occurrence and in the aggregate annually
    and a deductible of $2 million per occurrence. This
    insurance covers us, our subsidiaries and certain of our
    affiliates for legal and contractual liabilities arising out of
    bodily injury, personal injury or property damage, including
    resulting loss of use to third parties. This excess liability
    insurance includes coverage for sudden and accidental pollution
    liability for full limits, with the first $135 million of
    insurance also providing gradual pollution liability coverage
    for natural gas and NGL operations. Pollution liability coverage
    excludes: release of pollutants subsequent to their disposal;
    release of substances arising from the combustion of fuels that
    result in acidic deposition, and testing, monitoring,
    clean-up,
    containment, treatment or removal of pollutants from property
    owned, occupied by, rented to, used by or in the care, custody
    or control of us, our subsidiaries and certain of our affiliates.


 


    We do not insure onshore underground pipelines for physical
    damage, except at river crossings and at certain locations such
    as compressor stations. We maintain coverage of
    $300 million per occurrence for physical damage to onshore
    assets and resulting business interruption caused by terrorist
    acts. We also maintain coverage of $100 million per
    occurrence for physical damage to offshore assets caused by
    terrorist acts, except for our Devils Tower spar where we
    maintain limits of $300 million per occurrence for property
    damage caused by terrorist acts and $105 million per
    occurrence for resulting business interruption. Also, all of our
    insurance is subject to deductibles. If a significant accident
    or event occurs for which we are not fully insured, it could
    adversely affect our





    
    30



Table of Contents





    operations and financial condition. We may not be able to
    maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at
    reasonable rates. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to
    hurricane losses in recent years have impacted named windstorm
    insurance coverage, rates and availability for Gulf of Mexico
    area exposures, and we may elect to self insure a portion of our
    asset portfolio. We cannot assure you that we will in the future
    be able to obtain the levels or types of insurance we would
    otherwise have obtained prior to these market changes or that
    the insurance coverage we do obtain will not contain large
    deductibles or fail to cover certain hazards or cover all
    potential losses. The occurrence of any operating risks not
    fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition, results of operations and
    cash flows.


 


    In addition, certain insurance companies that provide coverage
    to us, including American International Group, Inc., have
    experienced negative developments that could impair their
    ability to pay any of our potential claims. As a result, we
    could be exposed to greater losses than anticipated and may have
    to obtain replacement insurance, if available, at a greater cost.


 



    Execution
    of our capital projects subjects us to construction risks,
    increases in labor and materials costs and other risks that may
    adversely affect financial results.


 


    A significant portion of any growth in our Gas Pipeline and
    Midstream businesses is accomplished through the construction of
    new pipelines, processing and storage facilities, as well as the
    expansion of existing facilities. Construction of these
    facilities is subject to various regulatory, development and
    operational risks, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    The ability to obtain necessary approvals and permits by
    regulatory agencies on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    The availability of skilled labor, equipment, and materials to
    complete expansion projects;




 



     
        • 

    
    Potential changes in federal, state and local statutes and
    regulations, including environmental requirements, that prevent
    a project from proceeding or increase the anticipated cost of
    the project;




 



     
        • 

    
    Impediments on our ability to acquire
    rights-of-way
    or land rights on a timely basis and on acceptable terms;




 



     
        • 

    
    The ability to construct projects within estimated costs,
    including the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or
    increased costs of equipment, materials, labor, or other factors
    beyond our control, that may be material;




 



     
        • 

    
    The ability to access capital markets to fund construction
    projects.





 


    Any of these risks could prevent a project from proceeding,
    delay its completion or increase its anticipated costs. As a
    result, new facilities may not achieve expected investment
    return, which could adversely affect results of operations,
    financial position or cash flows.


 



    Our
    costs and funding obligations for our defined benefit pension
    plans and costs for our other post-retirement benefit plans are
    affected by factors beyond our control.


 


    We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all
    of our U.S. employees and other post-retirement benefit
    plans covering certain eligible participants. The timing and
    amount of our funding requirements under the defined benefit
    pension plans depend upon a number of factors we control,
    including changes to pension plan benefits, as well as factors
    outside of our control, such as asset returns, interest rates
    and changes in pension laws. Changes to these and other factors
    that can significantly increase our funding requirements could
    have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and
    results of operations.


 



    Two of
    our subsidiaries act as the respective general partners of two
    different publicly-traded limited partnerships, Williams
    Partners L.P. and Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. As such, those
    subsidiaries’ operations may involve a greater risk of
    liability than ordinary business operations.


 


    One of our subsidiaries acts as the general partner of WPZ and
    another subsidiary of ours acts as the general partner of WMZ.
    Each of these subsidiaries that act as the general partner of a
    publicly-traded limited partnership





    
    31



Table of Contents





    may be deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations with
    respect to the limited partnership of which it serves as the
    general partner and to the limited partners of such limited
    partnership. Activities determined to involve fiduciary
    obligations to other persons or entities typically involve a
    higher standard of conduct than ordinary business operations and
    therefore may involve a greater risk of liability, particularly
    when a conflict of interests is found to exist. Our control of
    the general partners of two different publicly traded
    partnerships may increase the possibility of claims of breach of
    fiduciary duties, including claims brought due to conflicts of
    interest (including conflicts of interest that may arise
    (i) between the two publicly-traded partnerships as well as
    (ii) between a publicly-traded partnership, on the one
    hand, and its general partner and that general partner’s
    affiliates, including us, on the other hand). Any liability
    resulting from such claims could be material.


 



    Potential
    changes in accounting standards might cause us to revise our
    financial results and disclosures in the future, which might
    change the way analysts measure our business or financial
    performance.


 


    Regulators and legislators continue to take a renewed look at
    accounting practices, financial disclosures, companies’
    relationships with their independent registered public
    accounting firms, and retirement plan practices. We cannot
    predict the ultimate impact of any future changes in accounting
    regulations or practices in general with respect to public
    companies or the energy industry or in our operations
    specifically. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (FASB) or the SEC could enact new accounting standards
    that might impact how we are required to record revenues,
    expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Any significant change
    in accounting standards or disclosure requirements could have a
    material adverse effect on our business, results of operations,
    and financial condition.


 



    Our
    investments and projects located outside of the United States
    expose us to risks related to the laws of other countries, and
    the taxes, economic conditions, fluctuations in currency rates,
    political conditions and policies of foreign governments. These
    risks might delay or reduce our realization of value from our
    international projects.


 


    We currently own and might acquire
    and/or
    dispose of material energy-related investments and projects
    outside the United States. The economic and political conditions
    in certain countries where we have interests or in which we
    might explore development, acquisition or investment
    opportunities present risks of delays in construction and
    interruption of business, as well as risks of war,
    expropriation, nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions
    or nullification of existing contracts and changes in law or tax
    policy, that are greater than in the United States. The
    uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign
    countries in which we develop or acquire projects or make
    investments could make it more difficult to obtain nonrecourse
    project financing or other financing on suitable terms, could
    adversely affect the ability of certain customers to honor their
    obligations with respect to such projects or investments and
    could impair our ability to enforce our rights under agreements
    relating to such projects or investments.


 


    Operations and investments in foreign countries also can present
    currency exchange rate and convertibility, inflation and
    repatriation risk. In certain situations under which we develop
    or acquire projects or make investments, economic and monetary
    conditions and other factors could affect our ability to convert
    to U.S. dollars our earnings denominated in foreign
    currencies. In addition, risk from fluctuations in currency
    exchange rates can arise when our foreign subsidiaries expend or
    borrow funds in one type of currency, but receive revenue in
    another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can
    reduce our ability to meet expenses, including debt service
    obligations. We may or may not put contracts in place designed
    to mitigate our foreign currency exchange risks. We have some
    exposures that are not hedged and which could result in losses
    or volatility in our results of operations.


 



    Our
    operating results for certain segments of our business might
    fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis.


 


    Revenues from certain segments of our business can have seasonal
    characteristics. In many parts of the country, demand for
    natural gas and other fuels peaks during the winter. As a
    result, our overall operating results in the future might
    fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. Demand for natural
    gas and other fuels could vary significantly from our
    expectations depending on the nature and location of our
    facilities and pipeline systems and the terms of our natural gas
    transportation arrangements relative to demand created by
    unusual weather patterns.





    
    32



Table of Contents





    Additionally, changes in the price of natural gas could benefit
    one of our business units, but disadvantage another. For
    example, our Exploration & Production business may
    benefit from higher natural gas prices, and Midstream, which
    uses gas as a feedstock, may not.


 



    Risks
    Related to Strategy and Financing


 



    Our
    debt agreements impose restrictions on us that may adversely
    affect our ability to operate our business.


 


    Certain of our debt agreements contain covenants that restrict
    or limit, among other things, our ability to create liens
    supporting indebtedness, merge, sell substantially all of our
    assets, make certain distributions, and incur additional debt.
    In addition, our debt agreements contain, and those we enter
    into in the future may contain, financial covenants and other
    limitations with which we will need to comply. These covenants
    could adversely affect our ability to finance our future
    operations or capital needs or engage in, expand or pursue our
    business activities and prevent us from engaging in certain
    transactions that might otherwise be considered beneficial to
    us. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected
    by many events beyond our control, including prevailing
    economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other
    economic conditions deteriorate, our current assumptions about
    future economic conditions turn out to be incorrect or
    unexpected events occur, our ability to comply with these
    covenants may be significantly impaired. We cannot assure you
    that our future operating results will be sufficient to comply
    with the covenants or, in the event of a default under any of
    our debt agreements, to remedy that default.


 


    Our failure to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements
    could result in events of default. Upon the occurrence of such
    an event of default, the lenders could elect to declare all
    amounts outstanding under a particular facility to be
    immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments, if
    any, to extend further credit. Certain payment defaults or an
    acceleration under one debt agreement could cause a
    cross-default or cross-acceleration of another debt agreement.
    Such a cross-default or cross-acceleration could have a wider
    impact on our liquidity than might otherwise arise from a
    default or acceleration of a single debt instrument. If an event
    of default occurs, or if other debt agreements cross-default,
    and the lenders under the affected debt agreements accelerate
    the maturity of any loans or other debt outstanding to us, we
    may not have sufficient liquidity to repay amounts outstanding
    under such debt agreements.


 


    Our ability to repay, extend or refinance our existing debt
    obligations and to obtain future credit will depend primarily on
    our operating performance, which will be affected by general
    economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory,
    business and other factors, many of which are beyond our
    control. Our ability to refinance existing debt obligations or
    obtain future credit will also depend upon the current
    conditions in the credit markets and the availability of credit
    generally. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations
    or obtain future credit on favorable terms, if at all, we could
    be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek
    additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to
    obtain financing or sell assets on satisfactory terms, or at all.


 



    Future
    disruptions in the global credit markets may make equity and
    debt markets less accessible, create a shortage in the
    availability of credit and lead to credit market
    volatility.


 


    In 2008, public equity markets experienced significant declines
    and global credit markets experienced a shortage in overall
    liquidity and a resulting disruption in the availability of
    credit. Future disruptions in the global financial marketplace,
    including the bankruptcy or restructuring of financial
    institutions, may make equity and debt markets inaccessible and
    adversely affect the availability of credit already arranged and
    the availability and cost of credit in the future. We have
    availability under our existing bank credit facilities, but our
    ability to borrow under those facilities could be impaired if
    one or more of our lenders fail to honor its contractual
    obligation to lend to us.


 



    Adverse
    economic conditions could adversely affect our results of
    operations.


 


    A slowdown in the economy has the potential to negatively impact
    our businesses in many ways. Included among these potential
    negative impacts are reduced demand and lower prices for our
    products and services, increased difficulty in collecting
    amounts owed to us by our customers and a reduction in our
    credit ratings (either due to tighter rating standards or the
    negative impacts described above), which could result in
    reducing our access to credit markets, raising the cost of such
    access or requiring us to provide additional collateral to our
    counterparties.




    
    33



Table of Contents






    A
    downgrade of our credit ratings could impact our liquidity,
    access to capital and our costs of doing business, and
    maintaining current credit ratings is under the control of
    independent third parties.


 


    A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our cost of
    borrowing and would require us to post additional collateral
    with third parties, negatively impacting our available
    liquidity. Our ability to access capital markets would also be
    limited by a downgrade of our credit rating and other
    disruptions. Such disruptions could include:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Economic downturns;




 



     
        • 

    
    Deteriorating capital market conditions;




 



     
        • 

    
    Declining market prices for natural gas, natural gas liquids and
    other commodities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on our facilities or
    those of other energy companies;




 



     
        • 

    
    The overall health of the energy industry, including the
    bankruptcy or insolvency of other companies.





 


    Credit rating agencies perform independent analysis when
    assigning credit ratings. The analysis includes a number of
    criteria including, but not limited to, business composition,
    market and operational risks, as well as various financial
    tests. Credit rating agencies continue to review the criteria
    for industry sectors and various debt ratings and may make
    changes to those criteria from time to time. Our corporate
    family credit rating and the credit ratings of Transco and
    Northwest Pipeline are rated investment grade by
    Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Corporation, and
    Fitch Ratings, Ltd., and our senior unsecured debt ratings are
    rated investment grade by Moody’s and Fitch. Credit ratings
    are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold investments in the
    rated entity. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at
    any time by the ratings agencies, and no assurance can be given
    that the credit rating agencies will continue to assign us
    investment grade ratings even if we meet or exceed their
    criteria for investment grade ratios or that our senior
    unsecured debt rating will be raised to investment grade by all
    of the credit rating agencies.


 



    Risks
    Related to Regulations that Affect our Industry


 



    Our
    natural gas sales, transmission, and storage operations are
    subject to government regulations and rate proceedings that
    could have an adverse impact on our results of
    operations.


 


    Our interstate natural gas sales, transportation, and storage
    operations conducted through our Gas Pipelines business are
    subject to the FERC’s rules and regulations in accordance
    with the NGA and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. The
    FERC’s regulatory authority extends to:


 




    
    
    



     
        • 

    
    Transportation and sale for resale of natural gas in interstate
    commerce;




 



     
        • 

    
    Rates, operating terms and conditions of service, including
    initiation and discontinuation of services;




 



     
        • 

    
    Certification and construction of new facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of facilities;




 



     
        • 

    
    Accounts and records;




 



     
        • 

    
    Depreciation and amortization policies;




 



     
        • 

    
    Relationships with marketing functions within Williams involved
    in certain aspects of the natural gas business;




 



     
        • 

    
    Market manipulation in connection with interstate sales,
    purchases or transportation of natural gas.





 


    Regulatory actions in these areas can affect our business in
    many ways, including decreasing tariff rates and revenues,
    decreasing volumes in our pipelines, increasing our costs and
    otherwise altering the profitability of our business. Regulatory
    decisions could also affect our costs for compression,
    processing and dehydration of natural gas, which could have a
    negative effect on our results of operations.


 


    The FERC has taken certain actions to strengthen market forces
    in the natural gas pipeline industry that have led to increased
    competition throughout the industry. In a number of key markets,
    interstate pipelines are now facing





    
    34



Table of Contents





    competitive pressure from other major pipeline systems, enabling
    local distribution companies and end users to choose a
    transportation provider based on considerations other than
    location.


 



    We are
    subject to risks associated with climate change.


 


    There is a growing belief that emissions of greenhouse gases
    (GHGs) may be linked to climate change. Climate change and the
    costs that may be associated with its impacts and the regulation
    of GHGs have the potential to affect our business in many ways,
    including negatively impacting the costs we incur in providing
    our products and services, the demand for and consumption of our
    products and services (due to change in both costs and weather
    patterns), and the economic health of the regions in which we
    operate, all of which can create financial risks.


 



    Costs
    of environmental liabilities and complying with existing and
    future environmental regulations, including those related to
    climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, could exceed our
    current expectations.


 


    Our operations are subject to extensive environmental regulation
    pursuant to a variety of federal, provincial, state and
    municipal laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations
    impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and
    obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use,
    storage, extraction, transportation, treatment and disposal of
    hazardous substances and wastes, in connection with spills,
    releases and emissions of various substances into the
    environment, and in connection with the operation, maintenance,
    abandonment and reclamation of our facilities. Various
    governmental authorities, including the U.S. Environmental
    Protection Agency (EPA) and analogous state agencies and the
    United States Department of Homeland Security, have the power to
    enforce compliance with these laws and regulations and the
    permits issued under them, oftentimes requiring difficult and
    costly actions. Failure to comply with these laws, regulations,
    and permits may result in the assessment of administrative,
    civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial
    obligations, the imposition of stricter conditions on or
    revocation of permits, and the issuance of injunctions limiting
    or preventing some or all of our operations.


 


    Compliance with environmental laws requires significant
    expenditures, including clean up costs and damages arising out
    of contaminated properties. Joint and several, strict liability
    may be incurred without regard to fault under certain
    environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of
    contaminated areas and in connection with spills or releases of
    natural gas and wastes on, under, or from our properties and
    facilities. Private parties, including the owners of properties
    through which our pipeline and gathering systems pass, may have
    the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well
    as to seek damages for non-compliance with environmental laws
    and regulations or for personal injury or property damage
    arising from our operations.


 


    We are generally responsible for all liabilities associated with
    the environmental condition of our facilities and assets,
    whether acquired or developed, regardless of when the
    liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In
    connection with certain acquisitions and divestitures, we could
    acquire, or be required to provide indemnification against,
    environmental liabilities that could expose us to material
    losses, which may not be covered by insurance. In addition, the
    steps we could be required to take to bring certain facilities
    into compliance could be prohibitively expensive, and we might
    be required to shut down, divest or alter the operation of those
    facilities, which might cause us to incur losses. Although we do
    not expect that the costs of complying with current
    environmental laws will have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition or results of operations, no assurance can
    be given that the costs of complying with environmental laws in
    the future will not have such an effect.


 


    Legislative and regulatory responses related to GHGs and climate
    change creates the potential for financial risk. The United
    States Congress and certain states have for some time been
    considering various forms of legislation related to GHG
    emissions. There have also been international efforts seeking
    legally binding reductions in emissions of GHGs. In addition,
    increased public awareness and concern may result in more state,
    federal, and international proposals to reduce or mitigate GHG
    emissions.


 


    Several bills have been introduced in the United States Congress
    that would compel GHG emission reductions. In June of 2009, the
    U.S. House of Representatives passed the “American
    Clean Energy and Security Act” which is intended to
    decrease annual GHG emissions through a variety of measures,
    including a “cap and trade” system





    
    35



Table of Contents





    which limits the amount of GHGs that may be emitted and
    incentives to reduce the nation’s dependence on traditional
    energy sources. The U.S. Senate is currently considering
    similar legislation, and numerous states have also announced or
    adopted programs to stabilize and reduce GHGs. In addition, on
    December 7, 2009, the EPA issued a final determination that
    six GHGs are a threat to public safety and welfare. This
    determination is the latest in a series of EPA actions in 2009
    which could ultimately lead to the direct regulation of GHG
    emissions in our industry by the EPA under the Clean Air Act.
    While it is not clear whether or when any federal or state
    climate change laws or regulations will be passed, any of these
    actions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and
    maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls
    on our facilities, and (iii) administer and manage any GHG
    emissions program. If we are unable to recover or pass through a
    significant level of our costs related to complying with climate
    change regulatory requirements imposed on us, it could have a
    material adverse effect on our results of operations. To the
    extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of
    GHGs as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost
    of and access to capital.


 


    We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible
    expenditures related to environmental conditions based on
    current laws and regulations and current interpretations of
    those laws and regulations. If the interpretation of laws or
    regulations, or the laws and regulations themselves, change, our
    assumptions may change. Our regulatory rate structure and our
    contracts with customers might not necessarily allow us to
    recover capital costs we incur to comply with the new
    environmental regulations. Also, we might not be able to obtain
    or maintain from time to time all required environmental
    regulatory approvals for certain development projects. If there
    is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory
    approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the
    operation of our facilities could be prevented or become subject
    to additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse
    consequences to our results of operations.


 



    If
    third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our
    pipeline and facilities become unavailable to transport natural
    gas and NGLs or to treat natural gas, our revenues could be
    adversely affected.


 


    We depend upon third-party pipelines and other facilities that
    provide delivery options to and from our pipeline and facilities
    for the benefit of our customers. Because we do not own these
    third-party pipelines or facilities, their continuing operation
    is not within our control. If these pipelines or other
    facilities were to become unavailable for any reason, or if
    throughput were reduced because of testing, line repair, damage
    to the pipelines or facilities, reduced operating pressures,
    lack of capacity, increased credit requirements or rates charged
    by such pipelines or facilities or other causes, we and our
    customers would have reduced capacity to transport, store or
    deliver natural gas or NGL products to end use markets or to
    receive deliveries of mixed NGLs, thereby reducing our revenues.
    Further, although there are laws and regulations designed to
    encourage competition in wholesale market transactions, some
    companies may fail to provide fair and equal access to their
    transportation systems or may not provide sufficient
    transportation capacity for other market participants. Any
    temporary or permanent interruption at any key pipeline
    interconnect or in operations on third-party pipelines or
    facilities that would cause a material reduction in volumes
    transported on our pipelines or our gathering systems or
    processed, fractionated, treated or stored at our facilities
    could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
    condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 



    Our
    businesses are subject to complex government regulations. The
    operation of our businesses might be adversely affected by
    changes in these regulations or in their interpretation or
    implementation, or the introduction of new laws or regulations
    applicable to our businesses or our customers.


 


    Existing regulations might be revised or reinterpreted, new laws
    and regulations might be adopted or become applicable to us, our
    facilities or our customers, and future changes in laws and
    regulations might have a detrimental effect on our business.
    Specifically, the Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation
    Commission has enacted new rules in 2009 which increased our
    costs of permitting and environmental compliance and the time
    required to obtain permits, which may have a material effect on
    our results of operations.




    
    36



Table of Contents






    Legal
    and regulatory proceedings and investigations relating to the
    energy industry and capital markets have adversely affected our
    business and may continue to do so.


 


    Public and regulatory scrutiny of the energy industry and of the
    capital markets has resulted in increased regulation being
    either proposed or implemented. Such scrutiny has also resulted
    in various inquiries, investigations and court proceedings in
    which we are a named defendant. Both the shippers on our
    pipelines and regulators have rights to challenge the rates we
    charge under certain circumstances. Any successful challenge
    could materially affect our results of operations.


 


    Certain inquiries, investigations and court proceedings are
    ongoing and continue to adversely affect our business as a
    whole. We might see these adverse effects continue as a result
    of the uncertainty of these ongoing inquiries and proceedings,
    or additional inquiries and proceedings by federal or state
    regulatory agencies or private plaintiffs. In addition, we
    cannot predict the outcome of any of these inquiries or whether
    these inquiries will lead to additional legal proceedings
    against us, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other
    regulatory action, including legislation, which might be
    materially adverse to the operation of our business and our
    revenues and net income or increase our operating costs in other
    ways. Current legal proceedings or other matters against us
    arising out of our ongoing and discontinued operations including
    environmental matters, suits, regulatory appeals and similar
    matters might result in adverse decisions against us. The result
    of such adverse decisions, either individually or in the
    aggregate, could be material and may not be covered fully or at
    all by insurance.


 



    Risks
    Related to Employees, Outsourcing of Noncore Support Activities,
    and Technology


 



    Institutional
    knowledge residing with current employees nearing retirement
    eligibility might not be adequately preserved.


 


    In certain segments of our business, institutional knowledge
    resides with employees who have many years of service. As these
    employees reach retirement age, we may not be able to replace
    them with employees of comparable knowledge and experience. In
    addition, we may not be able to retain or recruit other
    qualified individuals, and our efforts at knowledge transfer
    could be inadequate. If knowledge transfer, recruiting and
    retention efforts are inadequate, access to significant amounts
    of internal historical knowledge and expertise could become
    unavailable to us.


 



    Failure
    of or disruptions to our outsourcing relationships might
    negatively impact our ability to conduct our
    business.


 


    Some studies indicate a high failure rate of outsourcing
    relationships. Although we have taken steps to build a
    cooperative and mutually beneficial relationship with our
    outsourcing providers and to closely monitor their performance,
    a deterioration in the timeliness or quality of the services
    performed by the outsourcing providers or a failure of all or
    part of these relationships could lead to loss of institutional
    knowledge and interruption of services necessary for us to be
    able to conduct our business. The expiration of such agreements
    or the transition of services between providers could lead to
    similar losses of institutional knowledge or disruptions.


 


    Certain of our accounting, information technology, application
    development, and help desk services are currently provided by an
    outsourcing provider from service centers outside of the United
    States. The economic and political conditions in certain
    countries from which our outsourcing providers may provide
    services to us present similar risks of business operations
    located outside of the United States previously discussed,
    including risks of interruption of business, war, expropriation,
    nationalization, renegotiation, trade sanctions or nullification
    of existing contracts and changes in law or tax policy, that are
    greater than in the United States.


 



    Risks
    Related to Weather, other Natural Phenomena and Business
    Disruption


 



    Our
    assets and operations can be adversely affected by weather and
    other natural phenomena.


 


    Our assets and operations, including those located offshore, can
    be adversely affected by hurricanes, floods, earthquakes,
    tornadoes and other natural phenomena and weather conditions,
    including extreme temperatures, making it more difficult for us
    to realize the historic rates of return associated with these
    assets and operations. Insurance may be inadequate, and in some
    instances, we have been unable to obtain insurance on
    commercially





    
    37



Table of Contents





    reasonable terms, or insurance may not be available. A
    significant disruption in operations or a significant liability
    for which we were not fully insured could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    Our customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions.
    To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change
    or demand is impacted by regulations associated with climate
    change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease
    depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes, leading
    to either increased investment or decreased revenues.


 



    Acts
    of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, results of operations and cash
    flows.


 


    Our assets and the assets of our customers and others may be
    targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our business
    or cause significant harm to our operations, such as full or
    partial disruption to our ability to produce, process, transport
    or distribute natural gas, natural gas liquids or other
    commodities. Acts of terrorism as well as events occurring in
    response to or in connection with acts of terrorism could cause
    environmental repercussions that could result in a significant
    decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or
    remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on
    our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


 





    
    



    
    Item 1B