. RISK FACTORSWe are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more of them occur, could adversely affect our business, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and/or the trading price of our Common Stock. In evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities, you should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this report, as well as the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC. The risks below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could also adversely impact our business in the future.We May Fail to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the CombinationThe success of the Combination will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the RockTenn and MWV businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies, and achieves the identified projected cost savings and revenue growth trends. On a combined basis, we expect to benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities, the elimination of redundancies, as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration. We have set a $1.0 billion annualized run rate synergy and performance improvement target, before inflation, to be realized by September 30, 2018. We also expect to realize revenue synergies, such as expanded and complementary product offerings and increased geographic reach of the combined businesses. However, we must successfully combine the businesses of RockTenn and MWV in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized. In addition, we must achieve the anticipated savings and synergies without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the Combination may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected.The Failure to Successfully Integrate Certain Businesses and Operations of RockTenn and MWV in the Expected Time Frame May Adversely Affect Our Future ResultsHistorically, RockTenn and MWV operated as independent companies. The business currently conducted by WestRock is the combined businesses conducted by RockTenn and MWV prior to the Combination. We may face significant challenges in consolidating certain businesses and functions of RockTenn and MWV, integrating their technologies, organizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in the business cultures of the two companies and retaining key personnel. The integration may also be complex and time consuming, and require substantial resources and effort. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the Combination may also disrupt ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with employees, suppliers, customers and others with whom RockTenn and MWV had business or other dealings or limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Combination. In addition, difficulties in integrating the businesses or regulatory functions of RockTenn and MWV could harm our reputation.15Table of ContentsCombining the Businesses of RockTenn and MWV May Be More Difficult, Costly or Time-Consuming than Expected, Which May Adversely Affect Our Results and Negatively Affect the Value of Our Common StockIf we are not able to successfully combine the businesses of RockTenn and MWV in an efficient, effective and timely manner, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the Combination may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and the value of our Common Stock may be affected adversely. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Combination, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon the revenues, level of expenses and our operating results, which may adversely affect the value of our Common Stock. Also, the integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. Actual synergies, if achieved, may be lower than what we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. In addition, the expected contribution savings from merging the U.S. pension plans of the companies may be higher or lower than anticipated. If we are not able to adequately address integration challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate MWV’s and RockTenn’s operations or to realize the anticipated benefits of the integration of the two companies.RockTenn and MWV Have, and WestRock Expects, to Incur Significant Transaction and Integration Costs in Connection with the CombinationRockTenn and MWV have incurred and we expect to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with the Combination. These costs and expenses include, but are not limited to financial advisory, bank fees, legal, accounting, consulting and other advisory fees and expenses, reorganization and restructuring costs, severance/employee benefit-related expenses, filing fees, printing expenses, and other related charges and integration costs. There are also a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the Combination. While we assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred in connection with the Combination, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration and implementation expenses. There may also be additional unanticipated significant costs in connection with the Combination that we may not recoup. These costs and expenses could reduce the benefits and additional income we expect to achieve from the Combination. Although we expect that these benefits will offset the transaction expenses and implementation costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term or at all.There Can Be No Assurance That the Separation of our Specialty Chemicals Business Will Occur, and Until it Occurs, the Terms of the Separation May Change and We and Our Stockholders May Not Realize the Potential Benefits from the Separation of our Specialty Chemicals BusinessWe expect to complete the separation of our specialty chemicals business, now called Ingevity, through a spin-off or other alternative transaction. We are targeting an approximate March 1, 2016 separation. However, there can be no assurance of the timeframe in which the separation will occur or that the separation will occur at all. Until the separation occurs, we will have the discretion to determine and change the terms of the separation or determine not to proceed with the separation.WestRock and its stockholders may not realize the potential benefits expected from the separation of its specialty chemicals business. In addition, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs and some negative effects from the separation of the specialty chemicals business, including loss of access to some of the financial, managerial and professional resources from which MWV benefited in the past, and diminished diversification of revenue sources, which may increase volatility of results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements. In addition, until the market has fully analyzed our value after the separation of its specialty chemicals business, our Common Stock may experience more market price volatility than usual. It is also possible that the combined market prices of our Common Stock and the common stock of Ingevity immediately after the separation will be more or less than the market prices of our Common Stock immediately before the separation.We are Exposed to the Risks Related to International Sales and OperationsWe predominately operate in domestic U.S. markets, but derive a portion of our total sales from outside the U.S. through international operations or exports to foreign customers. Therefore, we have exposure to risks of operating in many foreign countries, including:• difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;• unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments;• earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;16Table of Contents• restrictions on, or difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the U.S.;• political and economic instability;• import and export restrictions and other trade barriers; • difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries and international operations;• difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions;• government limitations on foreign ownership;• government takeover or nationalization of business;• government mandated price controls; and• fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.Any one or more of the above factors could adversely affect our international operations and could significantly affect its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.The Future Success of our International Operations Could be Adversely Affected by Violations or Alleged Violations of the FCPA and Similar World-Wide Anti-Bribery Laws.The FCPA, and similar world-wide anti-bribery laws, prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the FCPA. Our internal control policies and procedures, or those of our vendors, may not adequately protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed or alleged to be committed by our employees, agents, or vendors. Any such allegations could lead to civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties and/or could damage our reputation. There can be no assurance that violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, would not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial condition.We May Face Increased Costs and Reduced Supply of Raw Materials and EnergyCosts of recovered paper and virgin fiber, our principal externally sourced raw materials for our mills, and items such as crude tall oil, or “CTO”, sawdust, phosphoric acid, ethyleneamines and lignin for our specialty chemicals operations, are subject to pricing variability due to market and industry conditions. Increasing demand for products packaged in 100% recycled paper, greater demand for U.S. sourced recovered paper by Asian based paper manufacturers, and the shift by manufacturers of virgin paperboard, tissue, newsprint and corrugated packaging to the production of products with some recycled paper content have and may continue to increase demand for recovered paper, which may result in cost increases. Certain published indexes contribute to price setting for some of our raw materials. Future changes in how these indexes are established or maintained could impact pricing. At times, the cost of natural gas, which we use in many of our manufacturing operations, including many of our mills and specialty chemicals operations, and other energy costs (including energy generated by burning natural gas, fuel oil, biomass and coal) have fluctuated significantly. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future increases in the cost of raw materials or energy through price increases for our products. The failure to obtain raw materials or energy at reasonable market prices, or the failure to pass on price increases, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, a reduction in availability of raw materials or energy sources due to increased demand or other factors could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We May Experience Pricing VariabilityThe selling prices in the industries we operate have historically experienced significant fluctuations. Certain published indexes contribute to the setting of selling prices for some of our products. Future changes in how these indexes are established or maintained could impact selling prices. If we are unable to maintain selling prices, that inability may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are not able to predict with certainty future market conditions or the selling prices for our products.Our Earnings are Highly Dependent on VolumesOur operations generally have high fixed operating cost components and, therefore, our earnings are highly dependent on volumes, which tend to fluctuate. These fluctuations make it difficult to predict our financial results with any degree of certainty. An inability to maintain volumes may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 17Table of ContentsWe Face Intense CompetitionOur businesses are in industries that are highly competitive, and no single company dominates an industry. Our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. We generally compete with companies operating in North America, although we have operations spanning North America, South America, Europe and Asia. Competition from domestic or foreign lower cost manufacturers in the future could negatively impact our sales volumes and pricing. Because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for sales opportunities to customers for new business or for renewal of existing business. The loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business with less favorable terms, may have a significant impact on our results of operations. Further, competitive conditions may prevent us from fully recovering increased costs and may inhibit our ability to pass on cost increases to our customers. Customer shifts away from paperboard and containerboard packaging to packaging from other materials or from products in our specialty chemicals business such as tall oil rosin-based resins in the adhesives and ink markets to hydrocarbon and gum rosin-based products could adversely affect our results of operations. Our mills’ sales volumes may be directly impacted by changes in demand for our packaging products. We Have Been Dependent on Certain CustomersEach of our segments has certain large customers, the loss of which could have a material adverse effect on the segment’s sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We May Incur Business DisruptionsWe take measures to minimize the risks of disruption at our facilities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, tropical storm, earthquake, tornado, severe weather, flood, fire, or other unanticipated problems such as labor difficulties, inability to obtain freight services, equipment failure or unscheduled maintenance could cause operational disruptions of varied duration. Disruptions at our suppliers could lead to short term or longer rises in raw material or energy costs and/or reduced availability of materials or energy. These types of disruptions could materially adversely affect our earnings to varying degrees dependent upon the facility, the duration of the disruption, our ability to shift business to another facility or find alternative sources of materials or energy. Any losses due to these events may not be covered by our existing insurance policies or may be subject to certain deductibles.We May be Adversely Affected by Current Economic and Financial Market ConditionsOur businesses may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general economic and business conditions, changes in tax laws or tax rates and conditions in the financial services markets including counterparty risk, insurance carrier risk, rising interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar or the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar may negatively impact our ability to compete. Macro-economic challenges, including conditions in financial and capital markets and levels of unemployment, and the ability of the U.S. and other countries to deal with their rising debt levels may continue to put pressure on the economy or lead to changes in tax laws or tax rates. There can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or tax rates will not have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate, or deferred tax assets and liabilities. Adverse developments in the U.S. and global economy, including locations such as Europe, Brazil, India and China, could drive an increase or decrease in the demand for our products that could increase or decrease our revenues, increase or decrease our manufacturing costs and ultimately increase or decrease our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As a result of negative changes in the economy, customers, vendors or counterparties may experience significant cash flow problems or cause consumers of our products to postpone or refrain from spending in response to adverse economic events or conditions. If customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or cash flows or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay or may delay payment of accounts receivable that are owed to us or we may experience lower sales volumes. We are not able to predict with certainty market conditions, and our business could be materially and adversely affected by these market conditions.If Interest Rates Increase, our Net Income Could be Negatively AffectedWe maintain levels of floating rate debt that we consider prudent based on our cash flows and other metrics. Our floating rate debt exposes us to changes in interest rates. We utilize fixed rate debt and from time to time derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate risks. However, there can be no assurance that our financial risk management will be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations. Our interest expense may also be affected by our credit ratings.18Table of ContentsWe May be Unable to Successfully Complete and Finance Mergers and AcquisitionsWe have completed several mergers and acquisitions in recent years and we have and may continue to seek additional such opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will successfully be able to identify suitable targets, complete and finance the transactions, integrate the target operations into our existing operations, realize the anticipated synergies and business opportunities or expand into new markets. There can also be no assurance that future transactions will not have an adverse effect on our operating results, or that the terms of the debt financing and our increased indebtedness following a transaction, as well as any potential underfunded pension and postretirement liabilities of the acquired operations, may have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions. Target operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability or productivity comparable with those our existing operations achieve, or otherwise perform as expected. In addition, it is possible that, in connection with mergers and acquisitions, our capital expenditures could be higher than we anticipated and that we may not realize the expected benefits of such capital expenditures. Our business may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general economic conditions or business risks associated with macro-economic challenges, including, without limitation, potential turmoil in financial, capital and equity markets and high levels of unemployment. Should these types of conditions and risks occur with sufficient severity, there can be no assurance that such changes would not materially impact the carrying value of our goodwill.We are Subject to Extensive and Costly Environmental and Other Governmental RegulationWe are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of substances, the regulation of chemicals used in our operations, as well as other financial and non-financial regulations, including items such as air and water quality, the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater and matters related to the health and safety of employees.We regularly make capital expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent. Consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially. In addition, we cannot currently assess the impact of future changes in governmental regulations, including future emissions standards and climate change initiatives (such as regulations on emissions from certain industrial boilers), and government’s enforcement practices will have on our operations or capital expenditure requirements. Further, we have been identified as a PRP at various third-party disposal sites pursuant to U.S. federal or state statutes. There can be no assurance that any liability we may incur in connection with these or other sites at which we may be identified in the future as a responsible party or in connection with other governmental requirements, including capital investments or business disruptions associated with regulatory compliance, will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Our operations also consume significant amounts of energy, and we may incur additional indirect costs as a result of changes in costs of energy due to increased climate-related regulations.Our Specialty Chemicals Business Sales Are Impacted by Factors Such As Adverse Conditions in the Automotive Market, Government Infrastructure Spending and Levels of Energy ExplorationSales of our automotive carbon products are tied to global automobile production levels. Automotive production in the markets we serve can be affected by macro-economic factors such as interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment trends, regulatory and legislative oversight requirements and trade agreements.A significant portion of our customers’ revenues in our pavement technologies business is derived indirectly from contracts with various foreign and U.S. governmental agencies, and therefore, when government spending is reduced, our customers’ need for these products is similarly reduced. While we do not do business directly with governmental agencies, our customers provide paving services to, the governments of various jurisdictions, and we anticipate that revenue either directly or indirectly attributable to such government spending will continue to remain a significant portion of our revenues for this business. Government business is, in general, subject to special risks and challenges, including: delays in funding and uncertainty regarding the allocation of funds to federal, state and local agencies, delays in the expenditures and delays or reductions in other state and local funding dedicated for transportation projects; other government budgetary constraints, cutbacks, delays or reallocation of government funding; long purchase cycles or approval processes; our customers’ competitive bidding and qualification requirements; changes in government policies and political agendas; and international conflicts or other military operations that could cause the temporary or permanent diversion of government funding from transportation or other infrastructure projects.Demand for our oilfield technologies services and products is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. The level of exploration, development and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, 19Table of Contentswhich historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile. During periods of reduced oilfield activity we are likely to experience reduced demand for our oilfield technology products, which may have a significant effect on our results of operations. Our Capital Expenditures May Not Achieve the Desired Outcome or May Be Achieved at a Higher CostWe regularly make capital expenditures with respect to our manufacturing facilities. Many of our projects are complex, costly and are implemented over an extended period of time. Consequently, it is possible that our capital expenditures could be higher than we anticipated, we may experience unanticipated business disruptions or we may not achieve the desired benefits from such projects. Should these types of conditions and risks occur with sufficient severity, there can also be no assurance that such conditions would not have an adverse effect upon our operating results.We May Incur Additional Restructuring CostsWe have restructured portions of our operations from time to time, including in connection with the Combination. It is possible that we may engage in additional restructuring initiatives. Because we are not able to predict with certainty market conditions, including the change in the supply and demand for our products, the loss of large customers, or the selling prices for our products, we also may not be able to predict with certainty when it will be appropriate to undertake restructurings. The costs associated with these activities will vary depending upon the type of facility impacted, with the non-cash cost of a mill closure generally being more significant than that of a converting facility due to the higher level of fixed costs. It is also possible, in connection with these restructuring efforts, that our costs could be higher than we anticipate and that we may not realize the expected benefits.We May Incur Increased Transportation CostsWe distribute our products primarily by truck and rail, although we also distribute some of our products by cargo ship. Reduced availability of trucks, rail cars or cargo ships could negatively impact our ability to ship our products in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that we will be able to recoup any past or future increases in transportation rates or fuel surcharges through price increases for our products.Work Stoppages and Other Labor Relations Matters May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial ResultsA significant number of our union employees are governed by CBAs. Expired contracts are in the process of renegotiation. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts without work stoppages or labor difficulties or renegotiate without unfavorable terms. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements or an industry association is unable to successfully negotiate a national agreement when they expire, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We May Incur Increased Employee Benefit Costs, Certain of Our Pension Plans Will Require Additional Cash Contributions and We May Incur Increased Funding Requirements in the Multiemployer Pension Plans in Which We ParticipateEmployee healthcare costs in recent years have continued to rise. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act has resulted in significant healthcare cost increases. Our pension and health care benefits are dependent upon multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Following the Combination, WestRock merged MWV’s U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans into the Rock-Tenn Company Consolidated Pension Plan, and renamed the merged plan the WestRock Company Consolidated Pension Plan. The WestRock Company Consolidated Pension Plan is over funded. Excluding the aforementioned pension plans, we expect to make future contributions to primarily our foreign pension plans in the coming years in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate and meet regulatory requirements. The actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be highly sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets, and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of fixed income, equity and alternative investments. Fluctuations in market performance of these assets and changes in interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels or mortality could also increase or decrease pension costs. There can be no assurance that such changes, including turmoil in financial and capital markets, will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We participate in several MEPPs administered by labor unions that provide retirement benefits to certain union employees in accordance with various CBAs. As one of many participating employers in these plans, we are generally responsible with the other participating employers for any plan underfunding. Our contributions to a particular MEPP are established by the applicable CBAs; 20Table of Contentshowever, our required contributions may increase based on the funded status of a MEPP and legal requirements such as those of the Pension Act, which requires substantially underfunded MEPPs to implement a funding improvement plan or a rehabilitation plan to improve their funded status. We believe that certain of the MEPPs in which we participate have material unfunded vested benefits. Due to uncertainty regarding future factors that could trigger a withdrawal liability, including partial withdrawal liabilities triggered by facility closures, as well as the absence of specific information regarding matters such as the MEPP's current financial situation due in part due to delays in reporting, the potential withdrawal or bankruptcy of other contributing employers, the impact of future plan performance or the success of current and future funding improvement or rehabilitation plans to restore solvency to the plans, we are unable to determine with certainty the amount and timing of any future withdrawal liability, changes in future funding obligations or the impact of increased contributions including those that could be triggered by a mass withdrawal of other employers from a MEPP. There can be no assurance that the impact of increased contributions, future funding obligations or future withdrawal liabilities will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are Subject to Cyber-Security Risks Related to Certain Customer, Employee, Vendor or Other Company DataWe use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely upon various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. Our systems are subject to repeated attempts by third parties to access information or to disrupt our systems. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third party providers, we could become subject to cyber-attacks which could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data. There can be no assurance that such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Our Success Is In Part Dependent On Our Ability to Develop and Successfully Introduce New Products and to Acquire and Retain Intellectual Property RightsOur ability to develop and successfully market new products and to develop, acquire and retain necessary intellectual property rights is important to our continued success and competitive position. If we were unable to protect our existing intellectual property rights, develop new rights, or if others developed similar or improved technologies, there can be no assurance that such events would not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.The Real Estate Industry is Highly Competitive and Economically CyclicalWe engage in value-added real estate development activities in the Charleston, South Carolina region, including obtaining entitlements and establishing joint ventures and other development-related arrangements. Our ability to execute our plans to realize the greater value associated with our development land holdings may be affected by the following factors, among others: • general economic conditions, including credit markets and interest rates;• local real estate market conditions, including competition from sellers of land and real estate developers; and• impact of federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting land use, land use entitlements, land protection and zoning.There can be no assurance that the impact of any such factors or our ability to execute such plans will not be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Item 1B