. “Risk Factors — We May Face Increased Costs or Inadequate Availability of Raw Materials, Energy and Transportation”.TransportationInbound and outbound freight is a significant expenditure for us. Factors that influence our freight expense are distance between our shipping and delivery locations, distance from customers and suppliers, mode of transportation (rail, truck, intermodal and ocean) and freight rates, which are influenced by supply and demand and fuel costs. The principal markets for our products are in North America, South America, Europe and Asia. See . “Risk Factors — We Depend on Certain Large Customers”.As a result of our vertical integration, our mills’ sales volumes may be directly impacted by changes in demand for our packaging products. During fiscal 2016, we sold approximately two-thirds of our coated natural kraft mill’s production and approximately one-fifth of our bleached paperboard production to our converting operations, primarily to manufacture folding and beverage cartons, and we sold approximately two-thirds of our containerboard production, including trade swaps and buy/sell transactions, to our converting operations, to manufacture corrugated products. Under the terms of our Seven Hills joint venture arrangement, our joint venture partner is required to purchase all of the qualifying gypsum paperboard liner produced by Seven Hills. Excluding the Seven Hills production and our Aurora, IL production converted into book covers and other products, we supplied approximately two-fifths of our specialty mills’ production in fiscal 2016 to our converting operations, primarily to manufacture interior partitions. We have the ability to move our internal sourcing among certain of our mills to optimize the efficiency of our operations.We market our products primarily through our own sales force. We also market a number of our products through independent sales representatives, independent distributors or both. We generally pay our sales personnel a base salary plus commissions. We pay our independent sales representatives on a commission basis. We discuss foreign net sales to unaffiliated customers and other non-U.S. operations financial and other segment information in “Note 20. Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.CompetitionWe operate in a challenging global marketplace and compete with many large, well established and highly competitive manufacturers and service providers. Our business is affected by a range of macroeconomic conditions, including industry capacity changes, global competition, economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad, as well as fluctuations in currency exchange rates.The industries we operate in are highly competitive, and no single company dominates any of those industries. Our paperboard and containerboard operations compete with integrated and non-integrated national and regional companies operating primarily in North America, and to a limited extent, manufacturers outside of North America. Our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. In the corrugated packaging and folding and beverage carton markets, we compete with a significant number of national, regional and local packaging suppliers in North America and abroad. Our dispensing operations compete globally with manufacturers for global end markets. In the solid fiber interior packaging, promotional point-of-purchase display and converted paperboard products markets, we primarily compete with a smaller number of national, regional and local companies offering highly specialized products. Our recycled fiber brokerage and collection operations compete with various other companies for the procurement and supply of recovered paper, including brokers and companies that export recovered paper to international markets. The Land and Development segment competes in the real estate sales and development market in the Charleston, SC region.Because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for sales opportunities to customers for new business or for renewal of existing business. Our packaging products compete with packaging made from other materials. The primary competitive factors we face include price, design, product innovation, quality and service, with varying emphasis on these factors depending on the product line and customer preferences. We believe that we compete effectively with respect to each of these factors and we evaluate our performance with annual customer surveys, among other means. The businesses we operate in have undergone consolidation. Within the packaging products industry, larger customers, with an expanded geographic presence, have tended to seek suppliers who can, because of their broad geographic presence, efficiently and economically supply all or a range of their packaging needs. In addition, our customers continue to demand higher quality products meeting stricter quality control requirements. See . “Risk Factors — We are Subject to Extensive and Costly Environmental and Other Governmental Regulation”.CERCLA and Other Remediation CostsWe face potential liability under federal, state, local and international laws as a result of releases, or threatened releases, of hazardous substances into the environment from various sites owned and operated by third parties at which Company-generated wastes have allegedly been deposited. Generators of hazardous substances sent to off-site disposal locations at which environmental problems exist, as well as the owners of those sites and certain other classes of persons, are liable for response costs for the investigation and remediation of such sites under CERCLA and analogous laws. While joint and several liability is authorized under CERCLA, liability is typically shared with other PRPs and costs are commonly allocated according to relative amounts of waste deposited and other factors.In addition, certain of our current or former locations are being investigated or remediated under various environmental laws and regulations. Based on information known to us and assumptions, we do not believe that the costs of these projects will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. However, the discovery of contamination or the imposition of additional obligations at these or other sites in the future could result in additional costs.10Table of ContentsOn January 26, 2009, Smurfit-Stone and certain of its subsidiaries filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Smurfit-Stone’s Canadian subsidiaries also filed to reorganize in Canada. We believe that matters relating to previously identified third party PRP sites and certain facilities formerly owned or operated by Smurfit-Stone have been or will be satisfied claims in the Smurfit-Stone bankruptcy proceedings. However, we may face additional liability for cleanup activity at sites that existed prior to bankruptcy discharge, but are not currently identified. Some of these liabilities may be satisfied from existing bankruptcy reserves.We believe that we can assert claims for indemnification pursuant to existing rights we have under settlement and purchase agreements in connection with certain of our existing remediation sites. In addition, we believe that we have insurance coverage, subject to applicable deductibles/retentions, policy limits and other conditions, for certain environmental matters. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful with respect to any claim regarding these insurance or indemnification rights or that, if we are successful, any amounts paid pursuant to the insurance or indemnification rights will be sufficient to cover all our costs and expenses. We also cannot predict with certainty whether we will be required to perform remediation projects at other locations, and it is possible that our remediation requirements and costs could increase materially in the future and exceed current reserves. In addition, we cannot currently assess with certainty the impact that future changes in cleanup standards or federal, state or other environmental laws, regulations or enforcement practices will have on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.We estimate that we will invest approximately $47 million for capital expenditures during fiscal 2017 in connection with matters relating to environmental compliance. It is possible that our capital expenditure assumptions may change, project completion dates may change, and our projections are subject to change due to items such as the finalization of ongoing engineering and implementation work, the EPA determinations on Boiler MACT implementation issues and the outcomes of pending legal challenges to the rules. Climate ChangeCertain jurisdictions in which we have manufacturing facilities or other investments have taken actions to address climate change. In the U.S., the EPA has issued the Clean Air Act permitting regulations applicable to certain facilities that emit GHG. The EPA also has promulgated a rule requiring certain industrial facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more of carbon dioxide equivalent per year to file an annual report of their emissions. While we have facilities subject to existing GHG permitting and reporting requirements, the impact of these requirements has not been material to date. Additionally, the EPA has been working on a set of interrelated rulemakings aimed at cutting carbon emissions from power plants. On August 3, 2015, the EPA issued a final rule establishing GHG emission guidelines for existing electric utility generating units (known as the “Clean Power Plan”). On the same day, the EPA issued a second rule setting standards of performance for new, modified and reconstructed electric utility generating units. While these rules do not apply directly to the power generation facilities at our mills, they have the potential to increase the cost of purchased electricity for our manufacturing operations and change the treatment of certain types of biomass that are currently considered carbon neutral. On February 9, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a stay halting implementation of the Clean Power Plan until the pending legal challenges to the rule are resolved. A number of states subject to the Clean Power Plan have stopped working on their implementation strategies in light of this decision; however, certain states where we operate manufacturing facilities are continuing their efforts. We are carefully monitoring the state-level developments relating to this rule. Due to ongoing litigation and other uncertainties regarding these GHG regulations, including the potential impact of a new U.S. executive administration in 2017, their impact on us cannot be quantified with certainty at this time.  In addition to national efforts to regulate climate change, some U.S. states in which we have manufacturing operations are also taking measures to reduce GHG emissions, such as requiring GHG emissions reporting or the development of regional cap-and trade programs. California has enacted a cap-and-trade program that took effect in 2012, and includes enforceable compliance obligations that began on January 1, 2013. We do not have any manufacturing facilities that are subject to the cap-and-trade requirements in California; however, we are continuing to monitor the implementation of this program as well as proposed mandatory GHG reduction efforts in other states. Also, the Washington Department of Ecology has issued a final rule, known as the Clean Air Rule, which limits GHGs from facilities that have average annual carbon dioxide equivalent emissions equal to or exceeding 100,000 metric tons/year and proposes to begin GHG emissions reduction requirements for some regulated entities in 2017. Energy intensive and trade exposed facilities and transportation fuel importers, including our Tacoma, WA mill, are subject to regulation under this program. In September 2016, various groups filed lawsuits against the Washington Department of Ecology challenging the Clean Air Rule. We are carefully monitoring this litigation to assess its potential impact on our Tacoma operations.In April 2016, the U.S. and over 170 other countries signed the Paris Agreement, which arose out of negotiations at the United Nation’s Conference of Parties (COP21) climate summit in December 2015. The Paris Agreement establishes a framework for 11Table of Contentsreducing global GHG emissions. By signing the Paris Agreement, the U.S. made a non-binding commitment to reduce economy-wide GHG emissions by 26% to 28% below 2005 levels by 2025. Other countries in which we conduct business, including China, European Union member states and India, have set similar GHG reduction targets. The Paris Agreement came into force on October 3, 2016. Although, the Paris Agreement does not contain legally binding emissions reduction requirements and it is unclear if the new U.S. executive administration will seek to implement it, implementing legislation by ratifying governments to achieve their respective commitments may require industrial facilities, including our operations, to make process changes, incur capital expenditures and/or increase operating costs.    Several of our international facilities are located in countries that have already adopted GHG emissions trading schemes. For example, Quebec has become a member of the Western Climate Initiative, which is a collaboration among California and certain Canadian provinces that have joined together to create a cap-and-trade program to reduce GHG emissions. In 2009, Quebec adopted a target of reducing GHG emissions by 20% below 1990 levels by 2020. In 2011, Quebec issued a final regulation establishing a regional cap-and-trade program that required reductions in GHG emissions from covered emitters as of January 1, 2013. Our mill in Quebec is subject to these cap-and-trade requirements, although the direct impact of this regulation has not been material to date. Compliance with this program and other similar programs may require future expenditures to meet required GHG emission reduction requirements in future years.   The regulation of climate change continues to develop in the areas of the world where we conduct business. We have systems in place for tracking the GHG emissions from our energy-intensive facilities, and we carefully monitor developments in climate change laws, regulations and policies to assess the potential impact of such developments on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and disclosure obligations.Patents and Other Intellectual PropertyWe hold a substantial number of foreign and domestic trademarks, trademark applications, trade names, patents, patent applications, and licenses relating to our business, our products and our production processes. Our patent portfolio consists primarily of utility and design patents relating to our products and manufacturing operations. It also includes exclusive rights to substantial proprietary packaging system technology in the U.S. or other licenses obtained from a third party. Our brand name and logo, and certain of our products and services, are protected by domestic and foreign trademark rights. Our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, particularly those relating to our converting operations, are important to our operations as a whole. Our intellectual property has various expiration dates. See . “Risk Factors — Work Stoppages and Other Labor Relations Matters May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial Results”.12Table of ContentsInternational OperationsOur operations outside the U.S. are conducted through subsidiaries located in Canada, Mexico, South America, Europe and Asia. Sales attributable to non-U.S. operations were 17.1%, 13.5% and 12.0% of our total net sales in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, some of which were transacted in U.S. dollars. For more information about our non-U.S. operations, see “Note 20. Segment Information” of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. See . “Risk Factors” and by similar disclosures in any of our subsequent SEC filings. The information contained herein speaks as of the date hereof and we do not have or undertake any obligation to update such information as future events unfold.Item 1A. RISK FACTORSWe are subject to certain risks and events that, if one or more of them occur, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. In evaluating us, our business and a potential investment in our securities, you should consider the following risk factors and the other information presented in this report, as well as the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC. The risks addressed below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial could also adversely impact our business in the future.We May Fail to Realize the Anticipated Benefits of the CombinationThe success of the Combination will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the RockTenn and MWV businesses in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities and realizes anticipated synergies, and achieves the identified projected cost savings and revenue growth trends. In connection with the Combination, we set a $1.0 billion annualized run rate synergy and performance improvement target, before inflation, to be realized by September 30, 2018. At September 30, 2016, we had achieved an annualized run rate of $500 million. We expected, and continue to expect, to (a) benefit from operational synergies resulting from the consolidation of capabilities and the elimination of redundancies, as well as greater efficiencies from increased scale and market integration and (b) realize revenue synergies through an expanded and complementary product offering and increased geographic reach. However, we must successfully combine the RockTenn and MWV businesses in a manner that permits these cost savings and synergies to be realized. In addition, we must achieve the anticipated cost savings and synergies without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the Combination is subject to a number of uncertainties, including market conditions, risks related to our businesses and whether we consolidate certain businesses and functions of RockTenn and MWV in an efficient, effective and timely manner. In particular, we may face significant challenges integrating the companies’ technologies, 15Table of Contentsorganizations, procedures, policies and operations, addressing differences in their business cultures and retaining key personnel. The integration may also be more difficult, complex, costly and time consuming than we expect, and the integration process and other disruptions resulting from the Combination may disrupt ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our relationships with employees, suppliers, customers and others with whom RockTenn and MWV had business or other dealings or limit our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Combination.If we are not able to successfully combine the RockTenn and MWV businesses within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected cost savings and synergies and other benefits of the Combination may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected, the combined businesses may not perform as expected, management’s time and energy may be diverted, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected.We May Experience Pricing VariabilityOur businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue experiencing, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions. The length and magnitude of these cycles have varied over time and by product. Prices for our products are driven by many factors, including general economic conditions, demand for our products and competitive conditions in our industry, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which may be unpredictable and volatile. If supply exceeds demand, prices for our products could decline, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock could be adversely affected. Further, certain published indices contribute to the setting of selling prices for some of our products. Future changes in how these indices are established or maintained could adversely impact selling prices. Our Earnings Are Highly Dependent on VolumesBecause our operations generally have high fixed operating cost components, our earnings are highly dependent on volumes, which tend to fluctuate. These fluctuations make it difficult to predict our financial results with any degree of certainty. Any failure to maintain volumes may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.We May Face Increased Costs or Inadequate Availability of Raw Materials, Energy and TransportationWe rely heavily on the use of certain raw materials, energy sources and third-party companies to transport our goods. The cost of recovered paper and virgin fiber, the principal externally sourced raw materials for our mills, are subject to pricing variability due to market and industry conditions. Increasing demand for products packaged in 100% recycled paper, greater demand for U.S. sourced recovered paper by Asian-based paper manufacturers, and the shift by manufacturers of virgin paperboard, tissue, newsprint and corrugated packaging to the production of products with some recycled paper content have and may continue to increase demand for recovered paper, which may result in cost increases. Certain published indices contribute to price setting for some of our raw materials. Future changes in how these indices are established or maintained could adversely impact pricing.  At times, the cost of natural gas, which we use in many of our manufacturing operations, including many of our mills, and other energy costs (including energy generated by burning natural gas, fuel oil, biomass and coal) have fluctuated significantly. High energy costs could increase our operating costs and make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors.We distribute our products primarily by truck and rail, although we also distribute some of our products by cargo ship. Reduced availability of trucks, rail cars or cargo ships could negatively impact our ability to ship our products in a timely manner, and high transportation costs could make our products less competitive compared to similar or alternative products offered by competitors. Because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we may not be able to recoup past or future increases in the cost of raw materials, energy or transportation through price increases for our products. The failure to obtain raw materials, energy or transportation services at reasonable market prices (or the failure to pass on price increases to our customers) or a reduction in the availability of raw materials, energy or transportation services due to increased demand or other factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.We Face Intense CompetitionWe compete in industries that are highly competitive, and no single company dominates an industry. Our competitors include large and small, vertically integrated companies and numerous smaller non-integrated companies. We generally compete with companies operating in North America, although we have operations spanning North America, South America, Europe and Asia. 16Table of ContentsCompetition from domestic or non-U.S. lower cost or more innovative manufacturers in the future could adversely impact our sales volumes and pricing, as could other actions taken by our competitors, including reducing the prices of their products, improving the quality of their products or enhancing their marketing or sales activities. To the extent one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected.  Our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. Customer shifts away from paperboard and containerboard packaging to packaging from other materials could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.Our Business Could Suffer if We Are Unsuccessful in Making, Integrating and Maintaining Mergers, Acquisitions and InvestmentsWe have completed several mergers, acquisitions and investments in recent years, and we may acquire or invest in or enter into joint ventures with additional companies. We may not be able to identify suitable targets or successfully complete suitable transactions in the future and completed transactions may not be successful. These transactions create risks, including, but not limited to:•disruption of our ongoing business, including loss of management focus on existing businesses;•difficulties in integrating acquired businesses and personnel into our business;•inability to achieve expected synergies;•working with partners or other ownership structures with shared decision-making authority;•difficulties in obtaining and verifying relevant information regarding a business prior to the consummation of the transaction, including the identification and assessment of liabilities, claims or other circumstances that could result in litigation or regulatory exposure; •inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms;•potential impairment of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill;•problems retaining key employees, contractual relationships or customers;•additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we acquire or in which we invest;•the difficulty of implementing at companies we acquire the controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company;•dilution of interests of holders of our Common Stock through the issuance of equity securities;•for non-U.S. transactions, additional risks related to the integration of operations across different cultures and languages, and the economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; and•acquisitions or investments may ultimately harm our business or financial condition, as they may not be successful.The Separation Could Result in Substantial Tax Liability to Us and to Those of Our Stockholders Who Received Ingevity Stock at the Time of the SeparationWe have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the Separation qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Ingevity and us regarding the past and future conduct of each of the two companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings prove to be incorrect or not satisfied, or if the IRS otherwise determines on audit that the Separation is taxable, our stockholders who received Ingevity stock at the time of the Separation and/or we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. If the Separation is determined to be taxable, those of our stockholders who received Ingevity stock at the time of the Separation and/or we could be subject to a substantial tax liability. If the Separation is determined to be taxable to those of our stockholders who received Ingevity stock at the time of the Separation, each of those stockholders would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the Ingevity shares received.Even if the Separation otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction to those of our stockholders who received Ingevity stock at the time of the Separation, the distribution could be taxable to us in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of Ingevity are determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Separation. In this event, the resulting tax liability would be substantial. In connection with the Separation, we entered into a tax matters agreement with Ingevity, pursuant to which Ingevity agreed (i) to not engage in certain transactions that could cause the Separation to be taxable to us and (ii) to indemnify us for any tax liabilities resulting from such a transaction. The indemnity from Ingevity may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities. Any tax liabilities resulting from the Separation or 17Table of Contentsrelated transactions could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.We May Be Exposed to Claims and Liabilities as a Result of the SeparationWe entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with Ingevity to govern the Separation and the relationship of the two companies going forward. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and Ingevity. The indemnity rights we have against Ingevity under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. In addition, our indemnity obligations to Ingevity may be significant and these risks could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.We May Be Adversely Affected by Economic and Financial Market Conditions, and Social and Political Change Our businesses may be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, such as general economic and business conditions, changes in tax laws or tax rates and conditions in the financial services markets, including counterparty risk, insurance carrier risk, rising interest rates, inflation, deflation, fluctuations in the value of local currency versus the U.S. dollar, the impact of a stronger U.S. dollar or changes in U.S social and political change impacting matters such as environmental regulations, non-U.S. trade policies, or other factors, each of which may adversely impact our ability to compete. Macro-economic challenges, including conditions in financial and capital markets and levels of unemployment, and the ability of the U.S. and other countries to address their rising debt levels may continue to put pressure on the economy or lead to changes in tax laws or tax rates. Changes in tax laws or tax rates may have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. Adverse developments in the U.S. and global economy, including locations such as Europe, Brazil, India and China, could adversely affect the demand for our products, our revenues and manufacturing costs. We are not able to predict with certainty economic and financial market conditions, and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected by adverse market conditions. Our Joint Ventures May Limit Our Flexibility with Respect to These Jointly Owned Investments We have invested in a number of joint ventures with other entities when circumstances warranted the use of these structures, and we may form additional joint ventures in the future. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks, including, but not limited to:•experiencing an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve impasses or potential disputes;•inability to maintain good relationships with our partners, which could limit our future growth potential;•conflict of interest issues if our partners have competing interests in our markets;•conflicting investment or operational goals with our partners, including the timing, terms and strategies for investments or future growth opportunities;•failure by our partners to fund their share of required capital contributions or to otherwise fulfill their obligations as partners, which may require us to infuse our own capital into these ventures on behalf of the related partner despite other competing uses for capital; and•obtaining consents from our partners for any sale or other disposition of our interest in a joint venture or underlying assets of the joint venture.Our Investment in Grupo Gondi May Require Us to Utilize Our Cash Flow or Incur Additional Indebtedness to Satisfy Certain Payment Obligations   In connection with our investment in the joint venture with Grupo Gondi, we entered into an option agreement pursuant to which we and certain shareholders of Grupo Gondi agreed to future put and call options with respect to the equity interests in the joint venture held by each party. These put and call arrangements may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of these arrangements, which may reduce the amount of funds available for our operations, capital expenditures and corporate development activities. Similarly, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness to satisfy our payment obligations in respect of these arrangements.  We are Exposed to Risks Related to International Sales and OperationsWe predominately operate in U.S. markets, but derive a portion of our total sales from outside the U.S. through international operations or exports to foreign customers. We are exposed to risks of operating in many countries, including, but not limited to:18Table of Contents•difficulties and costs associated with complying with a wide variety of complex laws, treaties and regulations;•unexpected changes in political or regulatory environments; earnings and cash flows that may be subject to tax withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions;•restrictions on, or difficulties and costs associated with, the repatriation of cash from foreign countries to the U.S.;•political and economic instability;•import and export restrictions and other trade barriers; •difficulties in maintaining overseas subsidiaries and international operations;•difficulties in obtaining approval for significant transactions;•government limitations on foreign ownership;•government takeover or nationalization of business;•government mandated price controls; and•fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.Any one or more of these risks could adversely affect our international operations and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.The Future Success of our International Operations Could be Adversely Affected by Violations or Alleged Violations of the Anti-Bribery LawsThe FCPA, and similar world-wide anti-bribery laws, including those in Brazil, Mexico and India (where we maintain operations directly or through a joint venture), prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with anti-bribery laws, including the FCPA. Our internal control policies and procedures, or those of our vendors, may not adequately protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed or alleged to be committed by our employees, agents or vendors. Any such allegations could lead to civil or criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties and/or could damage our reputation. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.We Depend on Certain Large CustomersEach of our corrugated packaging and consumer packaging segments has large customers, the loss of which could adversely affect the segment’s sales and, depending on the significance of the loss, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. In particular, because all of our businesses operate in highly competitive industry segments, we regularly bid for new business or for the renewal of existing business. The loss of business from our larger customers, or the renewal of business on less favorable terms, may adversely impact our financial results.We May Incur Business DisruptionsThe operations at our manufacturing facilities may be interrupted or impaired by various operating risks, including, but not limited to:•catastrophic events, such as fires, floods, explosions, natural disasters, severe weather or other similar occurrences;•interruptions in the delivery of raw materials or other manufacturing inputs;•adverse government regulations;•equipment breakdowns or failures;•unscheduled maintenance;•information system failures;•violations of our permit requirements or revocation of permits;•releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or ground water;•shortages of equipment or spare parts; and•labor disputes.The occurrence of any of these events may impair our production capabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. Our Net Income Could Be Negatively Affected If Interest Rates IncreaseWe maintain levels of fixed and floating rate debt that we consider prudent based on our cash flows (and other financial metrics) and business outlook, and these levels may vary over time. Our floating rate debt exposes us to changes in interest rates. 19Table of ContentsWe utilize fixed rate debt and, from time to time, derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to interest rate risks. However, our financial risk management may not be successful in reducing the risks inherent in exposures to interest rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and the trading price of our Common Stock. A Downgrade in our Credit Ratings Could Adversely Affect our BusinessSome of our outstanding indebtedness has received credit ratings from rating agencies. These ratings are limited in scope and do not purport to address all risks relating to an investment in those debt securities. Our credit ratings could change based on, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. These ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and they may be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency or placed on a so-called “watch list” for a possible downgrade or assigned a negative ratings outlook if, in any rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. If a downgrade or negative outlook were to occur, it could impact our ability to access the capital markets to raise debt and/or increase the cost thereof. In addition, while our credit ratings are important to us, we may take actions and otherwise operate our business in a manner that adversely affects our credit ratings. We are Subject to Extensive and Costly Environmental and Other Governmental RegulationWe are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those regulating the discharge, storage, handling and disposal of a variety of substances, the regulation of chemicals used in our operations, as well as other financial and non-financial regulations, including items such as air and water quality, the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater, standards applicable to our finished products and matters related to the health and safety of employees.We regularly make capital expenditures to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, environmental laws and regulations are becoming increasingly stringent. Consequently, our compliance and remediation costs could increase materially. In addition, we cannot currently assess the impact of future changes in governmental regulations, including future emissions standards (such as regulations on emissions from certain industrial boilers), climate change initiatives and government’s enforcement practices will have on our operations or capital expenditure requirements. Further, we are responsible for conducting environmental investigation and cleanup activities at current and formerly owned sites. We also have been identified as a PRP at various third-party disposal sites pursuant to U.S. federal or state statutes. Any liability we may incur in connection with these or other sites at which we may be identified in the future as a responsible party or in connection with other governmental requirements, including capital investments or business disruptions associated with regulatory compliance, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. In addition, our operations also consume significant amounts of energy, and we may incur additional indirect costs as a result of changes in costs of energy due to increased climate-related and other environmental regulations.Our Capital Expenditures May Not Achieve the Desired Outcome or May Be Achieved at a Higher Cost than AnticipatedWe regularly make capital expenditures with respect to our manufacturing facilities. Many of our projects are complex, costly and are implemented over an extended period of time. Consequently, our capital expenditures could be higher than we anticipated, we may experience unanticipated business disruptions and/or we may not achieve the desired benefits from these projects. Should these types of conditions and risks occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.We May Incur Additional Restructuring Costs and May Not Realize Expected Benefits from RestructuringWe have restructured portions of our operations from time to time, including in connection with the Combination, and we may engage in additional restructuring initiatives. Because we are not able to predict with certainty market conditions, including changes in the supply and demand for our products, the loss of large customers or the selling prices for our products, we also may not be able to predict with certainty when it will be appropriate to undertake restructurings. The costs associated with these activities will vary depending upon the type of facility impacted, with the non-cash cost of a mill closure generally being more significant than that of a converting facility due to the higher level of fixed costs. It is also possible, in connection with these restructuring efforts, that our costs could be higher than we anticipate and that we may not realize the expected benefits.20Table of ContentsWork Stoppages and Other Labor Relations Matters May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Financial ResultsA significant number of our union employees are governed by CBAs. Expired contracts are in the process of renegotiation, and others expire within one year. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new union contracts without work stoppages or labor difficulties or renegotiate them on favorable terms. We have experienced work stoppages in the past and we may experience work stoppages in the future. If we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements or an industry association is unable to successfully negotiate a national agreement when it expires, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our results of operations and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected. We May Incur Increased Employee Benefit Costs and Certain of Our Pension Plans Will Likely Require Additional Cash ContributionsEmployee healthcare costs continue to rise. Our pension contribution and health care benefits costs depend on multiple factors resulting from actual plan experience and assumptions of future experience. Following the Combination, WestRock merged MWV’s U.S. qualified defined benefit pension plans into the Rock-Tenn Company Consolidated Pension Plan, and renamed the merged plan the WestRock Company Consolidated Pension Plan. The WestRock Company Consolidated Pension Plan is over funded. We expect to make future contributions primarily to our non-U.S. pension plans in the coming years in order to ensure that our funding levels remain adequate and meet regulatory requirements. The actual required amounts and timing of future cash contributions will be highly sensitive to changes in the applicable discount rates and returns on plan assets, and could also be impacted by future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to plan funding. Our pension plan assets are primarily made up of fixed income, equity and alternative investments. Fluctuations in market performance of these assets and changes in interest rates may result in increased or decreased pension costs in future periods. Changes in assumptions regarding expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, our discount rate, expected compensation levels or mortality could also increase or decrease pension costs. These changes, along with turmoil in financial and capital markets, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. We May Incur Increased Funding Requirements in the Multiemployer Pension Plans in Which We ParticipateWe participate in several MEPPs administered by labor unions that provide retirement benefits to certain union employees in accordance with various CBAs. As one of many participating employers in these plans, we are generally responsible with the other participating employers for any plan underfunding. Our contributions to a particular MEPP are established by the applicable CBAs; however, our required contributions may increase based on the funded status of a MEPP and legal requirements such as those of the Pension Act, which requires substantially underfunded MEPPs to implement a funding improvement plan or a rehabilitation plan to improve their funded status. We believe certain of the MEPPs in which we participate have material unfunded vested benefits. Due to uncertainty regarding future factors that could trigger a withdrawal liability, including partial withdrawal liabilities triggered by facility closures, as well as the absence of specific information regarding matters such as the MEPPs’ current financial situation due in part to delays in reporting, the potential withdrawal or bankruptcy of other contributing employers, the impact of future plan performance or the success of current and future funding improvement or rehabilitation plans to restore solvency to the plans, we are unable to determine with certainty the amount and timing of any future withdrawal liability, changes in future funding obligations or the impact of increased contributions including those that could be triggered by a mass withdrawal of other employers from a MEPP. MEPPs may also be significantly impacted by changes in legislation and actions taken by particular MEPP trustees. The impact of increased contributions, future funding obligations or future withdrawal liabilities may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock. We are Subject to Cyber-Security Risks Related to Customer, Employee, Vendor or Other Company DataWe use information technologies to securely manage operations and various business functions. We rely on various technologies to process, store and report on our business and interact with customers, vendors and employees. Our systems are subject to repeated attempts by third parties to access information or to disrupt our systems. Despite our security design and controls, and those of our third-party providers, we may become subject to cyber-attacks that could result in operational disruptions or the misappropriation of sensitive data. Such disruptions or misappropriations and the resulting repercussions may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.21Table of ContentsWe Depend On Our Ability to Develop and Successfully Introduce New Products and to Acquire and Retain Intellectual Property RightsOur ability to develop and successfully market new products and to develop, acquire and retain necessary intellectual property rights is important to our continued success and competitive position. If we were unable to protect our existing intellectual property rights, develop new rights, or if others developed similar or improved technologies our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock, could be adversely affected.Our Real Estate Development Activities are Subject to ChallengesWe engage in value-added real estate development activities in the Charleston, SC region, including obtaining entitlements and establishing joint ventures and other development-related arrangements. Our ability to execute our plans to realize the greater value associated with our development land holdings may be affected by the following factors, among others: •general economic conditions, including credit markets and interest rates;•local real estate market conditions, including competition from sellers of land and real estate developers; and•impact of federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting land use, land use entitlements, land protection and zoning.Any failure to execute our plans could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the trading price of our Common Stock.Item 1B