, Risk Factors, and the "Enhanced Regulatory Compliance" section in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Additionally, our ability to enter into or maintain exclusive arrangements with our agents has been and may continue to be challenged by both regulators and certain of our current and prospective agents. Further, we are seeing increased competition from, and increased market acceptance of, electronic, mobile, and Internet-based money transfer services as well as digital currencies.9Table of ContentsCompetitionWe face robust competition in the highly-fragmented Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer industry. We compete with a variety of remittance providers, including:•Global money transfer providers - Global money transfer providers allow consumers to send money to a wide variety of locations, in both their home countries and abroad.•Regional money transfer providers - Regional money transfer providers, or "niche" providers, provide the same services as global money transfer providers, but focus on a smaller group of geographic corridors or services within one region, such as North America to the Caribbean, Central or South America, or Western Europe to North Africa.•Electronic channels - Online money transfer service providers, including certain electronic payment providers, allow consumers to send and receive money electronically using the Internet or through mobile devices. Electronic channels also include digital wallets, digital currencies, and social media and other predominantly communication or commerce oriented platforms that offer money transfer services.•Banks, postbanks, and post offices - Banks, postbanks, and post offices of all sizes compete with us in a number of ways, including bank wire services, payment instrument issuances, and card-based services. •Informal networks - Informal networks enable people to transfer funds without formal mechanisms and often without compliance with government reporting requirements. We believe that such networks comprise a significant share of the market.•Alternative channels - Alternative channels for sending and receiving money include mail and commercial courier services, and card-based options, such as ATM cards and stored-value cards.We believe the most significant competitive factors in Consumer-to-Consumer remittances relate to the overall consumer value proposition, including brand recognition, trust, reliability, consumer experience, price, speed of delivery, distribution network, variety of payment methods, and channel options.Consumer-to-Business SegmentIn our Consumer-to-Business segment, which represented 12% of our total consolidated revenues for 2015, we provide fast and convenient options to make one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers, government agencies and other businesses. We believe our business customers who receive payments through our services benefit from their relationship with Western Union as it provides them with real-time or near real-time posting of their customers' payments. In many circumstances, our relationships with business customers also provide them with an additional source of income, as well as reduced expenses for cash and check handling.OperationsOur revenue in this segment is derived primarily from transaction fees paid by the consumer. The transaction fees are typically less than the fees charged in our Consumer-to-Consumer segment. Consumers may make a cash payment at an agent or Company-owned location or may make an electronic payment on the Internet or over the phone using their credit or debit card, or through ACH. Our Internet services are provided through our own websites or in partnership with other websites for which we act as the service provider. The significant majority of the segment's revenue was generated in the United States during all periods presented, with the remainder primarily generated in Argentina. 10Table of ContentsServicesOur Consumer-to-Business payments services are available through a variety of options that give consumers choices as to the payment channel and method of payment, and include the following:Speedpay®. Our Speedpay service is offered principally in the United States and allows consumers to make payments to a variety of businesses using credit cards, debit cards, ACH and in limited situations, checks. Payments are initiated through the Internet or over the phone. We also partner with some businesses to allow their customers to access Speedpay from their websites.Pago Fácil®. In South America, we offer walk-in, cash bill payment services which allow consumers to make payments for services such as phone, utilities and other recurring bills. In Argentina, we provide this service under the Pago Fácil brand, which constitutes the vast majority of our services in South America. We offer this service under the Western Union brand in Peru and Panama.Western Union Payments. The Western Union Payments service, which includes our Quick Collect® service, allows consumers to send funds to businesses and government agencies, primarily across the United States and Canada, using cash and, in certain locations, a debit card. This service is offered primarily at Western Union agent locations, but is provided via our westernunion.com website in limited situations. This service is also offered in select international locations under the service mark Quick PaySM. We also offer Quick Cash®, a cash disbursement service used by businesses, government agencies, and financial institutions primarily to send money to employees or individuals with whom they have accounts or other business relationships. Consumers also use our Western Union Convenience Pay® ("Convenience Pay") service to send payments by cash or check from a smaller number of Convenience Pay agent locations primarily to utilities and telecommunication providers. Distribution and Marketing ChannelsOur electronic consumer payment services are available primarily through the phone and Internet, including through certain mobile devices, while our cash-based consumer services are available through our agent networks and at select Company-owned locations that are primarily in South America. Businesses market our services to consumers in a number of ways, and we market our services directly to consumers using a variety of means, including advertising materials, promotional activities, call campaigns and attendance at trade shows and seminars. Our Internet services are marketed to consumers on our websites, on the websites of our partners who offer our payment solutions or through co-branding arrangements with these partners.Consumers can make payments to over 15,000 businesses through our Consumer-to-Business services. These relationships are a core component of our payments services. No individual consumer or business accounted for greater than 10% of this segment's revenue during all periods presented.Industry TrendsThe payments industry has evolved with technological innovations that have created new methods of processing payments from consumers to businesses. The various services within the payments industry are in varying stages of development outside the United States. We believe that the United States is moving toward electronic payment methods through the use of multiple technologies and away from cash and paper checks for bill payments.11Table of ContentsCompetitionWestern Union competes with a diverse set of service providers offering both cash and electronic-based payment solutions. Competition in electronic payment services includes financial institutions (which may offer consumer bill payment in their own name or may "host" payment services operated under the names of their clients) and other non-bank competitors. Competition for electronic payments also includes businesses offering their own or third-party services to their own customers and third-party providers of all sizes offering services directly to consumers. Competitors for cash payments include businesses that allow consumers to pay a bill at one of their locations, or at the location of a partner business, as well as mail and courier services. The ongoing trend away from cash-based bill payments in the United States and competitive pressures, which result in lower cash-based bill payment volumes and a shift to lower revenue per transaction services, continues to impact this business.We believe the most significant competitive factors in this segment relate to customer service, trust and reliability, convenience, speed, price, variety of payment methods, biller relationships and service offerings, innovation, technology, and brand recognition.Business Solutions SegmentIn our Business Solutions segment, which represented 7% of our total consolidated revenues for 2015, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals. OperationsThe substantial majority of our revenue in this segment is derived from foreign exchange revenues, which are based on the difference between the exchange rate set by us to the customer and the rate at which we are able to acquire the currency. Customers may make an electronic or wire transfer or remit a check in order to initiate a transaction. Our Internet services are provided through our own websites and also in partnership with others. The significant majority of the segment's revenue was generated outside the United States during all periods presented.ServicesBusiness Solutions payment transactions are conducted through various channels including the phone and Internet. Payments are made predominately through electronic transfers, but in some situations, checks are remitted. The majority of Business Solutions' business relates to exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. For certain payment services such as for law firms and educational institution payments, we provide tailored payment solutions. In addition, in certain countries, we write foreign currency forward and option contracts for customers to facilitate future payments, which usually generate higher revenue per transaction than spot payments. Distribution and Marketing ChannelsOur Business Solutions services are primarily offered over the phone, through partner channels, and via the Internet. Our Internet services are marketed through co-branding arrangements with our website partners as well as on our own websites.We have relationships with more than 100,000 customers with respect to our payment solutions. These relationships are a core component of our business payments services. No individual customer accounted for greater than 10% of this segment's revenue.Industry TrendsThe business-to-business payments industry has evolved with technological innovations that have created new methods of processing payments from businesses to other businesses. The various products and services within the business-to-business payments industry are in varying stages of development. We believe that the cross-border payments industry will expand in the future due to the expanding global focus of many businesses. Increased regulation and compliance requirements are trends also impacting the business-to-business payments industry, which will likely result in increased costs in this segment.12Table of ContentsCompetitionWestern Union competes with a diverse set of service providers offering payment services and foreign exchange risk management solutions, including financial institutions and other non-bank competitors. We believe the most significant competitive factors in this segment relate to recurring relationships founded on customer service and expertise in payments and foreign exchange, customized solutions for specific industries and clients, convenience and speed of payments network, availability of derivative products, variety of inbound and outbound payment methods, brand recognition and price.OtherOur remaining businesses, including our money order services, are grouped in the "Other" category, which also includes costs for the review and closing of acquisitions.Consumers use our money orders for making purchases, paying bills, and as an alternative to checks. We derive investment income from interest generated on our money order settlement assets, which are primarily held in United States tax exempt state and municipal debt securities.Intellectual PropertyThe Western Union logos, trademarks, service marks and trade dress are registered and/or used worldwide and are material to our Company. The WU® service mark and logos are also registered and used in many countries around the world. We offer money transfer services under the Western Union, Orlandi ValutaSM and Vigo® brands. We also provide various payment and other services such as Western Union Payments, Quick Collect, Convenience Pay, Quick Pay, Quick Cash, Speedpay, Pago Fácil (registered in Argentina), and Western Union Business Solutions.Our operating results over the past several years have allowed us to invest significantly each year to support our brands. In 2015, we invested approximately $210 million to market, advertise and promote our brands and services, including costs of dedicated marketing personnel. In some regions, our agents have also contributed financial resources to assist with marketing our services.13Table of ContentsRisk ManagementOur Company has a credit risk management department that evaluates and monitors our credit and fraud risks. We are exposed to credit risk related to receivable balances from agents in the money transfer, walk-in bill payment and money order settlement process. We also are exposed to credit risk directly from consumer transactions particularly through our electronic channels, which include our westernunion.com, account based money transfer and mobile money transfer services, where transactions are originated through means other than cash, and therefore are subject to "chargebacks," insufficient funds, or other collection impediments, such as fraud, which are anticipated to increase as electronic channels become a greater proportion of our money transfer business. Our credit risk management team monitors fraud risks jointly with our information security and global compliance departments, performs credit reviews before each agent signing, and conducts periodic analyses of agents and certain other parties we transact with directly. We are exposed to credit risk in our Business Solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. For the derivatives, the duration of these contracts at inception is generally less than one year. The credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. For those receivables where we have offered trade credit, collection ordinarily occurs within a few days. To mitigate risk associated with potential customer defaults, we perform credit reviews on an ongoing basis, and, for our derivatives, we may require certain customers to post or increase collateral. To manage our exposures to credit risk with respect to investment securities, money market fund investments, derivatives and other credit risk exposures resulting from our relationships with banks and financial institutions, we regularly review investment concentrations, trading levels, credit spreads and credit ratings, and we attempt to diversify our investments among global financial institutions.A key component of the Western Union business model is our ability to manage financial risk associated with conducting transactions worldwide. We settle with the majority of our agents in United States dollars or euros. However, in certain circumstances, we settle in other currencies. We typically require the agent to obtain local currency to pay recipients; thus, we generally are not reliant on international currency markets to obtain and pay illiquid currencies. The foreign currency exposure that does exist is limited by the fact that the majority of money transfer transactions are paid by the next day after they are initiated and agent settlements occur within a few days in most instances. We also utilize foreign currency exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts, to mitigate the risks associated with currency fluctuations and to provide predictability of future cash flows. We have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management due to the nature of our Business Solutions business. The majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. Business Solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. Our financial results may fluctuate due to changes in interest rates. We review our overall exposure to floating and fixed rates by evaluating our net asset or liability position in each, also considering the duration of the individual positions. We manage this mix of fixed versus floating exposure in an attempt to minimize risk, reduce costs and improve returns. Our exposure to interest rates can be modified by changing the mix of our interest-bearing assets as well as adjusting the mix of fixed versus floating rate debt. The latter is accomplished primarily through the use of interest rate swaps and the decision regarding terms of any new debt issuances (i.e., fixed versus floating). We use interest rate swaps designated as hedges to increase the percentage of floating rate debt, subject to market conditions.14Table of ContentsInternational InvestmentNo provision has been made for United States federal and state income taxes on certain of our outside tax basis differences, which primarily relate to accumulated foreign earnings of approximately $6.1 billion as of December 31, 2015, as we have reinvested and expect to continue to reinvest these earnings outside the United States indefinitely. Over the last several years, such earnings have been used to pay for our international acquisitions and operations and provide initial Company funding of global principal payouts for Consumer-to-Consumer and Business Solutions transactions. However, if we are unable to utilize accumulated earnings outside of the United States and we repatriate these earnings to the United States in the form of actual or constructive dividends, we would be subject to significant United States federal income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits), state income taxes and possible withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries. RegulationOur business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the United States federal government, each of the states, many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions, including the European Union. These include an increasingly strict set of legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. These also include laws and regulations regarding financial services, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. Failure by Western Union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom Western Union has limited legal and practical control), and certain of our service providers to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer services and/or payment services or foreign exchange products, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, changes to our business model, loss of consumer confidence, private class action litigation, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services.We have developed and continue to enhance our global compliance programs, including our anti-money laundering program comprised of policies, procedures, systems and internal controls to monitor and to address various legal and regulatory requirements. In addition, we continue to adapt our business practices and strategies to help us comply with current and evolving legal standards and industry practices, including heightened regulatory focus on compliance with anti-money laundering or fraud prevention requirements. As of December 31, 2015, these programs included approximately 2,200 dedicated compliance personnel, training and monitoring programs, suspicious activity reporting, regulatory outreach and education, and support and guidance to our agent network on regulatory compliance. Our money transfer and payment service networks operate through third-party agents in most countries, and, therefore, there are limitations on our legal and practical ability to completely control those agents' compliance activities. In 2015, we spent approximately $200 million on our compliance and regulatory programs.Money Transfer and Payment Instrument Licensing and RegulationMost of our services are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act in the United States, as amended (collectively, the "BSA"), and similar laws and regulations. The BSA, among other things, requires money transfer companies and the issuers and sellers of money orders to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, to report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and in some cases, to collect and maintain information about consumers who use their services and maintain other transaction records. In addition to United States federal laws and regulations, many other countries and states impose similar and, in some cases, more stringent requirements. These requirements also apply to our agents and their subagents. In addition, the United States Department of the Treasury has interpreted the BSA to require money transfer companies to conduct due diligence into and risk-based monitoring of their agents inside and outside the United States, and certain states also require money transfer companies to conduct due diligence reviews of their agents and subagents. Compliance with anti-money laundering laws and regulations continues to be a focus of regulatory attention, with recent agreements being reached with Western Union, other money transfer providers and several large financial institutions.15Table of ContentsEconomic and trade sanctions programs administered by the United States Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") and by certain foreign jurisdictions prohibit or restrict transactions to or from (or dealings with or involving) certain countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, as well as with certain individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. We provide limited money transfer and payments services to individuals in Cuba, Syria and Sudan in accordance with United States laws authorizing such services and pursuant to and as authorized by advisory opinions of, or specific or general licenses issued by, OFAC.In the United States, almost all states license certain of our services and many exercise authority over the operations of certain aspects of our business and, as part of this authority, regularly examine us. Many states require us to invest the principal of outstanding money orders, money transfers, or payments in highly-rated, investment grade securities, and our use of such investments is restricted to satisfy outstanding settlement obligations. We regularly monitor credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities in compliance with these regulations. The substantial majority of our investment securities, classified within "Settlement assets" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, are held in order to comply with state licensing requirements in the United States and are required to have credit ratings of "A-" or better from a major credit rating agency.These licensing laws also cover matters such as government approval of controlling shareholders and senior management of our licensed entities, regulatory approval of agents and in some instances their locations, consumer disclosures and the filing of periodic reports by the licensee, and require the licensee to demonstrate and maintain certain net worth levels. Many states also require money transfer providers and their agents to comply with federal and/or state anti-money laundering laws and regulations.Outside of the United States, our money transfer business is subject to some form of regulation in almost all of the countries and territories in which we offer those services. These laws and regulations may include limitations on what types of entities may offer money transfer services, agent registration requirements, limitations on the amount of principal that can be sent into or out of a country, limitations on the number of money transfers that may be sent or received by a consumer and controls on the rates of exchange between currencies. They also include laws and regulations intended to detect and prevent money laundering or terrorist financing, including obligations to collect and maintain information about consumers, recordkeeping, reporting and due diligence, and supervision of agents and subagents similar to and in some cases exceeding those required under the BSA. In most countries, either we or our agents are required to obtain licenses or to register with a government authority in order to offer money transfer services.The Payment Services Directive ("PSD") in the European Union ("EU") and similar laws in other jurisdictions have imposed rules on payment service providers like Western Union. In particular, Western Union is responsible for the regulatory compliance of our agents and their subagents who are engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries. Thus, the costs to monitor our agents and the risk of adverse regulatory action against us because of the actions of our agents in those areas have increased. The majority of our EU business is managed through our Irish payment institution subsidiary, which is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland. Under the PSD and similar laws in certain other jurisdictions, we are subject to requirements such as investment safeguarding rules and periodic examinations similar to those we are subject to in the United States. These rules have resulted in increased compliance costs and may lead to increased competition in our areas of service. Additional countries may adopt legislation similar to these laws. The PSD, as well as legislation in other countries, has also allowed an increased number of non-bank entities to become money transfer agents, allowing Western Union and other money transfer providers to expand their agent networks in these countries but also resulting in increased competition. 16Table of ContentsOn February 11, 2010, Western Union Financial Services, Inc. ("WUFSI"), a subsidiary of the Company, signed a settlement agreement ("Southwest Border Agreement"), which resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the State of Arizona and required us to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the United States and Mexico border, in which California, Texas and New Mexico are participating with Arizona. As part of the Southwest Border Agreement, we have made and expect to make certain investments in our compliance programs along the United States and Mexico border and a monitor (the "Monitor") has been engaged for those programs. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the Southwest Border Agreement. The Monitor has made a number of recommendations related to our compliance programs, which we are implementing, including programs related to our Business Solutions segment. On January 31, 2014, the Southwest Border Agreement was amended to extend its term until December 31, 2017 (the "Amendment"). The Amendment imposes additional obligations on the Company and WUFSI in connection with WUFSI’s anti-money laundering compliance programs and cooperation with law enforcement. See Part I, , Risk Factors - "The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the regulations required by that Act and the actions of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows."  Unclaimed Property RegulationsOur Company is subject to unclaimed property laws in the United States and in certain other countries. These laws require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by our Company that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers and money orders. We hold property subject to unclaimed property laws and we have an ongoing program designed to help us comply with these laws. We are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices.18Table of ContentsPrivacy Regulations and Information Security StandardsWe must collect, transfer, disclose, use and store personal information in order to provide our services. These activities are subject to information security standards, data privacy, data breach and related laws and regulations in the United States and other countries. In the United States, data privacy and data breach laws such as the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and various state laws apply directly to a broad range of financial institutions including money transfer providers like Western Union, and indirectly to companies that provide services to or on behalf of those institutions. The United States Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") has an on-going program of investigating the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multimillion dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. The FTC, CFPB, and several states have expanded their area of concern to include privacy practices related to online and mobile applications. Many state laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, state officers and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a data breach of computer databases or physical documents that contain certain types of non-public personal information and present a risk for unauthorized use or potential harm. The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of personal information required to provide our services is subject to data privacy laws in countries outside of the United States, such as laws adopted pursuant to the EU's 95/46 EC Directive of the European Parliament, and other national and provincial laws throughout the world. In some cases, these laws are more restrictive than the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and impose more stringent duties on companies. As in the United States, areas of concern include online and mobile applications. These laws, which are not uniform, do one or more of the following: regulate the collection, transfer (including in some cases, the transfer outside the country of collection), processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy practices, and give individuals certain access and correction rights with respect to their personal information and prevent the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing. Under certain circumstances, some of these laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, data protection authorities and/or other regulators in the event of a data breach. The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union are expected to adopt a comprehensive general data privacy regulation (“GDPR”) in 2016 that will replace the current EU Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation. The GDPR is anticipated to take effect in mid-2018. We are analyzing the GDPR to determine its potential effects on our business practices. Complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR may result in significant costs to our business and require us to amend certain of our business practices.These regulations, laws and industry standards also impose requirements for safeguarding personal information through the issuance of internal data security standards, controls or guidelines. Western Union maintains and upgrades its systems and processes to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets. For further discussion of these risks, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "Breaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows."In connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, Western Union makes information available to certain United States federal, state, and foreign government agencies when required by law. In recent years, Western Union has experienced increasing data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. During the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. These regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While we believe that Western Union is compliant with its regulatory responsibilities in all material respects, the legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose Western Union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. 19Table of ContentsBanking RegulationsWe have subsidiaries that operate under banking licenses granted by the Austrian Financial Market Authority and the Brazilian Central Bank. We are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the New York State Department of Financial Services (the "Financial Services Department"), which has regulatory authority over our entity that holds all interests in these subsidiaries. Further, an Agreement of Supervision with the Financial Services Department imposes various regulatory requirements including operational limitations, capital requirements, affiliate transaction limitations, and notice and reporting requirements on this entity. However, because this entity and its subsidiaries do not exercise banking powers in the United States, we are not subject to the Bank Holding Company Act in the United States.OtherSome of our services are subject to card association rules and regulations. For example, an independent standards-setting organization, the Payment Card Industry ("PCI") Security Standards Council (including American Express, Discover Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and Visa Inc. International) developed a set of comprehensive requirements concerning payment card account security through the transaction process, called the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS"). All merchants and service providers that store, process and transmit payment card data are required to comply with PCI DSS as a condition to accepting credit cards. We are subject to annual reviews to ensure compliance with PCI regulations worldwide and are subject to fines if we are found to be non-compliant.Employees and LaborAs of December 31, 2015, our businesses employed approximately 10,000 employees, of which approximately 8,000 employees are located outside the United States. Available InformationThe Western Union Company is a Delaware corporation and its principal executive offices are located at 12500 East Belford Avenue, Englewood, CO, 80112, telephone (866) 405-5012. The Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the "Investor Relations" portion of the Company's website, www.westernunion.com, as soon as reasonably practical after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically with the SEC by the Company.20Table of ContentsExecutive Officers of the RegistrantAs of February 19, 2016, our executive officers consist of the individuals listed below: NameAgePositionHikmet Ersek55President, Chief Executive Officer and DirectorRajesh K. Agrawal50Executive Vice President, Chief Financial OfficerOdilon Almeida54Executive Vice President and President, Americas and European UnionElizabeth G. Chambers53Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy and Product OfficerJohn R. Dye56Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryJean Claude Farah45Executive Vice President and President, Middle East, Africa, APAC, Eastern Europe & CISDiane Scott45Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing OfficerJ. David Thompson49Executive Vice President, Global Operations and Chief Information OfficerRichard L. Williams50Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources OfficerHikmet Ersek is our President and Chief Executive Officer (from September 2010) and a member of the Company's Board of Directors (from April 2010). From January 2010 to August 2010, Mr. Ersek served as the Company's Chief Operating Officer. Prior to January 2010, Mr. Ersek served as the Company's Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific Region from December 2008. From September 2006 to December 2008, Mr. Ersek served as the Company's Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Europe/Middle East/Africa/South Asia. Prior to September 2006, Mr. Ersek held various positions of increasing responsibility with Western Union. Prior to joining Western Union in September 1999, Mr. Ersek was with GE Capital specializing in European payment systems and consumer finance.Rajesh K. Agrawal is our Executive Vice President (from November 2011) and Chief Financial Officer (from July 2014) and served as Executive Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer from January 2014 to July 2014. Prior to January 2014, Mr. Agrawal served as President, Western Union Business Solutions from August 2011. Prior to August 2011, Mr. Agrawal served as General Manager, Business Solutions from November 2010, and as Senior Vice President of Finance for Business Units from August 2010 to November 2010. Previously, Mr. Agrawal served as Senior Vice President of Finance of the Company's Europe, Middle East, and Africa and Asia Pacific regions from July 2008 to August 2010, and as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Western Union from June 2006 to May 2008. Mr. Agrawal joined Western Union in 2006. Prior to that time, Mr. Agrawal served as Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations at Deluxe Corporation, and worked at General Mills, Inc., Chrysler Corporation, and General Motors Corporation.Odilon Almeida is our Executive Vice President and President, Americas and European Union (from January 2014). From January 2013 through December 2013, Mr. Almeida was Senior Vice President and President for the Americas region for Western Union. Mr. Almeida joined Western Union in 2002 and has held roles of increasing responsibility, including Regional Vice President, Southern Cone, Americas from December 2002 to December 2006; Regional Vice President and Managing Director, South America region from January 2007 to November 2007; Senior Vice President and Managing Director, South America region from December 2007 to November 2010; and Senior Vice President and Managing Director for the Latin America and Caribbean region from December 2010 to December 2012. Prior to joining Western Union, Mr. Almeida worked at FleetBoston Financial, The Coca-Cola Company and Colgate-Palmolive in Brazil, Canada, Mexico and the United States. Mr. Almeida is a director of Millicom International Cellular S.A.21Table of ContentsElizabeth G. Chambers is our Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy and Product Officer. Prior to taking this position in November 2015, Ms. Chambers was Chief Marketing and Business Development Officer at the international law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer from March 2011 to June 2015. Ms. Chambers served as Chief Marketing Officer of retail and commercial banking and Barclaycard at Barclays from June 2006 to November 2010, where she also led Barclaycard’s co-branded credit card issuing business in the United Kingdom for three years. Prior to joining Barclays, Ms. Chambers held a variety of strategy, marketing and new business development roles at Bingham McCutchen LLP from 2004 to 2006, Bank of America from 2002 to 2004 and the Reader’s Digest Association from 1998 to 2002. Earlier in her career, Ms. Chambers was a Partner in the Financial Institutions and Organization practices at McKinsey & Company. Ms. Chambers started her career as a financial analyst with Morgan Stanley & Co.John R. Dye is our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to taking this position in November 2011, Mr. Dye was Senior Vice President, Interim General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("FHLMC") from July 2011. From July 2007 to July 2011, Mr. Dye served as Senior Vice President, Principal Deputy General Counsel Corporate Affairs, of FHLMC. Prior to joining FHLMC, Mr. Dye served as Associate General Counsel at Citigroup Inc. from August 1999 to July 2007, and as Senior Vice President and Senior Counsel at Salomon Smith Barney from 1994 to 1999. Prior to that time, Mr. Dye was an attorney at the law firm of Brown & Wood. Mr. Dye is a member of the Colorado State Banking Board. Mr. Dye is also Chairman of the Board of the Western Union Foundation.Jean Claude Farah is our Executive Vice President and President, Middle East, Africa, APAC, Eastern Europe and CIS (from December 2013). From March 2009 to December 2013, Mr. Farah served as Senior Vice President for the Middle East and Africa region at Western Union. Mr. Farah joined Western Union in 1999 as Marketing Manager, Middle East & North Africa. He has held a variety of progressively responsible positions with the company, including Regional Director from March 2003 to June 2005, Regional Vice President from June 2005 to March 2009 and Senior Vice President for the Middle East, Pakistan and Afghanistan region. Mr. Farah started his career in 1995 with Renault SA. Prior to joining Western Union, he was Area Manager for Orangina Pernod Ricard.Diane Scott is our Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer (from April 2011). From December 2012 to March 2014, Ms. Scott was also our Chief Product Officer. In addition, from August 2011 to December 2012, Ms. Scott served as President, Western Union Ventures. Prior to April 2011, Ms. Scott was Senior Vice President, Marketing, Americas since March 2009. From March 2008 to March 2009, Ms. Scott served as Vice President, Marketing Services, and General Manager, Domestic Money Transfer. From March 2007 to March 2008, Ms. Scott served as Vice President, Domestic Money Transfer and Marketing Services, and from January 2005 to March 2007, she served as Vice President and General Manager, Domestic Money Transfer. Ms. Scott joined Western Union in 2001. Prior to joining Western Union, Ms. Scott held marketing positions with Izodia plc, US West Communications Inc., and various advertising agencies. Ms. Scott will separate from the Company on March 15, 2016 and will be eligible for benefits under the Company’s Severance/Change in Control Policy (Executive Committee Level).J. David Thompson is our Executive Vice President, Global Operations (from November 2012) and Chief Information Officer (from April 2012). Prior to April 2012, Mr. Thompson was Group President, Services & Support and Global CIO of Symantec Corporation since January 2008. From February 2006 to January 2008, Mr. Thompson served as Symantec's Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer. Prior to joining Symantec, Mr. Thompson was Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer for Oracle Corporation from January 2005 to January 2006. From August 1995 to January 2005, he was Vice President of Services and Chief Information Officer at PeopleSoft, Inc. Mr. Thompson is a director of CoreSite Realty Corporation.Richard L. Williams is our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer (from October 2013). Mr. Williams previously served as Interim Chief Human Resources Officer from March 2013 to October 2013 and as Senior Vice President, Human Resources - Global Consumer Financial Services from June 2011 to October 2013. Mr. Williams joined Western Union in November 2009 as the Vice President of Human Resources for the Americas and Global Cards. Before joining Western Union, Mr. Williams worked for Fullerton Financial Holdings (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Temasek Holdings) as its Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates from September 2007 to October 2009. Previously, Mr. Williams spent 17 years (May 1998 to August 2007 and August 1989 to February 1997) with American Express Company.  22Table of ContentsITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORSThere are many factors that affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risks described below. Such risks are grouped according to:•Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry; •Risks Related to Our Regulatory and Litigation Environment; and •Risks Related to the Spin-Off. You should carefully consider all of these risks.Risks Relating to Our Business and IndustryGlobal economic downturns or slower growth or declines in the money transfer, payment service, and other markets in which we operate, including downturns or declines related to interruptions in migration patterns, and difficult conditions in global financial markets and financial market disruptions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.The global economy has experienced in recent years, and may experience, downturns, volatility and disruption, and we face certain risks relating to such events, including:•Demand for our services could soften, including due to low consumer confidence, high unemployment, or reduced global trade.•Our Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer business relies in large part on migration, which brings workers to countries with greater economic opportunities than those available in their native countries. A significant portion of money transfers are sent by international migrants. Migration is affected by (among other factors) overall economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities, changes in immigration laws, and political or other events (such as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. Changes to these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our cash management strategies, including the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries ("Cash Management Strategies").•Many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly than other industries. Reduced job opportunities, especially in retail, healthcare, hospitality, and construction, or overall weakness in the world’s economies could adversely affect the number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. If general market softness in the economies of countries important to migrant workers occurs, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, if our consumer transactions decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak or deteriorating economic conditions, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our Cash Management Strategies may be adversely affected. •Our agents or clients could experience reduced sales or business as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions. As a result, our agents could reduce their numbers of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. Businesses using our services may make fewer cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn. 23Table of Contents•Our Business Solutions business is heavily dependent on global trade. A downturn in global trade or the failure of long-term import growth rates to return to historic levels could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our Cash Management Strategies. Additionally, as customer hedging activity in our Business Solutions business generally varies with currency volatility, we have experienced and may experience in the future lower foreign exchange revenues in periods of lower currency volatility.•Our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and businesses could impact us. For more information on this risk, see risk factor, "We face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows."•The market value of the securities in our investment portfolio may substantially decline. The impact of that decline in value may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations.•The counterparties to the derivative financial instruments that we use to reduce our exposure to various market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates, may fail to honor their obligations, which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. This includes the exposure generated by the Business Solutions business, where we write derivative contracts to our customers as part of our cross-currency payments business, and we typically hedge the net exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. That failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. •We may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it becomes due or we may have to refinance on unfavorable terms, which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends, and other purposes.•Our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial paper program. If any of the banks participating in our credit facility fails to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial paper program could be adversely affected.•The third-party service providers on whom we depend may experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair their ability to provide services to us and have a potential impact on our own business. The impact of a change or temporary stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.•Banks upon which we rely to conduct our business could fail or be unable to satisfy their obligations to us. This could lead to our inability to access funds and/or credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business.•Insurers we utilize to mitigate our exposures to litigation and other risks may be unable to or refuse to satisfy their obligations to us, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. •If market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience difficulty in accessing capital on favorable terms and our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely impacted.24Table of ContentsWe face competition from global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, United States and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of service providers, including electronic, mobile and Internet-based services, and from digital currencies and related protocols, and other innovations in technology and business models. Our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in the industry. Money transfer and business payments are highly competitive industries which include service providers from a variety of financial and non-financial business groups. Our competitors include consumer money transfer companies, banks, credit unions, card associations, web-based services, mobile money transfer services, payment processors, card-based payments providers such as issuers of e-money, travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems, automated teller machine providers and operators, phone payment systems (including mobile phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers, mail and courier services, currency exchanges, and digital currencies. These services are differentiated by features and functionalities such as brand recognition, customer service, trust and reliability, distribution network and channel options, convenience, price, speed, variety of payment methods, service offerings and innovation. Distribution network and channel options, such as our electronic channels, which include online, account based and mobile money transfer, have been and may continue to be impacted by increased competition, including from new competitors and the consolidation of competitors and the expansion of their services, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Our future growth depends on our ability to compete effectively in money transfer and business payments. For example, if we fail to price our services appropriately, consumers may not use our services, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, we have historically implemented and will likely continue to implement price reductions from time to time in response to competition and other factors. Price reductions generally reduce margins and adversely affect financial results in the short term and may also adversely affect financial results in the long term if transaction volumes do not increase sufficiently. Further, failure to compete on service differentiation and service quality could significantly affect our future growth potential and results of operations. As noted below under risk factor "Risks associated with operations outside the United States and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows," many of our agents outside the United States are national post offices. These entities are usually governmental organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money transfer businesses. International postal organizations could agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves. Due to the size of these organizations and the number of locations they have, any such network could represent significant competition to us. If customer confidence in our business or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally deteriorates, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected.Our business is built on customer confidence in our brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer and payment services. Erosion in customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers as a means to transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which would in turn adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and our Cash Management Strategies.A number of factors could adversely affect customer confidence in our business, or in consumer money transfer and payment service providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. These factors include:•changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or regulator or judicial interpretation thereof that have the effect of making it more difficult or less desirable to transfer money using consumer money transfer and payment service providers, including additional customer due diligence, identification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements;•the quality of our services and our customer experience, and our ability to meet evolving consumer needs and preferences, including customer preferences related to our digital services, which include our westernunion.com and mobile money transfer services;25Table of Contents•failure of our agents or their subagents to deliver services in accordance with our requirements;•reputational concerns resulting from actual or perceived events, including those related to fraud or consumer protection;•actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere with our ability to transfer consumers' money reliably, for example, attempts to seize money transfer funds, or limit our ability to or prohibit us from transferring money in certain corridors;•federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those that require us to provide consumer or transaction data pursuant to our settlement agreement with the State of Arizona and other requirements or to a greater extent than is currently required;•any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or disruptions in our workforce; and•any breach of our computer systems or other data storage facilities resulting in a compromise of personal data.Many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. Consumer advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection, enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. If consumer advocacy groups are able to generate widespread support for actions that are detrimental to our business, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected.Our ability to adopt new technology and develop and gain market acceptance of new and enhanced products and services in response to changing industry and regulatory standards and evolving customer needs poses a challenge to our business.Our industry is subject to rapid and significant technological changes, with the constant introduction of new and enhanced products and services and evolving industry and regulatory standards and consumer needs and preferences. Our ability to enhance our current products and services and introduce new products and services that address these changes has a significant impact on our ability to be successful. We actively seek to respond in a timely manner to changes in customer (both consumer and business) needs and preferences, technology advances and new and enhanced products and services such as technology-based money transfer and Business Solutions payments services, including Internet, phone-based and other mobile money transfer services. Failure to respond well to these challenges on a timely basis could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Further, even if we respond well to these challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of these alternative, more technology-reliant means of money transfer and electronic payment solutions may be less advantageous to us than the model offered by our traditional cash/agent model or our current electronic money transfer model.26Table of ContentsRisks associated with operations outside the United States and foreign currencies could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.  A substantial portion of our revenue is generated in currencies other than the United States dollar. As a result, we are subject to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues and net monetary assets denominated in foreign currencies. For example, a considerable portion of our revenue is generated in the euro. If we are unable to or elect not to hedge our foreign exchange exposure to the euro against a significant devaluation, the value of our euro-denominated revenue, operating profit and net monetary assets and liabilities would be correspondingly reduced when translated into United States dollars for inclusion in our financial statements. Moreover, if we engage in foreign currency hedging activities related to our revenues, such transactions may help to mitigate the adverse financial effects of an appreciation in the United States dollar relative to other currencies. In an environment of a declining United States dollar relative to other currencies, such hedging transactions could have the effect of limiting the translation benefits on our reported financial results. In addition, our Business Solutions business provides currency conversion and, in certain countries, foreign exchange hedging services to its customers, further exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk. In order to help mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts. However, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks related to fluctuating foreign currency rates.  We operate in almost all developing markets throughout the world. In many of these markets, our foreign currency exposure is limited because most transactions are receive transactions and we currently reimburse most of our agents in either United States dollars or euros for the payment of these transactions. However, in certain of these developing markets we generate revenue from send transactions. Our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations in those markets is increased as these fluctuations impact our revenues and operating profits. Typically, in these markets the cost of hedging activities is prohibitive.We have additional foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange risk management requirements due to the nature of our Business Solutions business. The majority of this business' revenue is from exchanges of currency at spot rates, which enable customers to make cross-currency payments. In certain countries, this business also writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our customers. The duration of these derivative contracts at inception is generally less than one year. The credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. Business Solutions aggregates its foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts, including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting contracts with established financial institution counterparties. If we are unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. 27Table of Contents A substantial portion of our revenue is generated outside of the United States. Repatriating foreign earnings to the United States would, in many cases, result in significant tax obligations because most of these earnings have been taxed at relatively low foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax rate in the United States. We utilize a variety of planning and financial strategies to help ensure that our worldwide cash is available where needed, including decisions related to the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries. Changes in the amounts, timing, and manner by which cash is repatriated (or deemed repatriated) or otherwise made available from our international subsidiaries, including changes arising from new legal or tax rules, disagreements with legal or tax authorities concerning existing rules that are ultimately resolved in their favor, or changes in our operations or business, could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows including our ability to pay future dividends or make share repurchases. For further discussion regarding the risk that our future effective tax rates could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally, see risk factor "Changes in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense" below.Money transfers and payments to, from, within, or between countries may be limited or prohibited by law. At times in the past, we have been required to cease operations in particular countries due to political uncertainties or government restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the United States. Occasionally agents or their subagents have been required by their regulators to cease offering our services, see risk factor "Regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity" below. Additionally, economic or political instability or natural disasters may make money transfers to, from, within, or between particular countries difficult or impossible, such as when banks are closed, when currency devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent locations unsafe. These risks could negatively impact our ability to offer our services, to make payments to or receive payments from international agents or our subsidiaries or our ability to recoup funds that have been advanced to international agents or are held by our subsidiaries, and as a result could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, the general state of telecommunications and infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not present in our operations in the United States and other more developed countries.Many of our agents outside the United States are post offices, which are usually owned and operated by national governments. These governments may decide to change the terms under which they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial services. For example, governments may decide to separate financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate the creation or privatization of a "post bank," which could result in the loss of agent locations, or they may require multiple service providers in their network. These changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to distribute or offer our services in countries that are material to our business.28Table of ContentsBreaches of our information security policies or safeguards could adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We collect, transfer and retain consumer, business, employee and agent data as part of our business. These activities are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions, see risk factor "Current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition" below. The requirements imposed by these laws and regulations, which often differ materially among the many jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal information and prevent that information from being inappropriately used or disclosed. We have developed and maintain technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with applicable legal requirements. However, despite those safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our systems or the systems of our business partners and service providers and improperly obtain or disclose data about our consumers, business customers, agents, subagents, and/or employees. Further, because a significant and increasing amount of our data is collected and stored by third parties, including providers of cloud-based software services, it is possible that a third party could intentionally or inadvertently disclose personal data in violation of law. Also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to our employees, business customers, consumers, subagents, agents and potential employees to third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for other reasons. It is possible that a vendor could intentionally or inadvertently disclose such data. Additionally, transactions undertaken through our mobile services may create different risks of fraud, hacking, and other deceptive practices. Any data breach resulting in a compromise of consumer, business, employee or agent data could require us to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement action, including fines, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to litigation, damage our reputation, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Interruptions in our systems, including as a result of cyber attacks, or disruptions in our workforce may have a significant effect on our business.Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer information systems and those of our service providers. Any significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation and result in a loss of business. These systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our service providers. Further, we have been and continue to be the subject of cyber attacks, including distributed denial of service attacks. These attacks are primarily aimed at interrupting our business, exposing us to financial losses, or exploiting information security vulnerabilities. Historically, none of these attacks or breaches has individually or in the aggregate resulted in any material liability to us or any material damage to our reputation, and disruptions related to cybersecurity have not caused any material disruption to the Company's business, although there can be no assurance that a material breach will not occur in the future. Although we have taken steps and made investments to prevent systems disruptions, our measures may not be successful and we may experience system disruptions or other problems in the future. We also may experience software defects, development delays, installation difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability which may not be fully covered by our business interruption insurance. Our data applications may not be sufficient to address technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market conditions or other developments. In addition, any work stoppages or other labor actions by employees, the significant majority of which are located outside the United States, could adversely affect our business.We receive services from third-party vendors that would be difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such services adequately or at all. Cessation of or defects in various services provided to us by third-party vendors could cause temporary disruption to our business.Some services relating to our business, such as software application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of our operating systems, check clearing, and processing of returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which would be difficult to replace quickly. If our third-party vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these services in the future, our business and operations could be adversely affected.29Table of ContentsAcquisitions and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect operating results.We have acquired and may acquire businesses both inside and outside the United States. As of December 31, 2015, we had $3,163.8 million of goodwill comprising approximately 33% of our total assets, including $1,950.1 million of goodwill in our Consumer-to-Consumer reporting unit and $996.0 million of goodwill in our Business Solutions reporting unit. If we or our reporting units do not generate operating cash flows at levels consistent with our expectations, we may be required to write down the goodwill on our balance sheet, which could have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. See the "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" discussion in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, for more detail. In addition to the risk of goodwill impairment, the acquisition and integration of businesses involve a number of other risks. The core risks involve valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex process of integrating the acquired company's people, products and services, technology and other assets in an effort to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the projected synergies of the acquisition). In addition, the need in some cases to improve regulatory compliance standards is another risk associated with acquiring companies, see "Risks Related to Our Regulatory and Litigation Environment" below. Acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks including, for example:•realizing the anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of these acquired businesses;•managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities;•managing multi-jurisdictional operating, tax and financing structures;•integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures;•integrating the acquired technologies into our Company; •complying with regulatory requirements, including those particular to the industry and jurisdiction of the acquired business; •enforcing intellectual property rights in some foreign countries;•entering new markets with the services of the acquired businesses; and•general economic and political conditions, including legal and other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by United States companies in particular.Integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result in the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with an acquisition and the integration of the acquired company's operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.30Table of ContentsWe face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.The vast majority of our Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer and Consumer-to-Business activity is conducted through third-party agents that provide our services to consumers at their retail locations. These agents sell our services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay the proceeds from these transactions to us. As a result, we have credit exposure to our agents. In some countries, our agent networks include superagents that establish subagent relationships; these agents must collect funds from their subagents in order to pay us. We are not insured against credit losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft or fraud. If an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment services on behalf of the consumer.The liquidity of our agents is necessary for our business to remain strong and to continue to provide our services. If our agents fail to settle with us in a timely manner, our liquidity could be affected.From time to time, we have made, and may in the future make, short-term advances and longer term loans to our agents. These advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds payable by us to these agents. However, the failure of these borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a credit risk to us.We are exposed to credit risk in our Business Solutions business relating to: (a) derivatives written by us to our customers and (b) the extension of trade credit when transactions are paid to recipients prior to our receiving cleared funds from the sending customers. The credit risk associated with our derivative contracts increases when foreign currency exchange rates move against our customers, possibly impacting their ability to honor their obligations to deliver currency to us or to maintain appropriate collateral with us. If a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay us, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting position with a financial institution counterparty for the derivatives or may bear financial risk for those receivables where we have offered trade credit. We offer consumers in select countries the ability to transfer money utilizing their bank account or credit or debit card via the Internet and phone. These transactions have experienced and continue to experience a greater risk of fraud and higher fraud losses. Additionally, money transfers funded by ACH, or similar methods, are not preauthorized by the sender's bank and carry the risk that the account may not exist or have sufficient funds to cover the transaction. We apply verification and other tools to help authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. However, these tools are not always successful in protecting us against fraud. As the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent transactions. Issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution channels and may elect to block transactions by their cardholders in these channels with or without notice. We may be subject to additional fees or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain percentage of our transaction volume. Such fees and penalties escalate over time if we do not take effective action to reduce chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, our merchant accounts could be suspended or revoked, which would adversely affect our results of operations.31Table of ContentsIf we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with Western Union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected.Most of our Consumer-to-Consumer revenue is derived through our agent network. Some of our international agents have subagent relationships in which we are not directly involved. If, due to competition or other reasons, agents or their subagents decide to leave our network, or if we are unable to sign new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue and profits may be adversely affected. Agent attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a competitor engaging an agent, an agent's dissatisfaction with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that relationship, an agent's or its subagents' unwillingness or inability to comply with our standards or legal requirements, including those related to compliance with anti-money laundering regulations, anti-fraud measures, or agent registration and monitoring requirements or increased costs or loss of business as a result of difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services. For example, changes to our compliance-related practices as a result of our settlement agreement with the State of Arizona and changes to our business model, primarily related to our Vigo and Orlandi Valuta brands, resulted in the loss of over 7,000 agent locations in Mexico in 2012. In addition, agents may generate fewer transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including increased competition, political unrest, or changes in the economy, and the cost of maintaining agent or subagent locations has increased and may continue to increase because of enhanced compliance efforts. Because an agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours of operation, or cease doing business altogether. Changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enter into or maintain our exclusive arrangements with our current and prospective agents. See risk factor "Regulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity" below. In addition, certain of our agents and subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. The inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the Western Union brand at our agent locations.We rely on our agents' information systems and/or processes to obtain transaction data. If an agent or their subagent loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the information systems of an agent or their subagent, or if an agent or their subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their systems, we may experience reputational and other harm which could result in losses to the Company.In our Consumer-to-Business segment, we provide services for making one-time or recurring payments from consumers to businesses and other organizations, including utilities, auto finance companies, mortgage servicers, financial service providers, government agencies and other businesses. For example, consumers can make payments to over 15,000 businesses through our Consumer-to-Business services. These relationships are a core component of our payments services, and we derive a substantial portion of our Consumer-to-Business revenue through these relationships. In Business Solutions, we facilitate payment and foreign exchange solutions, primarily cross-border, cross-currency transactions, for small and medium size enterprises and other organizations and individuals, and we have relationships with more than 100,000 customers with respect to our payment solutions. Increased regulation and compliance requirements are impacting these businesses by making it more costly for us to provide our services or by making it more cumbersome for businesses or consumers to do business with us. We have also had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships needed to conduct our services due to banks’ policies. If we are unable to maintain our current business or banking relationships or establish new relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, our ability to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.32Table of ContentsChanges in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws or their interpretation, both domestically and internationally. For example, the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development ("OECD") has asked countries around the globe to act to prevent what it refers to as base erosion and profit shifting ("BEPS"). The OECD considers BEPS to refer to tax planning strategies that shift, perhaps artificially, profits across borders to take advantage of differing tax laws and rates among countries. Tax reforms recommended in the BEPS action plan include changes that would impact, among other things, global tax reporting, intercompany transfer pricing arrangements, the definition of taxable permanent establishments, and other legal or financial arrangements that are viewed as causing BEPS. The BEPS action plan was finalized by the OECD on October 5, 2015 and a number of governments, including the European Commission, have already enacted or proposed rules to implement, at least to some degree, changes suggested in the recommendations, while other countries are preparing to do so. Any material change in tax laws or policies, or their interpretation, resulting from these or similar legislative proposals or inquiries could result in a higher effective tax rate on our earnings and have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Our tax returns and positions (including positions regarding jurisdictional authority of foreign governments to impose tax) are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations. We have established contingency reserves for a variety of material, known tax exposures. As of December 31, 2015, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was a liability of $113.1 million, including accrued interest and penalties, net of related items. Our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the issues involved if subject to judicial review. While we believe that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such resolution could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the current period and/or future periods. With respect to these reserves, our income tax expense would include (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e. new information) surrounding a tax issue and (ii) any difference from the Company's tax position as recorded in the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue during the period. Such resolution could increase or decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash flows. For example, in 2011, we reached an agreement with the United States Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") resolving substantially all of the issues related to the restructuring of our international operations in 2003, which resulted in a tax benefit of $204.7 million related to the adjustment of reserves associated with this matter and requires cash payments to the IRS and various state tax authorities of approximately $190 million, plus additional accrued interest, of which $94.1 million has been paid as of December 31, 2015. See the "Capital Resources and Liquidity" discussion in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.The IRS completed its examination of the United States federal consolidated income tax returns of First Data, which include our 2005 and pre-Spin-off 2006 taxable periods and issued its report on October 31, 2012 ("FDC 30-Day Letter"). Furthermore, the IRS completed its examination of our United States federal consolidated income tax returns for the 2006 post-Spin-off period through 2009 and issued its report also on October 31, 2012 ("WU 30-Day Letter"). Both the FDC 30-Day Letter and the WU 30-Day Letter propose tax adjustments affecting us, some of which are agreed and some of which are unagreed. We filed our protest on November 28, 2012 related to the unagreed proposed adjustments with the IRS Appeals Division. Discussions with the IRS concerning these adjustments are ongoing. See Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 10, "Income Taxes" for a further discussion of this matter.33Table of ContentsOur business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies.If our credit ratings are downgraded, or if they are placed under review or revised to have a negative outlook, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected and perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged, which could adversely affect our relationships with our agents, particularly those agents that are financial institutions or post offices, and our banking and other business relationships. In addition, an adverse credit rating by a rating agency, such as a downgrade or negative outlook, could result in regulators imposing additional capital and other requirements on us, including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to pay dividends. Although our credit ratings have been downgraded in the past, we still maintain an investment grade rating. Also, a downgrade below investment grade will increase our interest expense under certain of our notes and any significant downgrade could increase our costs of borrowing money more generally or adversely impact or eliminate our access to the commercial paper market, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from productivity and cost-savings and other related initiatives, which may include decisions to downsize or to transition operating activities from one location to another, and we may experience disruptions in our workforce as a result of those initiatives.We have engaged in actions and activities associated with productivity improvement initiatives and expense reduction measures. We may implement additional initiatives in future periods. While these initiatives are designed to increase productivity and result in cost savings, there can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits will be realized, and the costs to implement such initiatives may be greater than expected. In addition, these initiatives have resulted and will likely result in the loss of personnel, some of whom may support significant systems or operations. Consequently, these initiatives could result in a disruption to our workforce. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, or the costs to implement them are greater than expected, or if the actions result in a disruption to our workforce greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. There can be no guarantee that we will continue to make dividend payments or repurchase stock.For risks associated with our ability to continue to make dividend payments or repurchase shares, please see Part II, Item 5, Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.Our ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights and to defend ourselves against potential intellectual property infringement claims.The Western Union and WU brands, which are protected by trademark registrations in many countries, are material to our Company. The loss of the Western Union or WU trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with the names would harm our business. Similar to the Western Union and WU trademarks, the Vigo, Orlandi Valuta, Speedpay, Pago Fácil, Western Union Payments, Quick Collect, Quick Pay, Quick Cash, Convenience Pay, Western Union Business Solutions and other trademarks and service marks are also important to our Company and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our business.Our intellectual property rights are an important element in the value of our business. Our failure to take appropriate actions against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.The laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Adverse determinations in judicial or administrative proceedings in the United States or in foreign countries could impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition results of operations, and cash flows.34Table of ContentsWe own patents and patent applications covering various aspects of our processes and services. We have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims alleging that our technology or business methods infringe intellectual property rights of others, both inside and outside the United States. Unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us to change how we deliver a service, result in significant financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Material changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we hold may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.As of December 31, 2015, we held $1.2 billion in investment securities, the substantial majority of which are state and municipal debt securities. The majority of this money represents the principal of money orders issued by us to consumers primarily in the United States and money transfers sent by consumers. We regularly monitor our credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by investing in highly-rated securities and by diversifying our investments. Despite those measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in interest rates. Any such decline in value may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.The trust holding the assets of our pension plan has assets totaling approximately $276.7 million as of December 31, 2015. The fair value of these assets held in the trust are compared to the plan's projected benefit obligation of $346.0 million to determine the pension liability of $69.3 million recorded within "Other liabilities" in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2015. We attempt to mitigate risk through diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and periodic asset and liability studies. Despite these measures, it is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the future due to any number of factors, including general market conditions and credit issues. Such declines could have an impact on the funded status of our pension plan and future funding requirements.We have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our operations.As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately $3.2 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future.Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: •limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders or to repurchase stock consistent with our historical practices;•increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions;•limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry;•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes.There would be adverse tax consequences associated with using certain earnings generated outside the United States to pay the interest and principal on our indebtedness. Accordingly, this portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal circumstances to service our debt obligations.35Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our Regulatory and Litigation EnvironmentAs described under Part I, Item 1, Business, our business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations enacted by the United States federal government, each of the states (including licensing requirements), many localities and many other countries and jurisdictions. Laws and regulations to which we are subject include those related to: financial services, consumer disclosure and consumer protection, currency controls, money transfer and payment instrument licensing, payment services, credit and debit cards, electronic payments, foreign exchange hedging services and the sale of spot, forward and option currency contracts, unclaimed property, the regulation of competition, consumer privacy, data protection and information security. The failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with any such laws or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and could seriously damage our reputation and brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs.Our business is subject to a wide range and increasing number of laws and regulations. Liabilities or loss of business resulting from a failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with laws and regulations and regulatory or judicial interpretations thereof, including laws and regulations designed to protect consumers, or detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and other illicit activity, and increased costs or loss of business associated with compliance with those laws and regulations has had and we expect will continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Our services are subject to increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud, and other illicit activity. The interpretation of those requirements by judges, regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often quickly and with little notice. Economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the United States Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control prohibit or restrict transactions to or from or dealings with or involving specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with certain individuals and entities such as narcotics traffickers, terrorists and terrorist organizations. As United States federal and state as well as foreign legislative and regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these requirements will continue to increase, perhaps substantially, or our compliance will make it more difficult or less desirable for consumers and others to use our services or for us to contract with certain intermediaries, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating profit. For example, we made significant additional investments in 2015 in our compliance programs based on the rapidly evolving environment and our internal reviews of the increasingly complex and demanding global regulatory requirements. These additional investments relate to enhancing our compliance capabilities, including our consumer protection efforts. Further, failure by Western Union, our agents, or their subagents (agents and subagents are third parties, over whom Western Union has limited legal and practical control), and certain service providers to comply with any of these requirements or their interpretation could result in the suspension or revocation of a license or registration required to provide money transfer, payment or foreign exchange services, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, changes to our business model, loss of consumer confidence, the seizure of our assets, and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines and restrictions on our ability to offer services.We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") in the United States and similar laws in other countries, such as the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Some of these laws, such as the Bribery Act, also prohibit improper payments between commercial enterprises. Because our services are offered in virtually every country of the world, we face significant risks associated with our obligations under the FCPA, the Bribery Act, and other national anti-corruption laws. Any determination that we have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.36Table of ContentsIn addition, our United States business is subject to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions of the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended (collectively, the "BSA"), and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the United States Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ("FinCEN"). We have subsidiaries in Brazil and Austria that are subject to banking regulations. These subsidiaries are also subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the New York Department of Financial Services. Under the Payment Services Directive ("PSD") in the European Union ("EU"), which became effective in late 2009, and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other jurisdictions, we have and will increasingly become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping, and anti-money laundering regulations, and agent oversight and monitoring requirements, which have increased and will continue to increase our costs. These laws could also increase competition in some or all of our areas of service. The remittance industry, including Western Union, has come under increasing scrutiny from government regulators and others in connection with its ability to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to defraud others. While we believe our fraud prevention efforts comply with applicable law, the ingenuity of criminal fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud by consumers, make the prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging problem. Our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds and increased costs related to the implementation of enhanced anti-fraud measures, or a change in fraud prevention laws or their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Further, any determination that our agents or their subagents have violated laws and regulations could seriously damage our reputation and brands, resulting in diminished revenue and profit and increased operating costs. In some cases, we could be liable for the failure of our agents or their subagents to comply with laws which also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The changes associated with the PSD, The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") and similar legislation enacted or proposed in other countries have resulted and will likely continue to result in increased costs to comply with the new requirements, and in the event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additional countries may adopt similar legislation.For example, in the EU, Western Union is responsible for the compliance of our agents and their subagents with the PSD when they are acting on behalf of one of our payments institution subsidiaries. The majority of our EU activity is managed through our Irish payment institution subsidiary, which is regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland. Thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against Western Union because of actions by its agents or their subagents and the costs to monitor our agents or their subagents in those areas has increased. The regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents and their subagents. 37Table of ContentsOur fees, profit margins and/or foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of regulatory initiatives and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation and industry practices and standards that are either industry wide or specifically targeted at our Company. The evolving regulatory environment, including increased fees or taxes, regulatory initiatives, and changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, industry practices and standards imposed by state, federal or foreign governments and expectations regarding our compliance efforts, is impacting the manner in which we operate our business, may change the competitive landscape and is expected to continue to adversely affect our financial results. New and proposed legislation relating to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world has and may continue to affect the manner in which we provide our services, see risk factor "The Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the regulations required by that Act and the actions of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows." Recently proposed and enacted legislation related to financial services providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state level in the United States has subjected and may continue to subject us to additional regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures and remedies, including refunds to consumers, or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services. If governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our right to set fees and/or foreign exchange spreads, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in regulatory expectations, interpretations or practices could increase the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, fines and penalties.For example, our business has been affected and is currently being affected by on-going changes to our compliance procedures related to our settlement agreement with the State of Arizona. See risk factor "Western Union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators." Due to regulatory initiatives, we have changed our compliance related practices and business model along the United States and Mexico border, including in the southwestern region of the United States. Such changes have had, and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our revenue, profit margins, and business operations related to our United States to Mexico and United States to Latin America and the Caribbean corridors. In addition, one state and one United States territory have passed laws imposing a fee on certain money transfer transactions, and certain other states have proposed similar legislation. Several foreign countries have enacted or proposed rules imposing taxes or fees on certain money transfer transactions, as well. Although money transfer services themselves are not generally subject to sales tax elsewhere in the United States, the current budget shortfalls in many jurisdictions, combined with continued federal inaction on comprehensive immigration reform, may lead other states or localities to impose similar taxes or fees. Similar circumstances in foreign countries have invoked and could continue to invoke the imposition of sales, service or similar taxes on money transfer services. A tax or fee exclusively on money transfer services like Western Union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to other means of remittance which are not subject to the same taxes or fees. Other examples of changes to our financial environment include the possibility of regulatory initiatives that focus on lowering international remittance costs. Such initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Regulators around the world look at each other's approaches to the regulation of the payments and other industries. Consequently, a development in any one country, state or region may influence regulatory approaches in other countries, states or regions. Similarly, new laws and regulations in a country, state or region involving one service may cause lawmakers there to extend the regulations to another service. As a result, the risks created by any one new law or regulation are magnified by the potential they have to be replicated, affecting our business in another place or involving another service. Conversely, if widely varying regulations come into existence worldwide, we may have difficulty adjusting our services, fees and other important aspects of our business, with the same effect. Either of these eventualities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 38Table of ContentsRegulatory initiatives and changes in laws, regulations and industry practices and standards affecting us, our agents or their subagents, or the banks with which we or our agents maintain bank accounts needed to provide our services could require changes in our business model and increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.Our agents and their subagents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements, which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject to change. Material changes in the regulatory requirements for offering money transfer services, including with respect to anti-money laundering requirements, fraud prevention, consumer protection, customer due diligence, agent registration, or increased requirements to monitor our agents or their subagents in a jurisdiction important to our business have meant and could continue to mean increased costs and/or operational demands on our agents and their subagents, which have resulted and could continue to result in their attrition, a decrease in the number of locations at which money transfer services are offered, an increase in the commissions paid to agents and their subagents to compensate for their increased costs, and other negative consequences. Our regulatory status and the regulatory status of our agents could affect our and their ability to offer our services. For example, we and our agents rely on bank accounts to provide our Consumer-to-Consumer money transfer services. We also rely on bank accounts to provide our payment services. We and our agents are considered Money Service Businesses, or "MSBs," under the BSA, including our Business Solutions operations. An increasing number of banks view MSBs, as a class, as higher risk customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs. Furthermore, we and some of our agents have had difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to the banks' policies. If we or a significant number of our agents are unable to maintain existing or establish new banking relationships, or if we or these agents face higher fees to maintain or establish new bank accounts, our ability and the ability of our agents to continue to offer our services may be adversely impacted, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.The types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as our agents vary significantly from one country to another. Changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of providing such services, both by us and our agents. For example, a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly the cost of providing our services in many countries where that requirement does not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services in an affected country. Further, any changes in law that would require us to provide money transfer services directly to consumers as opposed to through an agent network (which would effectively change our business model) or that would prohibit or impede the use of subagents could significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our services, and/or the cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. Changes mandated by laws which make Western Union responsible for acts of its agents while they are providing the Western Union money transfer service increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs to monitor our agents' performance.39Table of ContentsAlthough most of our Orlandi Valuta and Vigo branded agents also offer money transfer services of our competitors, many of our Western Union branded agents have agreed to offer only our money transfer services. While we expect to continue signing certain agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that these agreements are valid and enforceable, changes in laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future. Various jurisdictions, including the European Union and some of its member countries, continue to increase their focus on agent agreements. In addition, over the past several years, several countries in Eastern Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent States, Africa and South Asia, including India, have promulgated laws or regulations, or authorities in these countries have issued orders, which effectively prohibit payment service providers, such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive arrangements with agents in those countries. Certain institutions, non-governmental organizations and others are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money transfer agent agreements. Advocates for laws prohibiting or limiting exclusive agreements continue to push for enactment of similar laws in other jurisdictions. In addition to legal challenges, certain of our agents and their subagents have refused to enter into exclusive arrangements. See risk factor "If we are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place, including due to increased costs or loss of business as a result of increased compliance requirements or difficulty for us, our agents or their subagents in establishing or maintaining relationships with banks needed to conduct our services, or if our agents or their subagents fail to comply with Western Union business and technology standards and contract requirements, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows would be adversely affected" above. The inability to enter into exclusive arrangements or to maintain our exclusive rights in agent contracts in certain situations could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from the goodwill associated with the Western Union brand at our agent locations.In addition to legal or regulatory restrictions discussed in the "Capital Resources and Liquidity" section in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, some jurisdictions use tangible net worth and other financial strength guidelines to evaluate financial position. If our regulated subsidiaries do not abide by these guidelines, they may be subject to heightened review by these jurisdictions, and the jurisdictions may be more likely to impose new formal financial strength requirements. Additional financial strength requirements imposed on our regulated subsidiaries or significant changes in the regulatory environment for money transfer providers could impact our primary source of liquidity.Western Union is the subject of governmental investigations and consent agreements with or enforcement actions by regulators.State of Arizona Settlement AgreementOn February 11, 2010, Western Union Financial Services, Inc. ("WUFSI"), a subsidiary of the Company, signed a settlement agreement ("Southwest Border Agreement"), which resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims with the State of Arizona (the "State") and required the Company to fund a multi-state not-for-profit organization promoting safety and security along the United States and Mexico border, in which California, Texas and New Mexico are participating with Arizona. As part of the Southwest Border Agreement, the Company has made and expects to make certain investments in its compliance programs along the United States and Mexico border and a monitor (the "Monitor") has been engaged for those programs. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the Southwest Border Agreement. The Monitor has made a number of recommendations related to the Company's compliance programs, which we are implementing, including programs related to our Business Solutions segment.40Table of ContentsOn January 31, 2014, the Southwest Border Agreement was amended to extend its term until December 31, 2017 (the "Amendment"). The Amendment imposes additional obligations on the Company and WUFSI in connection with WUFSI’s anti-money laundering ("AML") compliance programs and cooperation with law enforcement. In particular, the Amendment requires WUFSI to continue implementing the primary and secondary recommendations made by the Monitor appointed pursuant to the Southwest Border Agreement related to WUFSI’s AML compliance program, and includes, among other things, timeframes for implementing such primary and secondary recommendations. Under the Amendment, the Monitor could make additional primary recommendations until January 1, 2015 and may make additional secondary recommendations until January 31, 2017. After these dates, the Monitor may only make additional primary or secondary recommendations, as applicable, that meet certain requirements as set forth in the Amendment. The Monitor has made more than 70 primary recommendations and groups of primary recommendations. Primary recommendations may also be re-classified as secondary recommendations.The changes in WUFSI’s AML program required by the Southwest Border Agreement, including the Amendment, and the Monitor’s recommendations have had, and will continue to have, adverse effects on the Company’s business, including additional costs. Additionally, and as described in detail in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 5, "Commitments and Contingencies," if WUFSI is not able to implement a successful AML compliance program along the U.S. and Mexico border or timely implement the Monitor’s recommendations, each as determined by the Monitor, the State may pursue remedies under the Southwest Border Agreement and Amendment, including assessment of fines and civil and criminal actions. The Company submitted all of the primary recommendations to the Monitor for review prior to an October 31, 2015 deadline and is currently in the process of demonstrating its compliance with the primary recommendations, but is unable to predict whether the Monitor will conclude that WUFSI has implemented an effective AML compliance program and whether the Monitor's primary and secondary recommendations have been successfully implemented. Should the State pursue remedies under the Southwest Border Agreement, the Company could face significant fines and actions which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Other MattersAs further described under Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, the Company is the subject of ongoing investigations, including by (1) various United States Attorneys' offices; (2) various state attorneys general; and (3) the United States Federal Trade Commission (the "FTC"). Due to the stage and nature of these continuing investigations, the Company is unable to predict their outcome, or the possible loss or range of loss, if any, which could be associated with the resolution of any possible criminal charges or civil claims that may be brought against the Company. Additionally, as it has done in recent years, the Company may enter into consent agreements with governmental authorities (federal, state, local, and foreign) relating to these or other regulatory matters that could require us to make various payments and to take certain measures to enhance our compliance with applicable legal requirements. Should governmental authorities determine to bring criminal charges or civil claims, or if the Company enters into additional consent decrees with governmental authorities, the Company's business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be adversely affected. Further, the Company regularly receives subpoenas and other requests for documents and information from governmental authorities concerning our business, current or former agents, customers or other third parties. We cooperate with such subpoenas and requests in the ordinary course of our business. However, it is possible that, during the course of any investigation or review by such governmental authorities, allegations of misconduct or wrongdoing could arise regarding Western Union, its employees, current or former agents, customers or other third parties, which could lead to investigations or enforcement actions against us.41Table of ContentsThe Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the regulations required by that Act and the actions of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and similar legislation and regulations enacted by other government authorities, could adversely affect us and the scope of our activities, and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in the United States on July 21, 2010, calls for significant structural reforms and new substantive regulation across the financial services industry. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, whose purpose is to implement, examine for compliance with and enforce federal consumer protection laws governing financial products and services, including money transfer services. The CFPB has created additional regulatory obligations for us and has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, including for matters related to unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts and practices ("UDAAP"). The CFPB's regulations implementing the remittance provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have affected our business in a variety of areas. These include: a requirement to provide almost all consumers sending funds internationally from the United States enhanced, written, pre-transaction disclosures, including the disclosure of fees, foreign exchange rates and taxes, an obligation to resolve various errors, including certain errors that may be outside our control, and an obligation to cancel transactions that have not been completed at a consumer's request. In addition, these regulations impose responsibility on us for any related compliance failures of our agents. These requirements have changed the way we operate our business and along with other potential changes under CFPB regulations could adversely affect our operations and financial results and change the way we operate our business. The Dodd-Frank Act and interpretations and actions by the CFPB could also have a significant impact on us by, for example, requiring us to limit or change our business practices, limiting our ability to pursue business opportunities, requiring us to invest valuable management time and resources in compliance efforts, imposing additional costs on us, delaying our ability to respond to marketplace changes, requiring us to alter our products and services in a manner that would make our products less attractive to consumers and impair our ability to offer them profitably, or requiring us to make other changes that could adversely affect our business. The CFPB has broad authority to enforce consumer protection laws. The CFPB has a large staff and budget, which is not subject to Congressional appropriation, and has broad authority with respect to our money transfer service and related business. It is authorized to collect fines and provide consumer restitution in the event of violations, engage in consumer financial education, track and solicit consumer complaints, request data and promote the availability of financial services to underserved consumers and communities. For example, in July 2015, Paymap, Inc. ("Paymap"), one of our subsidiaries, and the CFPB reached a settlement agreement regarding Paymap’s marketing of its Equity Accelerator service. Under the terms of the agreement, Paymap agreed to pay approximately $33.4 million in restitution and a $5.0 million civil monetary penalty and agreed to ensure that its marketing practices and materials for the Equity Accelerator Program comply with the Consumer Financial Protection Act's prohibition against UDAAP. In addition, the CFPB may adopt other regulations governing consumer financial services, including regulations defining UDAAP, and new model disclosures. The CFPB's authority to change regulations adopted in the past by other regulators, or to rescind or ignore past regulatory guidance, could increase our compliance costs and litigation exposure. Our litigation exposure may also be increased by the CFPB's authority to limit or ban pre-dispute arbitration clauses. In December 2013, the CFPB released the preliminary results of its arbitration study, which is widely viewed as the first step in an effort to restrict the use of such clauses in consumer financial contracts.We have been and will continue to be subject to examination by the CFPB, which in September 2014 finalized a rule defining "larger participants of a market for other consumer financial products or services" as including companies, such as Western Union, that make at least one million aggregate annual international money transfers. The CFPB has the authority to examine and supervise us and our larger competitors, which will involve providing reports to the CFPB. Based on examination material that has been published by the CFPB, we expect the CFPB to conduct rigorous examinations, which could result in further changes to our operating procedures. The CFPB has used information gained in examinations as the basis for enforcement actions resulting in settlements involving monetary penalties and other remedies. The effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and the CFPB on our business and operations has been and will continue to be significant and the application of the Dodd-Frank Act's implementing regulations to our business may differ from the application to certain of our competitors, including banks. Further, and in addition to our own compliance costs, implementation of requirements under Dodd-Frank could impact our business relationships with financial institution customers who outsource processing of consumer transactions to our Business Solutions segment. These financial institutions may determine that the compliance costs associated with providing consumer services are too burdensome and consequently may limit or discontinue offering such services.42Table of ContentsRules adopted under the Dodd-Frank Act by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as well as the provisions of the European Market Infrastructure Regulation and its technical standards, which are directly applicable in the member states of the European Union, have subjected most of our foreign exchange hedging transactions, including certain intercompany hedging transactions, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future, and certain of the foreign exchange derivative contracts we offer as part of our Business Solutions segment, to reporting, recordkeeping, and other requirements. Additionally, certain of the corporate interest rate hedging transactions we may enter into in the future may be subject to centralized clearing and margin requirements and certain of our other transactions may become so in the future. Our implementation of these requirements has resulted, and will continue to result, in additional costs to our business. Furthermore, our failure to implement these requirements correctly could result in fines and other sanctions, as well as necessitate a temporary or permanent cessation to some or all of our derivative related activities. Any such fines, sanctions or limitations on our business could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Additionally, the regulatory regimes for derivatives in the United States and European Union, such as under the Dodd-Frank Act and the European Markets in Financial Instruments Directive known as "MiFID II," are continuing to evolve and changes to such regimes, our designation under such regimes, or the implementation of new rules under such regimes, such as future registration requirements and increased regulation of forward contracts, may result in additional costs to our business. Other jurisdictions outside of the United States and the European Union are considering, have implemented, or are implementing regulations similar to those described above and these will result in greater costs to us as well.Western Union is the subject of litigation, including purported class action litigation, which could result in material settlements, fines or penalties.As a company that provides global financial services primarily to consumers, we are subject to litigation, including purported class action litigation, and regulatory actions alleging violations of consumer protection, anti-money laundering, securities laws and other laws. We also are subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual transactions. We may not be successful in defending ourselves in these matters, and such failure may result in substantial fines, damages and expenses, revocation of required licenses or other limitations on our ability to conduct business. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Further, we believe increasingly strict legal and regulatory requirements and increased regulatory investigations and enforcement are likely to continue to result in changes to our business, as well as increased costs, supervision and examination for both ourselves and our agents and subagents. These developments in turn may result in additional litigation or other actions. For more information please see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings and Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Note 5, "Commitments and Contingencies."Current and proposed regulation addressing consumer privacy and data use and security could increase our costs of operations, which could adversely affect our operations, results of operations and financial condition.We are subject to requirements relating to privacy and data use and security under federal, state and foreign laws. For example, the FTC has an on-going program of investigating the privacy practices of companies and has commenced enforcement actions against many, resulting in multi-million dollar settlements and multi-year agreements governing the settling companies' privacy practices. Furthermore, certain industry groups require us to adhere to privacy requirements in addition to federal, state and foreign laws, and certain of our business relationships depend upon our compliance with these requirements. As the number of countries enacting privacy and related laws increases and the scope of these laws and enforcement efforts expand, we will increasingly become subject to new and varying requirements. For example, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union are expected to adopt a comprehensive general data privacy regulation (“GDPR”) in 2016 that will replace the current EU Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation. The GDPR is anticipated to take effect in mid-2018. We are analyzing the GDPR to determine its potential effects on our business practices. Complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR may result in significant costs to our business and require us to amend certain of our business practices. Failure to comply with existing or future privacy and data use and security laws, regulations, and requirements to which we are subject or could become subject, including by reason of inadvertent disclosure of confidential information, could result in fines, sanctions, penalties or other adverse consequences and loss of consumer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, overall business and reputation. 43Table of ContentsIn addition, in connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, Western Union makes information available to certain United States federal, state, and foreign government agencies when required by law. In recent years, Western Union has experienced increasing data sharing requests by these agencies, particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing or reduce the risk of identity theft. During the same period, there has also been increased public attention to the corporate use and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. These regulatory goals - the prevention of money laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the individual's right to privacy - may conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. The legal, political and business environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other events could expose Western Union to increased program costs, liability and reputational damage. We are subject to unclaimed property laws, and differences between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows.We are subject to unclaimed property laws in the United States and abroad which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers. We have an ongoing program to help us comply with those laws. In addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our escheatment practices. Any difference between the amounts we have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant impact on our results of operations and cash flows. See "Unclaimed Property Regulations" for further discussion.Our consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.Our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated subsidiaries. We had substantial indebtedness as of December 31, 2015, which could make it more difficult to meet these requirements if such requirements are increased. In addition, although we are not a bank holding company for purposes of United States law or the law of any other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could require us to issue securities that would qualify as Tier 1 regulatory capital under the Basel Committee accords or retain earnings over a period of time. Also, our regulators specify the amount and composition of settlement assets that certain of our subsidiaries must hold in order to satisfy our outstanding settlement obligations. These regulators could further restrict the type of instruments that qualify as settlement assets or these regulators could require our regulated subsidiaries to maintain higher levels of settlement assets. For example, we have seen increased scrutiny from government regulators regarding the sufficiency of our capitalization and the appropriateness of our investments held in order to comply with state and other licensing requirements. Any change or increase in these regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.44Table of ContentsRisks Relating to the Spin-OffWe were incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of First Data on February 17, 2006. On September 29, 2006, First Data distributed 100% of its money transfer and consumer payments businesses and its interest in a Western Union money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real estate, through a tax-free distribution to First Data shareholders (the "Spin-off") through this previously owned subsidiary. The consolidated United States federal income tax return for First Data for 2006, which included the Company, has been examined by the IRS and no adjustments were proposed relating to the tax treatment of the Spin-Off. However, certain other adjustments were proposed by the IRS and are being contested through the IRS appeals process. Accordingly, the statute of limitations covering First Data’s 2006 return has not yet closed.If the Spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, First Data and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to indemnify First Data for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax allocation agreement.First Data received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the effect that the Spin-off (including certain related transactions) qualifies as a tax-free transaction to First Data, us and First Data stockholders for United States federal income tax purposes under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, assuming, among other things, the accuracy of the representations made by First Data to the IRS in the private letter ruling request. If the factual assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then First Data and we would not be able to rely on the ruling.The Spin-off was conditioned upon First Data's receipt of an opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel to First Data, to the effect that, with respect to requirements on which the IRS did not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. The opinion was based on, among other things, certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by First Data and us which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree with the opinion.If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and an opinion of tax counsel, the Spin-off were determined to be a taxable transaction, each holder of First Data common stock who received shares of our common stock in connection with the Spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common stock received. First Data would recognize taxable gain equal to the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by First Data in the contribution over First Data's tax basis in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. If First Data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible under the tax allocation agreement, the IRS might seek to collect such taxes from Western Union.Even if the Spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free distribution under section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Spin-off may result in significant United States federal income tax liabilities to First Data if 50% or more of First Data's stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) that includes the Spin-off. For purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding, arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an acquisition, within two years before or after the Spin-off are subject to special scrutiny.With respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be imposed as a result of a final determination that is inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the Spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant tax opinion) ("Spin-off Related Taxes"), we, one of our affiliates or any person that, after the Spin-off, is an affiliate thereof, will be liable to First Data for any such Spin-off Related Taxes attributable solely to actions taken by or with respect to us. In addition, we will also be liable for 50% of any Spin-off Related Taxes (i) that would not have been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and an action by First Data or (ii) where we and First Data each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in the imposition of such Spin-off Related Taxes. We may be similarly liable if we breach certain representations or covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. If we are required to indemnify First Data for taxes incurred as a result of the Spin-off being taxable to First Data, it likely would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.45Table of ContentsITEM 1B