Item 1A, Risk
    Factors—“Western Union has been the subject of
    class-action litigation, and remains the subject of other
    litigation as well as consent agreements with or enforcement
    actions by regulators” for more information on this
    agreement and settlement.


 


    Government agencies both inside and outside the United States
    may impose new or additional rules on money transfers affecting
    us or our agents, including regulations that:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    prohibit transactions in, to or from certain countries,
    governments and individuals and entities;




 



     
        •  

    
    impose additional identification, reporting or recordkeeping
    requirements;




 



     
        •  

    
    limit the entities capable of providing money transfer services
    or impose additional licensing or registration requirements;




 



     
        •  

    
    impose minimum capital or other financial requirements on us or
    our agents;




 



     
        •  

    
    limit or restrict the revenue which may be generated from money
    transfers, including transaction fees and revenue derived from
    foreign exchange;




 



     
        •  

    
    require additional disclosures to consumers;




 



     
        •  

    
    require the principal amount of money transfers originated in a
    country to be invested in that country or held in trust until
    they are paid; or




 



     
        •  

    
    limit the number or principal amount of money transfers which
    may be sent to or from the jurisdiction, whether by an
    individual, through one agent or in aggregate.





 


    One example of such a rule is the Payment Services Directive
    which became effective on November 1, 2009. The PSD has
    changed the payments market in the EU, harmonizing the licensing
    and certain other





    
    13



Table of Contents





    requirements for offering payment services within the EU.
    Previously, those requirements differed significantly among
    these countries. The PSD also imposed new rules on payment
    service providers like Western Union. In particular, the PSD
    makes us responsible for the compliance of our agents in the EU
    who are engaged by one of our payments institution subsidiaries.
    Thus, the risk of adverse regulatory action against us because
    of the actions of our EU agents and their subagents has
    increased. Under the PSD, we are now subject to investment
    safeguarding rules and periodic examinations similar to those we
    are subject to in the United States. These rules have resulted
    in increased costs to comply with the new requirements. The PSD
    could also increase competition in our areas of service.


 



    Escheat
    Regulations


 


    Our Company is subject to unclaimed or abandoned property
    (escheat) laws in the United States and abroad. These laws
    require us to turn over to certain government authorities the
    property of others held by our Company that has been unclaimed
    for a specified period of time, such as unpaid money transfers.
    We hold property subject to escheat laws and we have an ongoing
    program to comply with the laws. We are subject to audits with
    regard to our escheatment practices.


 



    Privacy
    and Information Security Regulations


 


    The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of
    personal information is required to provide our services. These
    activities are subject to information security standards, data
    privacy, data breach and related laws and regulations in the
    United States and other countries. In the United States, data
    privacy and data breach laws such as the federal
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and various state laws apply directly to
    a broad range of financial institutions including money
    transmitters like Western Union, and indirectly to companies
    that provide services to those institutions. Many state laws
    require us to provide notification to affected individuals,
    state officers and consumer reporting agencies in the event of a
    security breach of computer databases or physical documents that
    contain certain types of
    non-public
    personal information and present a risk for unauthorized use.


 


    The collection, transfer, disclosure, use and storage of
    personal information required to provide our services is subject
    to data privacy laws outside of the United States, such as laws
    adopted pursuant to the EU’s 95/46 EC Directive of the
    European Parliament (the “Data Protection Directive”),
    Canada’s Personal Information Protection and Electronic
    Documents Act, individual European national laws and data
    privacy laws of other provinces or countries. In some cases, the
    laws of a country may be more restrictive than the
    Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act or the laws developed to comply with the
    Data Protection Directive may impose additional duties on
    companies. Each of these laws may restrict the collection,
    transfer, processing, storage, use and disclosure of sensitive
    personal information, require notice to individuals of privacy
    practices and may give individuals certain rights to prevent the
    use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes
    such as marketing.


 


    These regulations, laws and industry standards also impose
    requirements for safeguarding personal information through the
    issuance of internal data security standards, controls or
    guidelines.


 


    In connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the
    prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and
    pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, Western Union
    makes information available to certain United States federal and
    state, as well as certain foreign government agencies when
    required by law. In recent years, these agencies have increased
    their requests for such information from Western Union and other
    companies (both financial service providers and others),
    particularly in connection with efforts to prevent terrorist
    financing or identity theft. During the same period, there has
    also been increased public attention regarding the corporate use
    and disclosure of personal information, accompanied by
    legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data
    protection, information security and consumer privacy. These
    regulatory goals—the prevention of money laundering,
    terrorist financing and identity theft and the protection of the
    individual’s right to privacy—may create a conflict,
    and the law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While
    we believe that Western Union is compliant with its regulatory
    responsibilities, the legal, political and business environments
    in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent legislation,
    regulation, litigation, court





    
    14



Table of Contents





    rulings or other events could expose Western Union to increased
    program costs, liability and reputational damage.


 



    Banking
    Regulation


 


    Western Union International Bank operates under a banking
    license granted by the Austrian Financial Market Authority
    (“FMA”), allowing the bank to offer a range of
    financial services in the 27 member states of the EU and the 3
    additional states of the European Economic Area. The banking
    license subjects our bank to the Austrian Banking Act regulation
    by the FMA and the Austrian National Bank. The bank also is
    subject to regulation, examination and supervision by the New
    York State Banking Department (the “Banking
    Department”), which has regulatory authority over our
    subsidiary that holds all interest in the bank, a limited
    liability investment company organized under Article XII of
    the New York Banking Law. An Agreement of Supervision with the
    Banking Department imposes various regulatory requirements
    including operational limitations, capital requirements,
    affiliate transaction limitations, and notice and reporting
    requirements. Banking Department approval is required under the
    New York Banking Law and the Agreement of Supervision prior to
    any change in control of the Article XII investment company.


 


    Since Western Union International Bank does not operate any
    banking offices in the United States and does not conduct
    business in the United States except as may be incidental to its
    activities outside the United States, our Company’s
    affiliation with Western Union International Bank does not cause
    it to be subject to the provisions of the Bank Holding Company
    Act.


 


    In Brazil, we have submitted applications to the Central Bank of
    Brazil for commercial bank and exchange broker licenses. Such
    licenses will enable us to engage in financial services which we
    are unable to provide today, including domestic money transfer
    and bill payments.


 



    Other


 


    Some of our services are subject to card association rules and
    regulations. For example, an independent standards-setting
    organization, the Payment Card Industry (“PCI”)
    Security Standards Council (including American Express, Discover
    Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide and
    Visa Inc. International) developed a set of comprehensive
    requirements concerning payment card account security through
    the transaction process, called the Payment Card Industry Data
    Security Standard (“PCI DSS”). All merchants and
    service providers that store, process and transmit payment card
    data are required to comply with PCI DSS as a condition to
    accepting credit cards. We are subject to annual reviews to
    ensure compliance with PCI regulations worldwide and are subject
    to fines if we are found to be non-compliant.


 


    Stored-value services offered by Western Union prepaid services
    are subject to federal and state laws and regulations related to
    consumer protection, licensing, escheat and money laundering.
    These laws are evolving, unclear and sometimes inconsistent, and
    the extent to which these laws apply to Western Union or its
    consumers is in a state of change. We are unable to determine
    the impact that the clarification of these laws and their future
    interpretations may have on these services.


 



    Employees
    and Labor


 


    As of January 31, 2010, our businesses employed
    approximately 6,800 employees. Our United States based
    employees are no longer represented by any unions or collective
    bargaining agreements.


 



    Available
    Information


 


    The Western Union Company is a Delaware corporation and its
    principal executive offices are located at 12500 East Belford
    Avenue, Englewood, CO, 80112, telephone
    (866) 405-5012.
    The Company’s Annual Report on
    Form 10-K,
    quarterly reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    current reports on
    Form 8-K,
    and amendments to those reports are available free of charge
    through the “Financial Information” portion of the
    Company’s web site, www.westernunion.com, as soon as
    reasonably practical after they are filed with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission, or the “SEC.” The SEC
    maintains a web site, www.sec.gov, which contains reports, proxy
    and information statements, and other information filed
    electronically with the SEC by the Company.




    
    15



Table of Contents






    Executive
    Officers of the Registrant


 


    As of February 26, 2010, our executives consist of the
    individuals listed below:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	






    Name



 


    Age


 


    Position



 






    Christina A. Gold



 

 


    62

 


 


    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director





    Guy A. Battista



 

 


    61

 


 


    Executive Vice President and President of Western Union
    Financial Services, Inc.





    Ranjana Clark



 

 


    49

 


 


    President, Global Business Payments and Executive Vice
    President, Head of Global Strategy





    Hikmet Ersek



 

 


    49

 


 


    Chief Operating Officer





    Gail Galuppo



 

 


    46

 


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer





    Robin Heller



 

 


    44

 


 


    Executive Vice President, Operations and IT





    Anne McCarthy



 

 


    50

 


 


    Executive Vice President of Communications and Corporate Affairs





    Scott Scheirman



 

 


    47

 


 


    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer





    David Schlapbach



 

 


    51

 


 


    Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary





    Stewart Stockdale



 

 


    48

 


 


    President, The Americas and Executive Vice President, Global
    Cards and Global Key Accounts





    Grover Wray



 

 


    49

 


 


    Executive Vice President of Human Resources








 


    Christina A. Gold is our President, Chief Executive
    Officer and one of our directors. Prior to taking these
    positions in September 2006, she was a Senior Executive Vice
    President of First Data and President of Western Union since May
    2002. From October 1999 to May 2002, she was Chairman, President
    and Chief Executive Officer of Excel Communications, Inc.
    Ms. Gold served as President and Chief Executive Officer of
    The Beaconsfield Group from March 1998 to October 1999. In 1970,
    she joined Avon Products, Inc., serving as President of Avon
    Canada from 1989 to 1993, President of Avon North America from
    1993 to 1997 and Executive Vice President of Global Development
    from 1997 to 1998. Ms. Gold is a Director of ITT
    Corporation and New York Life Insurance Company.


 


    Guy A. Battista is our Executive Vice President and
    President of Western Union Financial Services, Inc. Prior to
    taking this position in September 2006, he was an Executive Vice
    President and Chief Information Officer of First Data since
    March 2001. Mr. Battista joined First Data in 1990.


 


    Ranjana Clark is our President, Global Business Payments
    and Executive Vice President, Head of Global Strategy. Prior to
    joining Western Union in March 2009, she led the Wholesale
    Customer Experience Group at Wells Fargo & Company
    from January 2009. From April 2007 to December 2008, she served
    as Chief Marketing Officer of Wachovia Corporation. Prior to
    that time, from January 2001 to April 2007, she led the Treasury
    Services Division of Wachovia Corporation.


 


    Hikmet Ersek is our Chief Operating Officer. Prior to
    taking this position in January 2010, Mr. Ersek served as
    the Company’s Executive Vice President and Managing
    Director, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific Region
    from December 2008. From September 2006 to December 2008,
    Mr. Ersek served as the Company’s Executive Vice
    President and Managing Director, Europe/Middle East/Africa/South
    Asia. Prior to September 2006, Mr. Ersek held various
    positions of increasing responsibility with Western Union. Prior
    to joining Western Union in September 1999, Mr. Ersek was
    with GE Capital specializing in European payment systems and
    consumer finance.


 


    Gail Galuppo is our Executive Vice President and Chief
    Marketing Officer. Prior to joining Western Union in September
    2007, Ms. Galuppo was the Chief Marketing and Customer
    Officer of Standard Chartered Bank from August 2006, and the
    Global Head of Credit Cards of Standard Chartered Bank from
    September 2005 to August 2006. From April 2001 to August 2005,
    Ms. Galuppo led brand management, promotional retail
    marketing and product category strategy for Sears, Roebuck and
    Company, most recently serving as its Vice President, Brand and
    Category Strategy.


 


    Robin Heller is our Executive Vice President, Operations
    and IT. Prior to taking this position in September 2006, she was
    Senior Vice President, Global Operations for First Data since
    November 2004. From





    
    16



Table of Contents





    July 2003 to November 2004, Ms. Heller served in a similar
    capacity with Western Union. Prior to that time, she was Senior
    Vice President, Sales, Marketing and Operations for Western
    Union Commercial Services from July 2002 until June 2003 and
    Senior Vice President, Operations and Client Management for IPS,
    a First Data subsidiary, from July 2000 until June 2002.
    Ms. Heller joined First Data in 1988.


 


    Anne McCarthy is our Executive Vice President of
    Communications and Corporate Affairs. Prior to joining Western
    Union in March 2007, Ms. McCarthy was the Senior Vice
    President of Global Communications of SAP A.G. starting in
    August 2003. She served as Vice President of Communications for
    the DuPont Company from April 2002 until July 2003.


 


    Scott Scheirman is our Executive Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer. Prior to taking this position in September
    2006, Mr. Scheirman held a variety of positions with First
    Data, including Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
    Officer for Western Union from 1999 to September 2006. Prior to
    joining First Data in 1992, Mr. Scheirman was with
    Ernst & Young LLP.


 


    David Schlapbach is our Executive Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary. Prior to taking these positions in
    September 2006, Mr. Schlapbach held a variety of positions
    at First Data since joining it in 1996, including Deputy General
    Counsel—International, with responsibility for First
    Data’s legal matters outside the United States. In this
    capacity, he worked in First Data’s Paris office for four
    years, returning in 2004 to become General Counsel for Western
    Union. Prior to joining First Data, Mr. Schlapbach was an
    attorney at the law firm of Blackwell Sanders Peper Martin LLP
    in St. Louis, Missouri. Mr. Schlapbach also serves as
    the Chairman of the Board of the Western Union Foundation.


 


    Stewart A. Stockdale is our President, The Americas and
    Executive Vice President, Global Cards and Global Key Accounts.
    Prior to taking this position in January 2010,
    Mr. Stockdale served as our Executive Vice President and
    President, The Americas from November 2008. From June 2008 to
    November 2008, Mr. Stockdale served as Executive Vice
    President and President, United States and Canada, with Western
    Union. Prior to joining Western Union in June 2008,
    Mr. Stockdale served as the President of Simon Brand
    Ventures and as Chief Marketing Officer of Simon Property Group
    since 2002.


 


    Grover Wray is our Executive Vice President of Human
    Resources. Prior to taking this position in September 2006,
    Mr. Wray joined First Data as Senior Vice President, Human
    Resources for Western Union in October 2005. Prior to joining
    Western Union, from January 2004 to September 2005,
    Mr. Wray was Vice President, Leadership and Professional
    Development and Staffing, for Janus Capital Group. Previously,
    Mr. Wray served as Chief Human Resource Officer, North
    America for Heidrick & Struggles from 2003 to 2004.
    From 1988 to 2003, he held increasingly responsible senior
    management roles at Arthur Andersen LLP, culminating in the role
    of Managing Partner of Human Resources in North America.




    
    17



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1A. 

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    There are many factors that affect our business, financial
    position and results of operations, some of which are beyond our
    control. These risks include, but are not limited to, the risks
    described below. You should carefully consider all of these
    risks.


 



    Risks
    Relating to Our Business and Industry


 



    Interruptions
    in migration patterns, including as a result of economic
    conditions, could adversely affect our business, financial
    condition and results of operations.


 


    Our money transfer business relies in large part on migration,
    which brings workers to countries with greater economic
    opportunities than those available in their native countries. A
    significant portion of money transfers are sent by international
    migrants. Migration is affected by (among other factors) overall
    economic conditions, the availability of job opportunities,
    changes in immigration laws, and political or other events (such
    as war, terrorism or health emergencies) that would make it more
    difficult for workers to migrate or work abroad. Changes to
    these factors could adversely affect our remittance volume and
    could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position
    and results of operations.


 


    Many of our consumers work in industries that may be impacted by
    deteriorating economic conditions more quickly or significantly
    than other industries. Reduced job opportunities, especially in
    construction, manufacturing, hospitality, agriculture and
    retail, or overall weakness in the world’s economies, such
    as that currently being experienced, could adversely affect the
    number of money transfer transactions, the principal amounts
    transferred and correspondingly our results of operations. If
    general market softness in the economies of countries important
    to migrant workers continues, our results of operations could be
    adversely impacted. Additionally, if our consumer transactions
    decline, if the amount of money that consumers send per
    transaction declines, or if migration patterns shift due to weak
    or deteriorating economic conditions, our results of operations
    may be adversely affected.


 



    Our
    ability to adopt technology in response to changing industry and
    consumer needs or trends poses a challenge to our
    business.


 


    Our ability to compete in the markets we serve may be threatened
    by change, including changes in technology, changes with respect
    to consumer needs, competition and industry standards. We
    actively seek solutions that respond in a timely manner to new
    technology-based money transfer services such as internet, land
    and mobile phone-based money transfer services and prepaid,
    stored-value and other card-based money transfer services.
    Failure to respond well to these challenges could adversely
    impact our business, financial position and results of
    operations. Further, even if the company responds well to these
    challenges, the business and financial models offered by many of
    these alternatives, more technology-reliant means of money
    transfer may be materially less advantageous to us than the
    model offered by our traditional cash/agent model.


 



    Our
    business is subject to a wide range of laws and regulations,
    especially laws designed to prevent money laundering and
    terrorist financing. Failure by us, our agents or subagents to
    comply with those laws and regulations could have an adverse
    effect on our business, financial position and results of
    operations.


 


    As described under Item 1 of Part I, our business is
    subject to a wide range of laws and regulations. These include
    financial services regulations, consumer disclosure and consumer
    protection laws, currency control regulations, money transfer
    and payment instrument licensing regulations, escheat laws and
    laws covering consumer privacy, data protection and information
    security. Proposed legislation relating to financial services
    providers and consumer protection in various jurisdictions
    around the world may also affect the manner in which we provide
    our services.


 


    In the United States, several bills pending in the Senate and
    House of Representatives could change the way that financial
    services companies are regulated, managed and able to present
    their products and services to consumers. It remains unclear how
    these various proposals will be reconciled and enacted, and how
    a final version would affect our business. However, most of the
    proposals have in common the creation of a new





    
    18



Table of Contents





    Consumer Financial Protection Agency. These proposals would also
    give both consumers and government agencies new rights to
    challenge the financial services provided and would change the
    way financial services are presented and sold. These rights
    could include, for example, enhanced disclosure of foreign
    exchange calculations to remittance senders. Such changes could
    be costly for us to implement and oversee, and could expose us
    to increased regulatory oversight
    and/or
    litigation.


 


    Our services also are subject to an increasingly strict set of
    legal and regulatory requirements intended to help detect and
    prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and other illicit
    activity. The interpretation of those requirements by judges,
    regulatory bodies and enforcement agencies is changing, often
    quickly and with little notice. Economic and trade sanctions
    programs that are administered by the U.S. Treasury
    Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control prohibit or
    restrict transactions to or from or dealings with specified
    countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances,
    their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are
    specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics
    traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. As
    U.S. federal and state as well as foreign legislative and
    regulatory scrutiny and enforcement action in these areas
    increase, we expect that our costs of complying with these
    requirements will increase, perhaps substantially. Failure to
    comply with any of these requirements—by us or by our
    agents and their subagents (who are third parties over whom we
    have limited legal and practical control) could result in the
    suspension or revocation of a license or registration required
    to provide money transfer services, the limitation, suspension
    or termination of services, the seizure
    and/or
    forfeiture of our assets
    and/or the
    imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines. In
    addition to those direct costs, a failure by us or by our agents
    and their subagents to comply with applicable laws and
    regulations also could seriously damage our reputation and
    brands, and result in diminished revenue and profit and
    increased operating costs.


 


    In connection with regulatory requirements to assist in the
    prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and
    pursuant to legal obligations and authorizations, we make
    information available to certain United States federal and
    state, as well as certain foreign government agencies when
    required by law. In recent years, these agencies have increased
    their requests for such information from us and other companies
    (both financial service providers and others), particularly in
    connection with efforts to prevent terrorist financing. During
    the same period, there has also been increased public attention
    regarding the corporate use and disclosure of personal
    information, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended
    to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer
    privacy. These regulatory goals—the prevention of money
    laundering, terrorist financing and identity theft and the
    protection of the individual’s right to privacy—may
    conflict, and the law in these areas is not consistent or
    settled. While we believe that we are compliant with our
    regulatory responsibilities, the legal, political and business
    environments in these areas are rapidly changing, and subsequent
    legislation, regulation, litigation, court rulings or other
    events could expose us to increased program costs, liability and
    reputational damage.


 


    Changes in the regulatory environment may also impact the manner
    in which we may operate our business or may change the
    competitive landscape. Proposed legislation related to financial
    services providers and consumer protection in various
    jurisdictions around the world and at the federal and state
    level in the United States may subject us to additional
    regulatory oversight, mandate additional consumer disclosures,
    mandate additional taxes or fees to be imposed upon consumers,
    or otherwise impact the manner in which we provide our services.
    One example of such a change is the Payment Services Directive
    (“PSD”) which became effective on November 1,
    2009. The PSD has changed the payments market in the European
    Union (“EU”), harmonizing the licensing and certain
    other requirements for offering payment and other financial
    services, including remittances within the EU. Previously, those
    requirements differed significantly among these countries. The
    PSD also imposed new rules on payment service providers like
    Western Union. In particular, with the PSD coming into effect,
    Western Union will become responsible for the compliance of its
    agents in the EU who are engaged by one of our payments
    institution subsidiaries. Thus, the risk of adverse regulatory
    action against Western Union because of actions by its EU agents
    and their subagents has increased. These changes could result in
    increased costs to comply with the new requirements, or in the
    event we or our agents are unable to comply, could have an
    adverse impact on our business, financial position and results
    of operations. The PSD could also increase competition in some
    or all of our areas of service. Additional countries are likely
    to adopt legislation similar to the PSD.




    
    19



Table of Contents





    Our fees
    and/or
    foreign exchange spreads may be reduced or limited because of
    regulatory initiatives or proceedings that are either industry
    wide or specifically targeted at our company. For example,
    initiatives both in the United States and at G-8 summit meetings
    have focused on lowering international remittance costs. These
    initiatives may have an adverse impact on our business,
    financial position and results of operations.


 


    Recently, one state passed a law imposing a fee on certain money
    transfer transactions. We are working with legislators in that
    state to clarify the application of the fee. Although there is
    generally no sales tax on money transfer services elsewhere in
    the United States, the current budget shortfalls in many
    jurisdictions may lead other states or localities to impose
    similar taxes or fees. A tax or fee on money transfer services
    like Western Union could put us at a competitive disadvantage to
    other means of remittance which are not subject to the same
    taxes or fees.


 


    We are subject to regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt
    Practices Act (the “FCPA”) in the United States and
    similar laws in other countries, which generally prohibit
    companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments
    to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining
    business. Because our services are offered in virtually every
    country of the world, we face a higher risk associated with FCPA
    compliance than many other companies. Any determination that we
    have violated these laws could have an adverse effect on our
    business, financial position and results of operations.


 


    We are subject to unclaimed or abandoned property (escheat) laws
    in the United States and abroad which require us to turn over to
    certain government authorities the property of others held by us
    that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time, such as
    unpaid money transfers. We hold property subject to escheat laws
    and we have an ongoing program to comply with those laws. In
    addition, we are subject to audits with regard to our
    escheatment practices. Any difference between the amounts we
    have accrued for unclaimed property and amounts that are claimed
    by a state or foreign jurisdiction could have a significant
    impact on our results of operations and cash flows. See
    “—Escheat Regulations” for further discussion.


 


    Our business is subject to various United States federal, state
    and local laws and regulations, as well as laws and regulations
    outside the United States. Our United States business is subject
    to reporting, recordkeeping and anti-money laundering provisions
    of the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of
    2001, and to regulatory oversight and enforcement by the United
    States Department of the Treasury Financial Crimes Enforcement
    Network, or “FinCEN.” In addition, as a money
    transmitter, we are subject to licensing, regulation and
    examination by almost all the states and the District of
    Columbia. With the advent of the EU Payment Services Directive
    we have become directly subject to reporting, recordkeeping and
    anti-money laundering regulations in the EU. Our business in the
    EU is now subject to licensing, regulation and examination by
    our regulators in Ireland and the United Kingdom. If additional
    countries adopt money transfer legislation similar to the PSD,
    we could become subject to licensing, regulation and examination
    in those locations, as well.


 



    Current
    difficult conditions in the global financial markets, the global
    economic crisis and continued financial market disruptions could
    adversely affect our business, financial condition and results
    of operations.


 


    The global capital and credit markets have been experiencing
    unprecedented volatility and disruption and we face certain
    risks in the event that such events reoccur, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    Our agents or other business relationships having reduced sales
    or business as a result of a deterioration in economic
    conditions. As a result, our agents could reduce their numbers
    of locations or hours of operation, or cease doing business
    altogether. Businesses using our services may make fewer
    cross-currency payments or may have fewer customers making
    payments to them through us, particularly businesses in those
    industries that may be more affected by an economic downturn
    such as the automobile, mortgage and financial services
    industries.




 



     
        •  

    
    Our revolving credit facility with a consortium of banks is one
    source for funding liquidity needs and also backs our commercial
    paper program. If any of the banks participating in our credit
    facility fails








    
    20



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    to fulfill its lending commitment to us, our short-term
    liquidity and ability to support borrowings under our commercial
    paper program could be adversely affected.





 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    We may be unable to refinance our existing indebtedness as it
    becomes due or we may have to refinance on unfavorable terms,
    which could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our
    cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby
    reducing funds available for working capital, capital
    expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and other purposes.




 



     
        •  

    
    The market value of the securities in our investment portfolio
    may substantially decline. The impact of that decline in value
    may adversely affect our results of operations and financial
    condition.




 



     
        •  

    
    The derivative financial instruments that we use reduce our
    exposure to various market risks including changes in interest
    rates and foreign exchange rates. Our counterparties to our
    derivative instruments may fail to honor their obligations,
    which could expose us to risks we had sought to mitigate. That
    failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition
    and results of operations.




 



     
        •  

    
    We aggregate our foreign exchange exposures in our Custom House
    business, including the exposure generated by the derivative
    contracts we write to our customers as part of our
    cross-currency payments business, and typically hedges the net
    exposure through offsetting contracts with established financial
    institution counterparties. If our customers fail to honor their
    obligations or if the counterparties to our offsetting positions
    fail to honor their obligations, our business, financial
    position and results of operations could be adversely affected.




 



     
        •  

    
    Our exposure to receivables from our agents, consumers and
    businesses could impact us. For more information on this risk,
    see risk factor, “We face credit, liquidity and fraud
    risks from our agents, consumers and businesses that could
    adversely affect our business, financial position and results of
    operations.”




 



     
        •  

    
    The third-party service providers on whom we depend may
    experience difficulties in their businesses, which may impair
    their ability to provide services to us and have a potential
    impact on our own business. The impact of a change or temporary
    stoppage of services may have an adverse effect on our business,
    results of operations and financial condition.




 



     
        •  

    
    Banks upon which we rely to conduct our businesses could fail.
    This could lead to our inability to access funds
    and/or
    credit losses for us and could adversely impact our ability to
    conduct our business.




 



     
        •  

    
    If market disruption and volatility occurs, we could experience
    difficulty in accessing capital and our business, financial
    condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted.





 



    Risks
    associated with operations outside the United States and foreign
    currencies could adversely affect our business, financial
    position and results of operations.


 


    An increasing portion of our revenue is generated in currencies
    other than the United States dollar. As a result, we are subject
    to risks associated with changes in the value of our revenues
    denominated in foreign currency. We also recently acquired
    Canada-based Custom House which provides currency conversion and
    foreign exchange hedging services to its customers. In order to
    mitigate these risks, we enter into derivative contracts.
    However, these contracts do not eliminate all of the risks
    related to fluctuating foreign currency rates.


 


    With the acquisition of Custom House in the third quarter of
    2009, our foreign exchange risk and associated foreign exchange
    risk management has increased due to the nature of this
    business. The significant majority of Custom House’s
    revenue is from exchanges of currency at the spot rate enabling
    customers to make cross-currency payments. This business also
    writes foreign currency forward and option contracts for our
    customers. The duration of these derivatives contracts is
    generally nine months or less. Custom House aggregates its
    foreign exchange exposures arising from customer contracts,
    including the derivative contracts described above, and hedges
    the resulting net currency risks by entering into offsetting
    contracts with





    
    21



Table of Contents





    established financial institution counterparties. If we are
    unable to obtain offsetting positions, our business, financial
    position and results of operations could be adversely affected.


 


    A significant portion of our revenue is generated outside of the
    United States and much of the cash and cash equivalents from
    this business are held by our foreign entities. Repatriating
    these funds to the United States would, in many cases,
    result in significant tax obligations because most of these
    funds have been taxed at foreign tax rates that are relatively
    low compared to our combined federal and state tax rates in the
    United States. If repatriation of these funds is required or if
    a change in legislation requires a different tax treatment, that
    could have an adverse impact on our business, financial position
    and results of operations.


 


    Money transfers and payments to, from or within or between
    countries may be limited or prohibited by law. At times in the
    past, we have been required to cease operations in particular
    countries due to political uncertainties or government
    restrictions imposed by foreign governments or the United
    States. Occasionally agents have been required by their
    regulators to cease offering our services. Additionally,
    economic or political instability or natural disasters may make
    money transfers to, from or within a particular country
    difficult, such as when banks are closed, when currency
    devaluation makes exchange rates difficult to manage or when
    natural disasters or civil unrest makes access to agent
    locations unsafe. These risks could negatively impact our
    ability to make payments to or receive payments from
    international agents or our ability to recoup funds that have
    been advanced to international agents and could adversely affect
    our business, financial position and results of operations. In
    addition, the general state of telecommunications and
    infrastructure in some lesser developed countries, including
    countries where we have a large number of transactions, creates
    operational risks for us and our agents that generally are not
    present in our operations in the United States and other more
    developed countries.


 


    Many of our agents outside the United States are post offices,
    which are usually owned and operated by national governments.
    These governments may decide to change the terms under which
    they allow post offices to offer remittances and other financial
    services. For example, governments may decide to separate
    financial service operations from postal operations, or mandate
    the creation or privatization of a “post bank” or they
    may require multiple service providers in their network. These
    changes could have an adverse effect on our ability to
    distribute, offer or price our services in countries that are
    material to our business.


 



    Changes
    in tax laws and unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies
    could adversely affect our tax expense.


 


    Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by
    changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. From
    time to time, the United States Congress and foreign, state and
    local governments consider legislation that could increase our
    effective tax rates. Recent proposed changes to the United
    States tax laws, if enacted, could potentially adversely affect
    our future effective tax rate. The proposed changes include
    limiting tax deductions for interest related to unrepatriated
    foreign-source income and modifications to the United States
    foreign tax credit. We cannot determine whether, or in what
    form, legislation implementing the proposals will ultimately be
    enacted. If these or other changes to applicable tax laws are
    enacted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted.


 


    Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by
    federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An
    unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax
    expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations.
    We have established contingency reserves for material, known tax
    exposures, including potential tax audit adjustments with
    respect to our international operations which were restructured
    in 2003, whereby our income from certain
    foreign-to-foreign
    money transfer transactions has been taxed at relatively low
    foreign tax rates compared to our combined federal and state tax
    rates in the United States. As of December 31, 2009, the
    total amount of unrecognized tax benefits is a liability of
    $522.7 million, including accrued interest and penalties.
    Our reserves reflect our judgment as to the resolution of the
    issues involved if subject to judicial review. While we believe
    that our reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax
    risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an
    issue raised by a tax authority will be resolved at a financial
    cost that does not exceed our related reserve, and such
    resolution could have a material affect on our effective tax
    rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows
    in the current period
    and/or
    future periods. With respect to these reserves, our income tax
    expense would include





    
    22



Table of Contents





    (i) any changes in tax reserves arising from material
    changes during the period in the facts and circumstances (i.e.
    new information) surrounding a tax issue, and (ii) any
    difference from the Company’s tax position as recorded in
    the financial statements and the final resolution of a tax issue
    during the period. Such resolution could materially increase or
    decrease income tax expense in our consolidated financial
    statements in future periods and could impact our operating cash
    flows.


 


    The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) completed its
    examination of the United States federal consolidated income tax
    returns of First Data Corporation (“First Data”) for
    2003 and 2004, of which Western Union was a part, and issued a
    Notice of Deficiency in December 2008. The Notice of Deficiency
    alleges significant additional taxes, interest and penalties
    owed with respect to a variety of adjustments involving us and
    our subsidiaries, and we generally have responsibility for taxes
    associated with these potential Company-related adjustments
    under the tax allocation agreement with First Data executed at
    the time of the Spin-off. We agree with a number of the
    adjustments in the Notice of Deficiency; however, we do not
    agree with the Notice of Deficiency regarding several
    substantial adjustments representing total alleged additional
    tax and penalties due of approximately $114 million. As of
    December 31, 2009, interest on the alleged amounts due for
    unagreed adjustments would be approximately $30 million. A
    substantial part of the alleged amounts due for these unagreed
    adjustments relates to our international restructuring, which
    took effect in the fourth quarter 2003, and, accordingly, the
    alleged amounts due related to such restructuring largely are
    attributable to 2004. On March 20, 2009, we filed a
    petition in the United States Tax Court contesting those
    adjustments with which we do not agree. We believe our overall
    reserves are adequate, including those associated with the
    adjustments alleged in the Notice of Deficiency. If the
    IRS’ position in the Notice of Deficiency is sustained, our
    tax provision related to 2003 and later years would materially
    increase, which could materially impact our financial position,
    results of operations and cash flows. See Note 10 to our
    consolidated financial statements for a further discussion of
    this matter.


 



    Acquisitions
    and integration of new businesses create risks and may affect
    operating results.


 


    We occasionally acquire businesses both inside and outside the
    United States. The acquisition and integration of businesses
    involve a number of risks. The core risks involve valuation
    (negotiating a fair price for the business based on inherently
    limited due diligence) and integration (managing the complex
    process of integrating the acquired company’s people,
    products and services, technology and other assets in an effort
    to realize the projected value of the acquired company and the
    projected synergies of the acquisition). In addition, the need
    in some cases to improve regulatory compliance standards is
    another risk associated with acquiring companies. International
    acquisitions often involve additional or increased risks
    including, for example:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    managing geographically separated organizations, systems and
    facilities;




 



     
        •  

    
    integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and
    organizational cultures;




 



     
        •  

    
    integrating the acquired technologies into our company;




 



     
        •  

    
    realization of anticipated financial benefits from these
    acquisitions and where necessary, improving internal controls of
    these acquired businesses;




 



     
        •  

    
    complying with regulatory requirements;




 



     
        •  

    
    fluctuations in currency exchange rates;




 



     
        •  

    
    enforcement of intellectual property rights in some foreign
    countries;




 



     
        •  

    
    difficulty entering new markets with the services of the
    acquired business; and




 



     
        •  

    
    general economic and political conditions, including legal and
    other barriers to cross-border investment in general, or by
    United States companies in particular.





 


    Integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or divert
    resources from, one or more of our businesses and could result
    in the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s
    attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in
    connection with an acquisition and the integration of the
    acquired





    
    23



Table of Contents





    company’s operations could have an adverse effect on our
    business, financial position and results of operations.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had $2,143.4 million of
    goodwill comprising approximately 29% of our total assets. An
    impairment review of goodwill is conducted at least once a year
    and more frequently if events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that the carrying value of the goodwill may not be
    recoverable. If we are unsuccessful in integrating the
    businesses we have acquired or acquire in the future, or if
    these acquired businesses experience declines in operating
    income or cash flows, adverse changes in the business climate,
    or if we are unable to successfully execute our strategy for
    these businesses, we may be required to write down the goodwill
    on our balance sheet associated with these acquisitions, which
    could have an impact on our financial position and results of
    operations in future periods.


 



    Our
    consolidated balance sheet may not contain sufficient amounts or
    types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of
    our various regulators worldwide, which could adversely affect
    our business, financial position and results of
    operations.


 


    We have substantial indebtedness as of December 31, 2009.
    Our regulators expect us to possess sufficient financial
    soundness and strength to adequately support our regulated
    subsidiaries. In addition, although we are not a bank holding
    company for purposes of United States law or the law of any
    other jurisdiction, as a global provider of payments services
    and in light of the changing regulatory environment in various
    jurisdictions, we could become subject to new capital
    requirements introduced or imposed by our regulators that could
    require us to issue securities that would qualify as Tier 1
    regulatory capital under the Basel Committee accords or retain
    earnings over a period of time. Any of these requirements could
    adversely affect our business, financial position and results of
    operations.


 



    If we
    are unable to maintain our agent, subagent or global business
    payments networks under terms consistent with those currently in
    place, or if our agents or subagents fail to comply with Western
    Union business and technology standards and contract
    requirements or applicable laws and regulations, our business,
    financial position and results of operations would be adversely
    affected.


 


    Most of our
    consumer-to-consumer
    revenue is derived through our agent network. In addition, our
    international agents may have subagent relationships in which we
    are not directly involved. Transaction volumes at existing agent
    and subagent locations often increase over time and new agents
    and subagents provide us with additional revenue. If agents or
    subagents decide to leave our network, if we are unable to sign
    new agents or maintain our agent network under terms consistent
    with those currently in place, or if our agents are unable to
    maintain relationships with or sign new subagents, our revenue
    and profit growth rates may be adversely affected. Agent
    attrition might occur for a number of reasons, including a
    competitor engaging an agent or an agent’s dissatisfaction
    with its relationship with us or the revenue derived from that
    relationship. In addition, agents may generate fewer
    transactions or less revenue for various reasons, including
    increased competition or changes in the economy. Because an
    agent is a third party that engages in a variety of activities
    in addition to providing our services, it may encounter business
    difficulties unrelated to its provision of our services, which
    could cause the agent to reduce its number of locations, hours
    of operation, or cease doing business altogether.


 


    We rely on our agents’ information systems
    and/or
    processes to obtain transaction data. If an agent or subagent
    loses information, if there is a significant disruption to the
    information systems of an agent or subagent, or if an agent or
    subagent does not maintain the appropriate controls over their
    systems, we may experience reputational harm which could result
    in losses to the Company.


 


    The types of enterprises that are legally authorized to act as
    our agents vary significantly from one country to another.
    Changes in the laws affecting the kinds of entities that are
    permitted to act as money transfer agents (such as changes in
    requirements for capitalization or ownership) could adversely
    affect our ability to distribute our services and the cost of
    providing such services, both by us and our agents. For example,
    a requirement that a money transfer provider be a bank or other
    highly regulated financial entity could increase significantly
    the cost of providing our services in many countries where that
    requirement does





    
    24



Table of Contents





    not exist today or could prevent us from offering our services
    in an affected country. Further, any changes in law that would
    require us to provide directly the money transfer services to
    consumers as opposed to through an agent
    network—effectively changing our business model—could
    significantly adversely impact our ability to provide our
    services,
    and/or the
    cost of our services, in the relevant jurisdiction. Changes
    mandated by laws such as the EU Payment Services Directive,
    which make Western Union responsible for any acts of its agents
    while they are providing the Western Union money transfer
    service, increase our risk of regulatory liability and our costs
    for monitoring our agents’ performance.


 


    Our agents are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements,
    which differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and are subject
    to change. A material change in the regulatory requirements
    necessary to offer money transfer services in a jurisdiction
    important to our business could mean increased costs
    and/or
    operational demands on our agents, which could result in the
    attrition of agents and subagents, a decrease in the number of
    locations at which money transfer services are offered and other
    negative consequences. The regulatory status of our agents could
    affect their ability to offer our services. For example, our
    agents in the United States are considered Money Service
    Businesses, or “MSBs,” under the Bank Secrecy Act. An
    increasing number of banks view MSBs, as a class, as higher risk
    customers for purposes of their anti-money laundering programs.
    Furthermore, some of our agents have had difficulty establishing
    banking relationships due to the banks’ credit policies. If
    a significant number of agents are unable to maintain existing
    or establish new banking relationships, they may not be able to
    continue to offer our services.


 


    Although most of our Orlandi Valuta and Vigo branded agents are
    not exclusive, most of our Western Union branded agents have
    offered our services on an exclusive basis—that is, they
    have agreed by contract not to provide any non-Western Union
    branded money transfer services. While we expect to continue
    signing agents under exclusive arrangements and believe that
    these agreements generally are valid and enforceable, changes in
    laws regulating competition or in the interpretation of those
    laws could undermine our ability to enforce them in the future.
    Recently, several countries in the Commonwealth of Independent
    States, Africa and South Asia have promulgated laws or
    regulations that effectively prohibit payment service providers,
    such as money transfer companies, from agreeing to exclusive
    arrangements with agents in those countries. Certain
    institutions, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and others
    are actively advocating against exclusive arrangements in money
    transfer agent agreements. Advocates for laws prohibiting or
    limiting exclusivity continue to push for enactment of similar
    laws in other jurisdictions. The inability to enter into
    exclusive arrangements or to enforce our exclusivity rights
    under our contracts could adversely affect our operations and
    revenue by, for example, allowing competitors to benefit from
    the goodwill associated with the Western Union brand at our
    agent locations.


 


    We have relationships with more than 6,300 businesses to which
    our consumers can make payments. These relationships are a core
    component of our global business payments services, and we
    derive a substantial portion of our global business payments
    revenue through these relationships. If we are unable to sign
    new relationships or maintain our current relationships under
    terms consistent with those currently in place, our revenue and
    profit growth rates may be adversely affected.


 



    If
    consumers’ confidence in our business or in traditional
    money transfer providers generally deteriorates, our business,
    financial position and results of operations could be adversely
    affected.


 


    Our business is built on consumers’ confidence in our
    brands and our ability to provide fast, reliable money transfer
    services. Erosion in consumers’ confidence in our business,
    or in traditional money transfer providers as a means to
    transfer money, could adversely impact transaction volumes which
    would in turn adversely impact our business, financial position
    and results of operations.


 


    A number of factors could adversely affect consumers’
    confidence in our business, or in traditional money transfer
    providers generally, many of which are beyond our control, and
    could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. These
    factors include:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations that have the
    effect of making it more difficult for consumers to transfer
    money using traditional money transfer providers;







    
    25



Table of Contents




 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    actions by federal, state or foreign regulators that interfere
    with our ability to transfer consumers’ money reliably, for
    example, attempts to seize money transfer funds;




 



     
        •  

    
    federal, state or foreign legal requirements, including those
    that require us to provide consumer data to a greater extent
    than is currently required;




 



     
        •  

    
    any significant interruption in our systems, including by fire,
    natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure,
    terrorism, vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer
    viruses; and




 



     
        •  

    
    any breach of our security policies or legal requirements
    resulting in a compromise of consumer data.





 


    Many of our money transfer consumers are migrants. Consumer
    advocacy groups or governmental agencies could consider the
    migrants to be disadvantaged and entitled to protection,
    enhanced consumer disclosure, or other different treatment. If
    governments implement new laws or regulations that limit our
    right to set fees
    and/or
    foreign exchange spreads, or if consumer advocacy groups are
    able to generate widespread support for positions that are
    detrimental to our business, then our business, financial
    position and results of operations could be adversely affected.
    For example, Pakistan has recently started to subsidize certain
    remittances into the country from Pakistanis working abroad.
    Remittance companies accepting the subsidy would be prohibited
    from charging fees to the sender or receiver. While the
    geographical extent and other details are being determined, it
    is an example of governmental intervention in our industry.


 



    We
    face credit, liquidity and fraud risks from our agents,
    consumers and businesses that could adversely affect our
    business, financial position and results of
    operations.


 


    The vast majority of our global funds transfer business is
    conducted through third-party agents that provide our services
    to consumers at their retail locations. These agents sell our
    services, collect funds from consumers and are required to pay
    the proceeds from these transactions to us. As a result, we have
    credit exposure to our agents. In some countries, our agent
    networks include superagents that establish subagent
    relationships; these agents must collect funds from their
    subagents in order to pay us. We are not insured against credit
    losses, except in certain circumstances related to agent theft
    or fraud. If an agent becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy,
    commits fraud or otherwise fails to pay money order, money
    transfer or payment services proceeds to us, we must nonetheless
    pay the money order, complete the money transfer or payment
    services on behalf of the consumer.


 


    The liquidity of our agents is necessary for our business to
    remain strong and to continue to provide our services. If our
    agents are unable to settle with us in a timely manner, our
    liquidity could be affected.


 


    From time to time, we have made, and may in the future make,
    short term advances and longer term loans to our agents. These
    advances and loans generally are secured by settlement funds
    payable by us to these agents. However, the failure of these
    borrowing agents to repay these advances and loans constitutes a
    credit risk to us.


 


    As a result of our acquisition of Custom House, we are also
    exposed to credit risk relating to foreign currency forward and
    option contracts written by us to our customers. The duration of
    these derivative contracts is generally nine months or less. If
    a customer becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, commits
    fraud or otherwise fails to pay us for the value of these
    contracts, we may be exposed to the value of an offsetting
    position with a financial institution counterparty.


 


    We offer consumers, primarily in the United States, the ability
    to transfer money utilizing their credit or debit card via the
    internet and telephone. Because they are not
    face-to-face
    transactions, these transactions involve a greater risk of
    fraud. We apply verification and other tools to help
    authenticate transactions and protect against fraud. However,
    these tools are not always successful in protecting us against
    fraud. As the merchant of these transactions, we may bear the
    financial risk of the full amount sent in some of the fraudulent
    transactions. Issuers of credit and debit cards may also incur
    losses due to fraudulent transactions through our distribution
    channels and may elect to block transactions by their
    cardholders in these channels with or without notice. For
    example, during 2007, we received notification from several
    issuing banks that





    
    26



Table of Contents





    credit or debit cards issued by them were blocked from
    transacting on westernunion.com. Although these banks
    subsequently have allowed our consumers to use their cards again
    on our website, there is no certainty that these banks will not
    issue a similar restriction in the future, and as a result, we
    may continue to be impacted by notifications such as these in
    the future. Additionally, we may be subject to additional fees
    or penalties if the amount of chargebacks exceeds a certain
    percentage of our transaction volume. Such fees and penalties
    escalate over time if we do not take effective action to reduce
    chargebacks below the threshold, and if chargeback levels are
    not ultimately reduced to acceptable levels, could lead to the
    suspension or revocation of our merchant accounts, which would
    adversely affect our results of operations.


 


    The remittance industry has come under increasing scrutiny from
    government regulators and others in connection with its ability
    to prevent its services from being abused by people seeking to
    defraud others. A competitor of Western Union recently entered
    into a multi-year, multi-million dollar settlement with the
    Federal Trade Commission over this issue. While we believe our
    fraud prevention efforts are effective and comply with
    applicable law and best practices, the ingenuity of criminal
    fraudsters, combined with the potential susceptibility to fraud
    by consumers during economically difficult times, make the
    prevention of consumer fraud a significant and challenging
    problem. Our failure to continue to help prevent such frauds, an
    increase in government enforcement activity or a change in laws
    or their interpretation could pose a material challenge to us.


 



    Interruptions
    in our systems or disruptions in our workforce may have a
    significant effect on our business.


 


    Our ability to provide reliable service largely depends on the
    efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer
    information systems and those of our service providers. Any
    significant interruptions could harm our business and reputation
    and result in a loss of consumers. These systems and operations
    could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural
    disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorism,
    vendor failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses or other
    causes, many of which may be beyond our control or that of our
    service providers. Although we have taken steps to prevent
    systems failure, our measures may not be successful and we may
    experience problems other than system failures. We also may
    experience software defects, development delays, installation
    difficulties and other systems problems, which would harm our
    business and reputation and expose us to potential liability
    which may not be fully covered by our business interruption
    insurance. In addition, any strikes, work stoppages or other
    labor actions by employees who support our systems or perform
    any of our major functions could adversely affect our business.
    Our data applications may not be sufficient to address
    technological advances, regulatory requirements, changing market
    conditions or other developments.


 



    Our
    business, financial position and results of operations could be
    harmed by adverse rating actions by credit rating
    agencies.


 


    Currently, each of the major credit rating agencies has given
    our outstanding indebtedness an investment grade rating. If our
    current rating is downgraded, or if a negative outlook is
    provided by a rating agency, our business, financial position
    and results of operations could be adversely affected and
    perceptions of our financial strength could be damaged. This
    could adversely affect our relationships with our agents,
    particularly those agents that are financial institutions or
    post offices. In addition, if a downgrade or a negative outlook
    is provided by a rating agency, it could result in regulators
    imposing additional capital and other requirements on us,
    including imposing restrictions on the ability of our regulated
    subsidiaries to pay dividends. Also, a significant downgrade
    could increase our costs of borrowing money, adversely affecting
    our business, financial position and results of operations.


 



    Western
    Union has been the subject of
    class-action
    litigation, and remains the subject of other litigation as well
    as consent agreements with or enforcement actions by
    regulators.


 


    Western Union has been the subject of
    class-action
    litigation in the United States, alleging that its foreign
    exchange rate disclosures failed to adequately inform consumers
    about the revenue that Western Union and its agents derive from
    international remittances. These suits were all settled in or
    before 2004, without an admission of liability, and we have made
    changes in our advertising and consumer forms. It is possible
    that





    
    27



Table of Contents





    because of changes in law or future litigation or regulatory
    action, we could be required to modify our disclosures or our
    practices further. These modifications could be costly to
    implement, restrict our ability to advertise or promote our
    services
    and/or limit
    the amount of our foreign exchange income.


 


    In addition, as a company that provides global financial
    services primarily to consumers, we could be subject to future
    class-action
    lawsuits, other litigation or regulatory action alleging
    violations of consumer protection or other laws. We also are
    subject to claims asserted by consumers based on individual
    transactions.


 


    We recently entered into an agreement and settlement with the
    State of Arizona regarding claims concerning our ability to
    prevent our service from being abused by some users to launder
    money or to facilitate other criminal activity. The agreement
    and settlement resolved all outstanding legal issues and claims
    with the State. In addition to certain investments in, and
    changes to, our anti-money laundering compliance obligations in
    the region during the term of the agreement, we are required to
    fund a multi-state
    not-for-profit
    organization promoting safety and security along the United
    States and Mexico border, in which California, Texas and New
    Mexico will participate with Arizona. The settlement relates to
    a number of lawsuits in which we and the State of Arizona were
    parties. The issues in those cases related to subpoenas for
    transaction data and the State’s attempt to seize money
    transfers originated in states other than Arizona and intended
    for payment in Mexico. Additional civil actions or any criminal
    actions could adversely affect our business, financial position
    and results of operations.


 


    The United States Department of Justice served one of our
    subsidiaries with a grand jury subpoena requesting documents in
    connection with an investigation into money transfers from the
    United States to the Dominican Republic during the last several
    years. Due to the stage of the investigation, we are unable to
    predict the outcome of the investigation, or the possible loss
    or range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of any
    charges that may be brought against us.


 


    Over the past several years, we have entered into consent
    agreements with federal and state authorities, including FinCEN,
    the New York State Banking Department, the California Department
    of Financial Institutions and the Arizona Department of
    Financial Institutions, relating to the Bank Secrecy Act and
    anti-money laundering requirements and related consumer
    identification matters. These agreements required us to pay
    civil penalties and to take certain measures to enhance our
    compliance with recordkeeping, reporting, training and agent
    oversight requirements under applicable state and federal law.
    The consent agreements with the New York State Banking
    Department and the California Department of Financial
    Institutions were lifted during 2007. However, the financial
    services industry and businesses like ours continue to be under
    significant federal and state regulatory scrutiny with respect
    to the Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering compliance
    matters. It is possible that as a result of periodic
    examinations or otherwise, we could be subject to deficiency
    findings, fines, criminal penalties, asset seizures or
    enforcement actions that could adversely affect our business,
    financial position and results of operations.


 



    We
    face competition from global and niche or corridor money
    transfer providers, United States and international banks, card
    associations, card-based payments providers and a number of
    other types of service providers, including electronic and
    internet providers. Our continued growth depends on our ability
    to compete effectively in the industry.


 


    Money transfer and global business payments are highly
    competitive industries which include service providers from a
    variety of financial and non-financial business groups. Our
    competitors include banks, credit unions, ATM providers and
    operators, card associations, card-based payments providers such
    as issuers of
    e-money,
    travel cards or stored-value cards, informal remittance systems,
    web-based services, telephone payment systems (including mobile
    phone networks), postal organizations, retailers, check cashers,
    mail and courier services, currency exchanges and traditional
    money transfer companies. These services are differentiated by
    features and functionalities such as speed, convenience, network
    size, hours of operations, loyalty programs, reliability and
    price. Our continued growth depends on our ability to compete
    effectively in these industries. We have made periodic pricing
    decreases in response to competition and to implement our brand
    investment strategy, which includes better meeting consumer
    needs, maximizing market opportunities and strengthening our
    overall competitive positioning. Pricing decreases generally
    reduce margins, but are





    
    28



Table of Contents





    done in anticipation that they will result in increased
    transaction volumes. In addition, failure to compete on service
    differentiation could significantly affect our future growth
    potential and results of operations.


 


    As noted above, many of our agents outside the United States are
    national post offices. These entities are usually governmental
    organizations that may enjoy special privileges or protections
    that could allow them to simultaneously develop their own money
    transfer businesses. International postal organizations could
    agree to establish a money transfer network among themselves.
    Due to the size of these organizations and the number of
    locations they have, any such network could represent
    significant competition to us. Because these entities are
    governmental organizations, they may be able to—or be
    required to—offer their money transfer services to the
    public at, near or below their cost of providing such services.


 



    Our
    ability to remain competitive depends in part on our ability to
    protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights
    and to defend ourselves against potential patent infringement
    claims.


 


    The Western Union brand, which is protected by trademark
    registrations in many countries, is material to our company. The
    loss of the Western Union trademark or a diminution in the
    perceived quality associated with the name would harm our
    business. Similar to the Western Union trademark, the Vigo,
    Orlandi Valuta, Speedpay, Paymap, Equity Accelerator, Just in
    Time EFT, Pago Fácil, Western Union Quick Collect, Quick
    Pay, Quick Cash, Convenience Pay, Custom House and other
    trademarks and service marks are also important to our company
    and a loss of the service mark or trademarks or a diminution in
    the perceived quality associated with these names could harm our
    business.


 


    Our intellectual property rights are an important element in the
    value of our business. Our failure to take appropriate actions
    against those who infringe upon our intellectual property could
    adversely affect our business, financial position and results of
    operations.


 


    The laws of certain foreign countries in which we do business
    either do not recognize intellectual property rights or do not
    protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United
    States. Adverse determinations in judicial or administrative
    proceedings in the United States or in foreign countries could
    impair our ability to sell our services or license or protect
    our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our
    business, financial position and results of operations.


 


    We have been, are and in the future may be, subject to claims
    alleging that our technology or business methods infringe
    patents owned by others, both inside and outside the United
    States. Unfavorable resolution of these claims could require us
    to change how we deliver a service, result in significant
    financial consequences, or both, which could adversely affect
    our business, financial position and results of operations.


 



    We
    receive services from third-party vendors that would be
    difficult to replace if those vendors ceased providing such
    services which could cause temporary disruption to our
    business.


 


    Some services relating to our business, such as software
    application support, the development, hosting and maintenance of
    our operating systems, check clearing, and processing of
    returned checks are outsourced to third-party vendors, which
    would be difficult to replace quickly. If our third-party
    vendors were unwilling or unable to provide us with these
    services in the future, our business and operations could be
    adversely affected.


 



    Breaches
    of our information security policies or safeguards could
    adversely affect our ability to operate and could damage our
    reputation, business, financial position and results of
    operations.


 


    We collect, transfer and retain consumer, employee and agent
    data as part of our business. These activities are subject to
    laws and regulations in the United States and other
    jurisdictions. The requirements imposed by these laws and
    regulations, which often differ materially among the many
    jurisdictions, are designed to protect the privacy of personal
    information and to prevent that information from being
    inappropriately disclosed. We have developed and maintain
    technical and operational safeguards designed to comply with
    applicable legal requirements. However, despite those
    safeguards, it is possible that hackers, employees acting
    contrary to our policies or others could improperly access our
    systems or improperly obtain or disclose data about our
    consumers, agents
    and/or
    employees. Further, because some data is collected and





    
    29



Table of Contents





    stored by third parties, it is possible that a third party could
    intentionally or negligently disclose personal data in violation
    of law. Also, in some jurisdictions we transfer data related to
    our employees, consumers, agents and potential employees to
    third-party vendors in order to perform due diligence and for
    other reasons. It is possible that a vendor could intentionally
    or inadvertently disclose such data. Any breach of our security
    policies or applicable legal requirements resulting in a
    compromise of consumer, employee or agent data could require us
    to notify impacted individuals, and in some cases regulators, of
    a possible or actual breach, expose us to regulatory enforcement
    action, limit our ability to provide services, subject us to
    litigation
    and/or
    damage our reputation.


 



    Material
    changes in the market value or liquidity of the securities we
    hold may adversely affect our results of operations and
    financial condition.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we held $1.2 billion in
    investment securities, substantially all of which are high
    quality investment grade state and municipal debt obligations.
    The majority of this money represents the principal of money
    transfers sent by consumers and money orders issued by us to
    consumers in the United States. Under the PSD in the EU, we
    expect to have a similar portfolio of investment securities,
    which we will manage in a similar manner and under similar
    guidelines as our current portfolio. We regularly monitor our
    credit risk and attempt to mitigate our exposure by making high
    quality investments and by diversifying our investments. At
    December 31, 2009, the majority of our investment
    securities had credit ratings of “AA-” or better from
    a major credit rating agency. Despite those ratings, it is
    possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the
    future due to any number of factors, including general market
    conditions, credit issues, the viability of the issuer of the
    security, failure by a fund manager to manage the investment
    portfolio consistently with the fund prospectus or increases in
    interest rates. Any such decline in value may adversely affect
    our results of operations and financial condition.


 


    The trust holding the assets of our pension plans has assets
    totaling approximately $275.9 million as of
    December 31, 2009. The fair value of these assets held in
    the trust are compared to the plans’ projected benefit
    obligation to determine the pension liability of
    $124.2 million recorded within “Other
    liabilities” in our consolidated balance sheet as of
    December 31, 2009. We attempt to mitigate risk through
    diversification, and we regularly monitor investment risk on our
    portfolio through quarterly investment portfolio reviews and
    periodic asset and liability studies. Despite these measures, it
    is possible that the value of our portfolio may decline in the
    future due to any number of factors, including general market
    conditions and credit issues. Such declines could have an impact
    on the funded status of our pension plans and future funding
    requirements.


 



    We
    have substantial debt obligations that could restrict our
    operations.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    $3.0 billion in consolidated indebtedness, and we may also
    incur additional indebtedness in the future.


 


    Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including:


 




    
    
    



     
        •  

    
    limiting our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders;




 



     
        •  

    
    increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory
    and industry conditions;




 



     
        •  

    
    limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning
    for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry;




 



     
        •  

    
    limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and




 



     
        •  

    
    requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow
    from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds
    available for working capital, capital expenditures,
    acquisitions and other purposes.





 


    There would be adverse tax consequences associated with using
    certain earnings generated outside the United States to pay the
    interest and principal on our indebtedness. Accordingly, this
    portion of our cash flow will be unavailable under normal
    circumstances to service our debt obligations.




    
    30



Table of Contents






    Risks
    Relating to the Spin-Off


 


    We were incorporated in Delaware as a wholly-owned subsidiary of
    First Data on February 17, 2006. On September 29,
    2006, First Data distributed 100% of its money transfer and
    consumer payments businesses and its interest in a Western Union
    money transfer agent, as well as related assets, including real
    estate, through a tax-free distribution to First Data
    shareholders (“Spin-off”) through this previously
    owned subsidiary.


 



    If the
    Spin-off does not qualify as a tax-free transaction, First Data
    and its stockholders could be subject to material amounts of
    taxes and, in certain circumstances, we could be required to
    indemnify First Data for material taxes pursuant to
    indemnification obligations under the tax allocation
    agreement.


 


    First Data received a private letter ruling from the IRS to the
    effect that, the Spin-off (including certain related
    transactions) qualifies as tax-free to First Data, us and First
    Data stockholders for United States federal income tax purposes
    under sections 355, 368 and related provisions of the
    Internal Revenue Code, assuming, among other things, the
    accuracy of the representations made by First Data with respect
    to certain matters on which the IRS did not rule. If the factual
    assumptions or representations made in the private letter ruling
    request were determined to be untrue or incomplete, then First
    Data and ourselves would not be able to rely on the ruling.


 


    The Spin-off was conditioned upon First Data’s receipt of
    an opinion of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel to First Data, to the
    effect that, with respect to requirements on which the IRS did
    not rule, those requirements would be satisfied. The opinion was
    based on, among other things, certain assumptions and
    representations as to factual matters made by First Data and us
    which, if untrue or incomplete, would jeopardize the conclusions
    reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on
    the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or the courts may not agree
    with the opinion.


 


    If, notwithstanding receipt of the private letter ruling and
    opinion of tax counsel, the Spin-off were determined to be a
    taxable transaction, each holder of First Data common stock who
    received shares of our common stock in connection with the
    Spin-off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable
    distribution in an amount equal to the fair value of our common
    stock received. First Data would recognize taxable gain equal to
    the excess of the fair value of the consideration received by
    First Data in the contribution over First Data’s tax basis
    in the assets contributed to us in the contribution. If First
    Data were unable to pay any taxes for which it is responsible
    under the tax allocation agreement, the IRS might seek to
    collect such taxes from Western Union.


 


    Even if the Spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free
    distribution under section 355 of the Internal Revenue
    Code, the Spin-off may result in significant United States
    federal income tax liabilities to First Data if 50% or more of
    First Data’s stock or our stock (in each case, by vote or
    value) is treated as having been acquired, directly or
    indirectly, by one or more persons as part of a plan (or series
    of related transactions) that includes the Spin-off. For
    purposes of this test, any acquisitions, or any understanding,
    arrangement or substantial negotiations regarding an
    acquisition, within two years before or after the Spin-off are
    subject to special scrutiny.


 


    With respect to taxes and other liabilities that could be
    imposed as a result of a final determination that is
    inconsistent with the anticipated tax consequences of the
    Spin-off (as set forth in the private letter ruling and relevant
    tax opinion) (“Spin-off Related Taxes”), we, one of
    our affiliates or any person that, after the Spin-off, is an
    affiliate thereof, will be liable to First Data for any such
    Spin-off Related Taxes attributable solely to actions taken by
    or with respect to us. In addition, we will also be liable for
    50% of any Spin-off Related Taxes (i) that would not have
    been imposed but for the existence of both an action by us and
    an action by First Data or (ii) where we and First Data
    each take actions that, standing alone, would have resulted in
    the imposition of such Spin-off Related Taxes. We may be
    similarly liable if we breach certain representations or
    covenants set forth in the tax allocation agreement. If we are
    required to indemnify First Data for taxes incurred as a result
    of the Spin-off being taxable to First Data, it likely would
    have an adverse effect on our business, financial position,
    results of operations and cash flows.




    
    31



Table of Contents








    
    



    
    ITEM 1B