ITEM 1A.  RISK
    FACTORS


 


    Before you invest in our securities you should carefully
    consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other
    information provided in this report. We believe that the
    following information identifies the most significant risk
    factors affecting us. However, the risks and uncertainties we
    face are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors
    described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
    immaterial may also adversely affect our business. In addition,
    past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of
    future performance and historical trends should not be used to
    anticipate results or trends in future periods.


 


    If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into
    actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
    In such case, the trading price of our common stock could
    decline.


 



    The
    hospitality industry is highly competitive and we are subject to
    risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our
    performance.


 


    We will be adversely impacted if we cannot compete effectively
    in the highly competitive hospitality industry. Our continued
    success depends upon our ability to compete effectively in
    markets that contain numerous competitors, some of which may
    have significantly greater financial, marketing and other
    resources than we have. Competition may reduce fee structures,
    potentially causing us to lower our fees or prices, which may
    adversely impact our profits. New competition or existing
    competition that uses a business model that is different from
    our business model may put pressure on us to change our model so
    that we can remain competitive.


 



    Our
    revenues are highly dependent on the travel industry and
    declines in or disruptions to the travel industry, such as those
    caused by economic slowdown, terrorism, acts of God and war, may
    adversely affect us.


 


    Declines in or disruptions to the travel industry may adversely
    impact us. Risks affecting the travel industry include: economic
    slowdown and recession, economic factors adversely impacting
    consumers’ decisions to use and consume leisure travel
    services and products, terrorist incidents and threats (and
    associated heightened travel security measures), acts of God
    (such as earthquakes, hurricanes, fires, floods and other
    natural disasters), war, bird flu and other pandemics, financial
    instability of air carriers, airline job actions and strikes,
    and increases in gas and other fuel prices.


 



    We are
    subject to operating or other risks common to the hospitality
    industry.


 


    Our business is subject to numerous operating or other risks
    common to the hospitality industry including:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        changes in operating costs, including energy, labor costs
    (including minimum wage increases and unionization),
    workers’ compensation and health-care related costs and
    insurance;




 



        •       
    

        changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or
    resorts in our business;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the supply and demand for hotel rooms, vacation
    exchange and rental services and vacation ownership products and
    services;




 



        •       
    

        seasonality in our businesses may cause fluctuations in our
    operating results;




 



        •       
    

        geographic concentrations of our operations and customers;




 



        •       
    

        increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset
    by price and fee increases in our business;




 



        •       
    

        availability and cost of capital;




 



        •       
    

        the risk that purchasers of vacation ownership interests who
    finance a portion of the purchase price default on their loans
    due to adverse macro or personal economic conditions or
    otherwise; that if such defaults occur during the early part of
    the loan amortization period we will not have recovered the
    marketing, selling, administrative and other costs associated
    with such vacation ownership interest; such costs will be
    incurred again in connection with the resale of the repossessed
    vacation ownership interest; and the value we recover in a
    default is not, in all instances, sufficient to cover the
    outstanding debt;






    
    32



Table of Contents






    
    



        •       
    

        the quality of the services provided by franchisees, our
    vacation exchange and rentals business, resorts with units that
    are exchanged through our vacation exchange business
    and/or
    resorts in which we sell vacation ownership interests may
    adversely affect our image and reputation;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to generate sufficient cash to buy from third-party
    suppliers the products that we need to provide to the
    participants in our points programs who want to redeem points
    for such products;




 



        •       
    

        overbuilding in one or more segments of the hospitality industry
    and/or in
    one or more geographic regions;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the number and occupancy rates of hotels operating
    under franchise and management agreements;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the relative mix of franchised hotels in the various
    lodging industry price categories;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to develop and maintain positive relations and
    contractual arrangements with current and potential franchisees,
    hotel owners, resorts with units that are exchanged through our
    vacation exchange business
    and/or
    owners of vacation properties that our vacation rentals business
    markets for rental;




 



        •       
    

        the availability of and competition for desirable sites for the
    development of vacation ownership properties, difficulties
    associated with obtaining entitlements to develop vacation
    ownership properties and liability under state and local laws
    with respect to any construction defects in the vacation
    ownership properties we develop and our ability to maintain our
    pace of completion of resort development relative to the pace of
    our sales of the underlying vacation ownership interests;




 



        •       
    

        private resale of vacation ownership interests could adversely
    affect our vacation ownership resorts and vacation exchange
    businesses;




 



        •       
    

        revenues from our lodging business are indirectly affected by
    our franchisees’ pricing decisions;




 



        •       
    

        organized labor activities and associated litigation;




 



        •       
    

        maintenance, infringement or unavailability of our intellectual
    property;




 



        •       
    

        taxation of guest loyalty program benefits that adversely
    affects the cost or consumer acceptance of loyalty programs; and




 



        •       
    

        disruptions in relationships with third parties, including
    marketing alliances and affiliations with
    e-commerce
    channels.





 



    We may
    not be able to achieve our growth objectives.


 


    We may not be able to achieve our objectives for increasing the
    number of franchised
    and/or
    managed properties in our lodging business, the number of
    vacation exchange members acquired by our vacation exchange
    business, the number of rental weeks sold by our vacation
    rentals business and the number of tours generated and vacation
    ownership interests sold by our vacation ownership business.


 


    We may be unable to identify acquisition targets that complement
    our businesses, and if we are able to identify suitable
    acquisition targets, we may not be able to complete acquisitions
    on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to complete
    acquisitions depends on a variety of factors, including our
    ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and requisite
    government approvals. If we are able to complete acquisitions,
    there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve the
    revenue and cost benefits that we expected in connection with
    such acquisitions or to successfully integrate the acquired
    businesses into our existing operations.


 



    Our
    international operations are subject to risks not generally
    applicable to our domestic operations.


 


    Our international operations are subject to numerous risks
    including: exposure to local economic conditions; potential
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the United States; hostility from local populations;
    restrictions and taxes on the withdrawal of foreign investment
    and earnings; government policies against businesses owned by
    foreigners; investment restrictions or requirements; diminished
    ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign
    countries; foreign exchange restrictions; fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates;



    
    33



Table of Contents




    local laws might conflict with U.S. laws; withholding and
    other taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries;
    and changes in and application of foreign taxation structures
    including value added taxes.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to litigation filed by or against
    us.


 


    We are subject to a number of legal actions and the risk of
    future litigation as described below under “Legal
    Proceedings”. We cannot predict with certainty the ultimate
    outcome and related damages and costs of litigation and other
    proceedings filed by or against us. Adverse results in
    litigation and other proceedings may harm our business.


 



    We are
    subject to certain risks related to our indebtedness, our
    securitization of assets, the cost and availability of capital
    and the extension of credit by us.


 


    We are a borrower of funds under our credit facilities, credit
    lines, senior notes and securitization financings. We are a
    lender of funds when we finance purchases of vacation ownership
    interests. In connection with our debt obligations, the
    securitization of certain of our assets and the extension of
    credit by us, we are subject to numerous risks including:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        our cash flows from operations or available lines of credit may
    be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and
    interest;




 



        •       
    

        our leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain
    additional financing;




 



        •       
    

        our leverage requires the dedication of a significant portion of
    our cash flows to the payment of principal and interest thus
    reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital,
    capital expenditures or other operating needs;




 



        •       
    

        increases in interest rates;




 



        •       
    

        rating agency downgrades for our debt that could increase our
    borrowing costs;




 



        •       
    

        we may not be able to securitize our vacation ownership contract
    receivables because of, among other factors, the performance of
    the vacation ownership contract receivables, adverse conditions
    in the market for vacation ownership loan-backed notes and
    asset-backed notes in general, the ability to insure the
    securitized vacation ownership contract receivables, and the
    risk that the actual amount of uncollectible accounts on our
    securitized vacation ownership contract receivables and other
    credit we extend is greater than our allowances for doubtful
    accounts;




 



        •       
    

        prohibitive cost and inadequate availability of capital could
    restrict the development or acquisition of vacation ownership
    resorts by us, the financing of purchases of vacation ownership
    interests and the renovation and maintenance of properties by
    vacation ownership resorts; and




 



        •       
    

        if interest rates increase significantly, we may not be able to
    increase the interest rate offered to finance purchases of
    vacation ownership interests by the same amount of the increase.





 



    Several
    of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the
    cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations
    may adversely affect us.


 


    Our businesses are heavily regulated by the states or provinces
    (including local governments) and countries in which our
    operations are conducted. In addition, domestic and foreign
    federal, state and local regulators may enact new laws and
    regulations that may reduce our revenues, cause our expenses to
    increase
    and/or
    require us to modify substantially our business practices. If we
    are not in substantial compliance with applicable laws and
    regulations, including, among others, franchising, timeshare,
    lending, privacy, marketing and sales, telemarketing, licensing,
    labor, employment and immigration, gaming, environmental and
    regulations applicable under the Office of Foreign Asset Control
    and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, we may be subject to
    regulatory actions, fines, penalties and potential criminal
    prosecution.


 


    Due to 2007 revisions to the rules of the Federal Trade
    Commission relating to registration of franchisors and their
    offering documents, certain of our hotel brands will be required
    to obtain registration approvals for their franchise disclosure
    documents in approximately 13 states. As a result of the
    expected significant back log of state



    
    34



Table of Contents




    regulatory review of these documents along with filings made by
    other franchisors, we may be unable to market and sell new
    franchises in these states for an extended period of time,
    negatively impacting our franchise sales.


 



    We are
    dependent on our senior management.


 


    We believe that our future growth depends, in part, on the
    continued services of our senior management team. Losing the
    services of any members of our senior management team could
    adversely affect our strategic and customer relationships and
    impede our ability to execute our growth strategies.


 



    The
    weakening or unavailability of our intellectual property could
    adversely affect our business.


 


    The weakening or unavailability of our trademarks, trade dress
    and other intellectual property rights could adversely affect
    our business. We generate, maintain, utilize and enforce a
    substantial portfolio of trademarks, trade dress and other
    intellectual property that are fundamental to the brands that we
    use in all of our businesses. There can be no assurance that the
    steps we take to protect our intellectual property will be
    adequate.


 



    Disruptions
    and other impairment of our information technologies and systems
    could adversely affect our business.


 


    Any disaster, disruption or other impairment in our technology
    capabilities could harm our business. Our businesses depend upon
    the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems,
    including technology and systems utilized for reservation
    systems, vacation exchange systems, property management,
    communications, procurement, member record databases, call
    centers, operation of our loyalty programs and administrative
    systems. The operation, maintenance and updating of these
    technologies and systems is dependent upon third-party
    technologies, systems and services for which there is no
    assurance of uninterrupted availability.


 



    The
    market price of our shares may fluctuate.


 


    The market price of our common stock may fluctuate depending
    upon many factors some of which may be beyond our control,
    including: our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other
    companies in our industry; actual or anticipated fluctuations in
    our operating results due to seasonality and other factors
    related to our business; changes in accounting principles or
    rules; announcements by us or our competitors of significant
    acquisitions or dispositions; the failure of securities analysts
    to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by
    securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the
    operating and stock price performance of other comparable
    companies; overall market fluctuations; and general economic
    conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility
    that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a
    particular company. These broad market fluctuations may
    adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.


 



    Your
    percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in the
    future.


 


    Your percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in
    the future because of equity awards that we expect will be
    granted over time to our directors, officers and employees as
    well as due to the exercise of options issued. In addition, our
    Board may issue shares of common and preferred stock up to
    certain regulatory thresholds without shareholder approval.


 



    Provisions
    in our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, stockholder rights
    plan and under Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition
    of our company, which could impact the trading price of our
    common stock.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, stockholder rights
    plan and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to
    deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids
    by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive and to
    encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our Board
    rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions
    include, among others: a Board of Directors that is divided into
    three classes with staggered terms; elimination of the right of
    our stockholders to act by written consent; rules regarding how
    stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for
    election at stockholder meetings; the right of our Board to
    issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and
    limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors.
    Under our stockholder rights plan, our Board may issue shares of
    stock at a discount to market if a person or group attempts to
    acquire us on terms not approved by our Board. Unless our Board
    takes prior action, our stockholder rights plan will expire on
    April 24, 2008. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions
    on mergers and other business combinations between us and any
    holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.



    
    35



Table of Contents





    We cannot
    provide assurance that we will continue to pay
    dividends.


 


    There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus
    under Delaware law to be able to continue to pay dividends. This
    may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses
    exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures,
    or increases in reserves. If we do not pay dividends, the price
    of our common stock must appreciate for you to receive a gain on
    your investment in Wyndham Worldwide. This appreciation may not
    occur.


 



    We are
    responsible for certain of Cendant’s contingent and other
    corporate liabilities.


 


    Under the separation agreements we executed with Cendant (now
    Avis Budget Group) and former Cendant units, Realogy and
    Travelport, we and Realogy are responsible for 37.5% and 62.5%,
    respectively, of certain of Cendant’s contingent and other
    corporate liabilities including those relating to unresolved tax
    and legal matters and associated costs. We generally are
    responsible for the payment of our share of all taxes imposed on
    Cendant and certain other subsidiaries and certain contingent
    and other corporate liabilities of Cendant
    and/or its
    subsidiaries to the extent incurred on or prior to
    August 23, 2006, including liabilities relating to certain
    of Cendant’s terminated or divested businesses, liabilities
    relating to the Travelport sale, the Cendant litigation
    described below under “Cendant Litigation,” generally
    any actions with respect to the separation plan and payments
    under certain contracts that were not allocated to any specific
    party in connection with the separation.


 


    If any party responsible for these liabilities were to default
    on its obligations, each non-defaulting party (including Avis
    Budget) would be required to pay an equal portion of the amounts
    in default. Accordingly, we may, under certain circumstances, be
    obligated to pay amounts in excess of our share of the assumed
    obligations related to such contingent and other corporate
    liabilities including associated costs. On or about
    April 10, 2007, Realogy Corporation was acquired by
    affiliates of Apollo Management VI, L.P. and no longer trades
    its common stock as an independent public company. The
    acquisition does not negate Realogy’s obligation to satisfy
    62.5% of such contingent and other corporate liabilities of
    Cendant or its subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of the
    separation agreement. As a result of the acquisition, however,
    Realogy has greater debt obligations and its ability to satisfy
    its portion of these liabilities may be adversely impacted.


 



    ITEM 1B