Item 1A of this report. We
    caution readers that any such statements are based on currently
    available operational, financial and competitive information,
    and they should not place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s
    opinion only as of the date on which they were made. Except as
    required by law, we disclaim any obligation to review or update
    these forward-looking statements to reflect events or
    circumstances as they occur.


 



    WHERE YOU
    CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION


 


    We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements
    and other information with the SEC. Our SEC filings are
    available to the public over the Internet at the SEC’s
    website at
    http://www.sec.gov.
    Our SEC filings are also available on our website at
    http://www.WyndhamWorldwide.com
    as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or
    furnished to the SEC. You may also read and copy any filed
    document at the SEC’s public reference room in
    Washington, D.C. at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330
    for further information about public reference rooms.


 


    We maintain an Internet site at
    http://www.WyndhamWorldwide.com.
    Our website and the information contained on or connected to
    that site are not incorporated into this Annual Report.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS





 



    OVERVIEW


 


    As one of the world’s largest hospitality companies, we
    offer individual consumers and business customers a broad array
    of hospitality services and products across various
    accommodation alternatives and price ranges through our
    portfolio of world-renowned brands. The hospitality industry is
    a major component of the travel industry, which is one of the
    largest retail industry segments of the global economy. Our
    operations are grouped into three segments of the hospitality
    industry: lodging, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation
    ownership. With more than 20 brands, which include Wyndham
    Hotels and Resorts, Ramada, Days Inn, Super 8, Howard Johnson,
    Wyndham Rewards, Wingate by Wyndham, Microtel, RCI, The Registry
    Collection, ResortQuest, Landal GreenParks, Novasol, Hoseasons,
    cottages4you, James Villa Holidays, Wyndham Vacation Resorts and
    WorldMark by Wyndham, we have built a significant presence in
    most major hospitality markets in the U.S. and throughout
    the rest of the world.


 


    Approximately 60% of our revenues come from fees that we receive
    in exchange for providing services. We refer to the businesses
    that generate these fees as our “fee-for-service”
    businesses. We receive fees: (i) in the form of royalties
    for use of our brand names; (ii) for providing hotel and
    resort management services; (iii) for providing property
    management services to vacation ownership resorts; (iv) for
    providing vacation exchange and rentals services; and
    (v) for providing services under our Wyndham Asset
    Affiliation Model (“WAAM”). The remainder of our
    revenues comes primarily from proceeds received from the sale of
    vacation ownership interests and related financing.


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Our lodging business, Wyndham Hotel Group, is the world’s
    largest hotel company based on the number of properties,
    franchising in the upscale, midscale, economy and extended stay
    segments of the lodging industry and providing hotel management
    services globally for full-service hotels. This is predominantly
    a fee-for-service business that provides recurring revenue
    streams, requires low capital investment and produces strong
    cash flow.




 



        •       
    

        Our vacation exchange and rentals business, Wyndham
    Exchange & Rentals, is the world’s largest
    member-based vacation exchange network based on the number of
    vacation exchange members and the world’s largest global
    marketer of serviced vacation rental properties based on the
    number of vacation rental properties marketed. Through this
    business, we provide vacation exchange services and products and
    access to distribution systems and networks to resort developers
    and owners of intervals of vacation ownership interests, and we
    market vacation rental properties primarily on behalf of
    independent








    
    1



Table of Contents







    
    



    
    
    owners, vacation ownership developers and other hospitality
    providers. This is primarily a fee-for-service business that
    provides stable revenue streams, requires low capital investment
    and produces strong cash flow.





 




    
    



        •       
    
    
    Our vacation ownership business, Wyndham Vacation Ownership, is
    the world’s largest vacation ownership business based on
    the number of resorts, units, owners and revenues. Through our
    vacation ownership business, we develop and market vacation
    ownership interests to individual consumers, provide consumer
    financing in connection with the sale of vacation ownership
    interests and provide property management services at resorts.
    While the vacation ownership business has historically been
    capital intensive, a central strategy for Wyndham Worldwide is
    to leverage our scale and marketing expertise to pursue
    low-capital requirement, fee-for-service business relationships
    that produce strong cash flow. In 2010, we introduced our WAAM
    which offers turn-key solutions for developers or banks in
    possession of newly developed inventory, which we sell for a fee
    through our extensive sales and marketing channels.





 


    Our mission is to increase shareholder value by being the leader
    in travel accommodations and welcoming our guests to iconic
    brands and vacation destinations through our signature
    “Count On Me!” service. Our strategies to achieve
    these objectives are to:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Increase market share by delivering excellent service to drive
    business customer, individual consumer and associate
    satisfaction.




 



        •       
    

        Grow cash flow and operating margins through superior execution
    in all of our businesses.




 



        •       
    

        Rebalance the Wyndham Worldwide portfolio to emphasize our
    fee-for-service business models.




 



        •       
    

        Attract, retain and develop human capital across our
    organization.




 



        •       
    

        Support and promote Wyndham Green and Wyndham Diversity
    initiatives.





 


    We strive to provide value-added services and products that are
    intended to both enhance the travel experience of the individual
    consumer and drive revenues to our business customers. The depth
    and breadth of our businesses across different segments of the
    hospitality industry provide us with the opportunity to expand
    our relationships with our existing individual and business
    customers in one or more segments of our business by offering
    them additional or alternative services and products from our
    other segments.


 


    We expect to generate annual net cash provided by operating
    activities less capital expenditures, equity investments and
    development advances in the range of approximately
    $600 million to $700 million annually beginning in
    2011. This cash flow is expected to be utilized for
    acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends.


 


    Our lodging, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation
    ownership businesses all have both domestic and international
    operations. During 2010, we derived 74% of our revenues in the
    U.S. and 26% internationally. For a discussion of our
    segment revenues, profits, assets and geographical operations,
    see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
    included in this Annual Report.


 



    History
    and Development


 


    Wyndham Worldwide’s corporate history can be traced back to
    the 1990 formation of Hospitality Franchise Systems (which
    changed its name to HFS Incorporated or HFS). HFS initially
    began as a hotel franchisor that later expanded its hospitality
    business and became a major real estate and car rental
    franchisor. In December 1997, HFS merged with CUC International,
    Inc., or CUC, to form Cendant Corporation (which changed
    its name to Avis Budget Group, Inc. in September 2006).


 


    In October 2005, Cendant determined to separate Cendant through
    spin-offs into four separate companies, including a spin-off of
    its Hospitality Services businesses to be re-named Wyndham
    Worldwide Corporation. During July 2006, Cendant transferred to
    its subsidiary, Wyndham Worldwide Corporation, all of the assets
    and liabilities of Cendant’s Hospitality Services
    businesses and on July 31, 2006, Cendant distributed all of
    the shares of Wyndham Worldwide common stock to the holders of
    Cendant common stock issued and outstanding on July 21,
    2006, the record date for the distribution. The separation was
    effective on July 31, 2006. On August 1, 2006, we
    commenced “regular way” trading on the New York Stock
    Exchange under the symbol “WYN.”


 


    Each of our lodging, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation
    ownership businesses has a long operating history. Our lodging
    business began with the Howard Johnson and Ramada brands which
    opened their first hotels in 1954. RCI, our vacation exchange
    business, was established 37 years ago, and we have
    acquired and grown some of the world’s most renowned
    vacation rentals brands with histories starting as early as
    Hoseasons in 1940, Landal GreenParks in 1954 and Novasol in
    1968. Our vacation ownership brands, Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    and WorldMark by Wyndham, began vacation ownership operations in
    1980 and 1989, respectively.




    
    2



Table of Contents





    Our portfolio of well-known hospitality brands was assembled
    over the past twenty years. The following is a timeline of our
    significant brand acquisitions:


 




    
    
    



     
        1990: 

    
    Howard Johnson and Ramada (US)




     
        1992: 

    
    Days Inn




     
        1993: 

    
    Super 8




     
        1995: 

    
    Knights Inn




     
        1996: 

    
    Travelodge North America
    Resort Condominiums International (RCI)




     
        2001: 

    
    Cuendet
    Holiday Cottages Group
    Fairfield Resorts (now Wyndham Vacation Resorts)




     
        2002: 

    
    Novasol
    Trendwest Resorts (now WorldMark by Wyndham)




     
        2004: 

    
    Ramada International
    Landal GreenParks




     
        2005: 

    
    Wyndham Hotels and Resorts




     
        2006: 

    
    Baymont




     
        2008: 

    
    Microtel Inn & Suites and Hawthorn Suites




     
        2010: 

    
    Hoseasons
    Tryp
    ResortQuest
    James Villa Holidays





 


    The following is a description of the business of each of our
    three business units, Wyndham Hotel Group, Wyndham
    Exchange & Rentals and Wyndham Vacation Ownership and
    the industries in which they compete.


 



    WYNDHAM
    HOTEL GROUP


 



    Lodging
    Industry


 


    The global lodging market consists of over 140,000 hotels with
    combined annual revenues over $312 billion, or
    $2.2 million per hotel. The market is geographically
    concentrated with the top 20 countries accounting for over 80%
    of global rooms.


 


    Companies in the lodging industry operate primarily under one of
    the following business models:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Franchise—Under the franchise model, a company
    typically grants the use of a brand name to owners of hotels
    that the company neither owns nor manages in exchange for
    royalty fees that are typically equal to a percentage of room
    sales. Since the royalty fees are a recurring revenue stream and
    the cost structure is relatively low, the franchise model yields
    high margins and steady, predictable cash flows. During 2010,
    approximately 70% of the available hotel rooms in the
    U.S. were affiliated with a brand compared to only 40% in
    each of Europe and the Asia Pacific region.




 



        •       
    

        Management—Under the management model, a company
    provides professional oversight and comprehensive operations
    support to lodging properties that it owns
    and/or
    lodging properties owned by a third party in exchange for
    management fees, that are typically equal to a percentage of
    hotel revenue, which may also include incentive fees based on
    the financial performance of the properties.




 



        •       
    

        Ownership—Under the ownership model, a company owns
    hotel properties and benefits financially from hotel revenues,
    earnings and appreciation in the value of the property.





 


    Performance in the lodging industry is measured by the following
    key metrics:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        average daily rate, or ADR;




 



        •       
    

        average occupancy rate, or occupancy;




 



        •       
    

        revenue per available room, or RevPAR, which is calculated by
    multiplying ADR by the average occupancy rate; and




 



        •       
    

        new room additions.





 


    Demand in the global lodging industry is driven by, among other
    factors, business and leisure travel, both of which are
    significantly affected by the health of the economy. In a
    prosperous economy, demand is typically high, which leads to
    higher occupancy levels and permits increases in room rates.
    This cycle continues and ultimately spurs new hotel development.
    In a poor economy, demand deteriorates, which leads to lower
    occupancy levels and reduced rates. Demand outside the
    U.S. is also affected by demographics, airfare, trade and
    tourism, affluence and the freedom to travel.




    
    3



Table of Contents





    The U.S. is the most dominant sector of the global lodging
    market with over 30% of global room revenues. The
    U.S. lodging industry consists of over 51,000 hotels with
    combined annual revenues of over $99 billion, or
    $1.9 million per hotel. There are approximately
    4.8 million guest rooms at these hotels, of which
    3.4 million rooms are affiliated with a hotel chain. The
    following table displays trends in the key performance metrics
    for the U.S. lodging industry over the last six years and
    for 2011 (estimate):


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Change in




    Year


 


    Occupancy


 


    ADR


 


    RevPAR*


 


    Occupancy


 


    ADR


 


    RevPAR *



 






    2005



 


 


    63.0%


 


    $91.05


 


    $57.36


 


 


    2.8 %


 


 


    5.6 %


 


 


    8.6 %





    2006



 


 


    63.1%


 


    97.98


 


    61.86


 


 


    0.2 %


 


 


    7.6 %


 


 


    7.8 %





    2007



 


 


    62.8%


 


    104.26


 


    65.49


 


 


    (0.5)%


 


 


    6.4 %


 


 


    5.9 %





    2008



 


 


    59.8%


 


    107.30


 


    64.13


 


 


    (4.9)%


 


 


    2.9 %


 


 


    (2.1)%





    2009



 


 


    54.5%


 


    98.17


 


    53.49


 


 


    (8.8)%


 


 


    (8.5)%


 


 


    (16.6)%





    2010



 


 


    57.6%


 


    98.08


 


    56.46


 


 


    5.7 %


 


 


    (0.1)%


 


 


    5.6 %





    2011E



 


 


    59.0%


 


    103.08


 


    60.84


 


 


    2.5 %


 


 


    5.1 %


 


 


    7.8 %










 

 




    
    
    



    
    *:
    
    
    
     RevPAR may not recalculate by
    multiplying occupancy by ADR due to rounding
    





    Sources: Smith
    Travel Research Global (“STR”) (2005 to 2010);
    PricewaterhouseCoopers (“PWC”) (2011). 2011 data is as
    of January 2011.
    


 


    The following table depicts trends in revenues and new rooms
    added on a yearly basis for the U.S. lodging industry over
    the last six years and for 2011 (estimate):


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Revenues
    


 


    New Rooms
    


 


    Changes in




    Year


 


    ($bn)


 


    (000s)


 


    Revenues


 


    New Rooms



 






    2005



 


    $


    122.6


 


 


    83.4


 


 


    7.9 %


 


 


    2.6 %





    2006



 


 


    133.3


 


 


    138.9


 


 


    8.8 %


 


 


    66.5 %





    2007



 


 


    139.4


 


 


    146.0


 


 


    4.5 %


 


 


    5.1 %





    2008



 


 


    140.3


 


 


    132.5


 


 


    0.7 %


 


 


    (9.2)%





    2009



 


 


    127.2


 


 


    47.8


 


 


    (9.4)%


 


 


    (63.9)%





    2010



 


 


    136.9


 


 


    29.0


 


 


    7.7 %


 


 


    (39.3)%





    2011E



 


 


    n/a


 


 


    49.9


 


 


    n/a 


 


 


    72.0 %











     Sources:
    STR (2005 to 2010); PWC (2011). 2011 data is estimated and
    reflects data as of November 14, 2010.
    


 


    The U.S. lodging industry experienced positive RevPAR
    performance over the last year and is expected to continue to
    grow in 2011, resulting from improving economic conditions. The
    return of business travelers has made a significant contribution
    to the recovery of lodging demand with major markets
    experiencing the most significant gains. In addition,
    decelerating supply growth resulting from lags in the new
    construction pipeline also contributed to occupancy gains in
    2010. The steepest declines in ADR occurred throughout 2009 and
    stabilized in the second quarter of 2010. As a result of these
    occupancy gains and ADR stabilization, the U.S. lodging
    industry experienced positive RevPAR growth in the second
    quarter of 2010 for the first time in eight consecutive
    quarters. It is expected that U.S hotel demand will increase
    3.3% in 2011 and as a result, it is anticipated that ADR will
    increase across all segments as well. Beyond 2011, certain
    industry experts project RevPAR in the U.S. to grow at a
    7.3% compounded annual growth rate (“CAGR”) over the
    next three years
    (2012-2014).


 


    Performance in the U.S. lodging industry is evaluated based
    upon chain scale segments, which are defined as follows:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Luxury—typically offers first class appointments and
    a full range of on-property amenities and services, including
    restaurants, spas, recreational facilities, business centers,
    concierges, room service and local transportation (shuttle
    service to airport
    and/or local
    attractions).




 



        •       
    

        Upscale—typically offers a full range of on-property
    amenities and services, including restaurants, spas,
    recreational facilities, business centers, concierges, room
    service and local transportation (shuttle service to airport
    and/or local
    attractions).




 



        •       
    

        Midscale—typically offers restaurants
    (“midscale with food and beverage”) or limited
    breakfast service (“midscale without food and
    beverage”), vending, selected business services, partial
    recreational facilities (either a pool or fitness equipment) and
    limited transportation (airport shuttle).




 



        •       
    

        Economy—typically offers a limited breakfast and
    airport shuttle.





 


    These chain scale segments are expected to change in 2011. The
    new categories by which the U.S. lodging industry will be
    evaluated in 2011 and beyond will be: luxury,
    upper-upscale,
    upscale, upper-midscale, midscale and economy.




    
    4



Table of Contents





    The following table sets forth the expected key metrics for each
    chain scale segment and associated sub-segments within the
    U.S. for 2010 as currently defined by STR:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


    Change in




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Room
    


 


 


 


 


 


 




     Segment


 


    ADR


 


    Demand


 


    Supply


 


    Occupancy


 


    ADR


 


    RevPAR



 






    Luxury



 


    Greater than $210


 


 


    11.6%


 


 


    3.5 %


 


 


    7.8%


 


 


    2.1%


 


 


    10.1%





    Upper upscale



 


    $125 to $210


 


 


    8.5%


 


 


    2.0 %


 


 


    6.4%


 


 


    (0.6)%


 


 


    5.7%





    Upscale



 


    $95 to $125


 


 


    14.2%


 


 


    6.4 %


 


 


    7.3%


 


 


    (1.5)%


 


 


    5.7%





    Midscale with
    food-and-beverage



 


    $65 to $95


 


 


    3.5%


 


 


    (0.8)%


 


 


    4.4%


 


 


    (1.0)%


 


 


    3.3%





    Midscale without
    food-and-beverage



 


    $65 to $95


 


 


    9.2%


 


 


    3.9 %


 


 


    5.2%


 


 


    (0.8)%


 


 


    4.3%





    Economy



 


    Less than $65


 


 


    5.3%


 


 


    0.2 %


 


 


    5.1%


 


 


    (3.1)%


 


 


    1.9%





    Total



 


 


 


 


    7.7%


 


 


    2.0 %


 


 


    5.7%


 


 


    (0.1)%


 


 


    5.6%











     Source: STR
    


 


    The European lodging industry consists of over 50,000 hotels
    with combined annual revenues over $117 billion, or
    $2.3 million per hotel. There are approximately
    3.8 million guest rooms at these hotels, of which
    1.6 million rooms are affiliated with a hotel chain. The
    Asia Pacific lodging industry consists of over 18,000 hotels
    with combined annual revenues of approximately $80 billion,
    or $4.3 million per hotel. There are approximately
    2.5 million guest rooms at these hotels, of which over
    940,000 are affiliated with a hotel chain. The following table
    displays changes in the key performance metrics for the European
    and Asia Pacific lodging industry during 2010 as compared to
    2009:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Change in




 


 


 


 


    Room
    


 


 


 


 


 


 




    Region


 


    Demand


 


    Supply


 


    Occupancy


 


    ADR


 


    RevPAR



 






    Europe



 


 


    6.4%


 


 


    1.1%


 


 


    5.2%


 


 


    (1.8)%


 


 


    3.3%





    Asia Pacific



 


 


    12.0%


 


 


    2.8%


 


 


    8.9%


 


 


    11.4%


 


 


    21.3%











     Source: STR
    


 



    Wyndham
    Hotel Group Overview


 


    Our lodging business, Wyndham Hotel Group, is the world’s
    largest hotel company (based on number of properties) with one
    of the industry’s largest loyalty programs, Wyndham
    Rewards. Over 88% of Wyndham Hotel Group’s revenues are
    derived from franchising activities. Wyndham Hotel Group
    generally does not own any hotels. Therefore, its business model
    is easily adaptable to changing economic environments due to low
    operating cost structures, which in combination with recurring
    fee streams yield high margins and predictable cash flows.
    Capital requirements are relatively low and mostly limited to
    technology expenditures to support core capabilities, and any
    incentives we may employ to generate new business, such as key
    money and development advance notes to assist franchisees and
    hotel owners in converting to one of our brands or building a
    new hotel branded under a Wyndham Hotel Group brand.


 


    Wyndham Hotel Group comprises the following 15 brands, with
    approximately 7,210 hotels representing over 612,700 rooms on
    six continents and over 900 hotels representing approximately
    102,700 rooms in the development pipeline as of
    December 31, 2010. Wyndham Hotel Group franchises in most
    segments of the industry and provides management services
    globally for full-service hotels. The following describes these
    15 widely-known lodging brands:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Days
    Inn®

    is a leading global brand in the economy segment with more
    guest rooms than any other economy brand in the world with over
    1,875 properties worldwide. Under its ‘A Promise As Sure As
    the Sun’ service culture, Days Inn
    hotels®

    offer value-conscious consumers free high-speed internet,
    upgraded bath amenities and the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program.
    Most hotels also offer free
    Daybreak®

    breakfast, restaurants and meeting rooms.




 



        •       
    

        Super 8
    Worldwide®

    is a leading global brand in the economy segment with almost
    2,175 properties in the U.S., Canada and China. Super 8 has
    recently launched a brand refresh with new interior and exterior
    design programs. Under its “8 point promise” service
    culture, Super 8 hotels offer complimentary
    SuperStart®

    breakfast, free high speed internet access, upgraded bath
    amenities, free in-room coffee, kids under 17 stay free and free
    premium cable or satellite TV as well as the Wyndham Rewards
    loyalty program.




 



        •       
    

        Microtel Inns &
    Suites®

    is an award winning economy chain of over 315 properties
    predominantly located throughout North America. For nine
    consecutive years, the brand has been ranked highest in








    
    5



Table of Contents







    
    



    
    
    Overall Guest Satisfaction in its category by J.D. Power and
    Associates, a distinction that no other company in any industry
    has achieved. Microtel is also the only prototypical, all
    new-construction brand in the economy segment. For guests, this
    means a consistent experience featuring award-winning
    contemporary guest rooms and public area designs. For
    developers, Microtel provides hotel operators low cost of
    construction combined with support and guidance from ground
    break to grand opening as well as low cost of ongoing
    operations. Positioned in the upper-end of the economy segment,
    all properties offer complimentary continental breakfast, free
    wired and wireless internet access, free local and long distance
    calls and the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program.





 




    
    



        •       
    

        Howard
    Johnson®

    is an iconic American hotel brand having pioneered hotel
    franchising in 1954. Today, Howard Johnson has almost 475 hotels
    in North America, Latin America, Asia and other international
    markets. In North America, the brand operates in the midscale
    and economy segments while internationally the brand includes
    mid-scale and upscale hotels. The Howard Johnson brand targets
    families and leisure travelers, providing complimentary
    continental “Rise and
    Dine®”

    breakfast and high-speed internet access as well as the Wyndham
    Rewards loyalty program.




 



        •       
    

        Travelodge®

    is a hotel chain with over 435 properties located across
    North America. The brand operates primarily in the economy
    segment in the U.S. and in the midscale with food and
    beverage segment in Canada. Using its “Sleepy Bear”
    brand ambassador, Travelodge targets leisure travelers with a
    focus on those who prefer an active lifestyle of outdoor
    activity and offers guests complimentary Bear
    Bites®

    continental breakfast and free high-speed internet access as
    well as the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program.




 



        •       
    

        Knights
    Inn®

    is a budget economy hotel chain with over 335 locations
    across North America. Knights Inn hotels provide basic overnight
    accommodations and complimentary breakfast for an affordable
    price as well as the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program. For
    operators, from first time owners to experienced hoteliers, the
    brand provides a lower cost of entry and competitive terms while
    still providing the extensive tools, systems and resources of
    the Wyndham Hotel Group.




 



        •       
    

        Ramada
    Worldwide®

    is a global midscale with food and beverage hotel chain with
    nearly 900 properties located in 53 countries worldwide. Under
    its “Do Your Thing, Leave the Rest to Us,” marketing
    foundation and supported by the “I AM” service
    culture, most Ramada hotels feature free wireless high-speed
    internet access, meeting rooms, business services, fitness
    facilities, upgraded bath amenities and the Wyndham Rewards
    loyalty program. Most properties have an
    on-site
    restaurant/lounge, while other sites offer a complimentary
    continental breakfast with food available in the Ramada Mart.




 



        •       
    

        Baymont Inn &
    Suites®

    is a midscale without food and beverage hotel chain with
    over 260 properties located across North America. The
    brand’s commitment to providing ‘hometown
    hospitality’ means guests are offered fresh baked cookies,
    complimentary breakfast and high-speed internet access as well
    as the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program. Most hotels also offer
    swimming pools and fitness centers.




 



        •       
    

        Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts®

    Family of Brands is a collection of brands, including our
    flagship Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts®

    brand, spanning across the upscale and midscale segments with an
    aggregate of over 435 properties and featuring complementary
    distribution and product offerings to provide business and
    leisure travelers with more options. The Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts®

    Family Brands consist of the following brands:





 




    
    
    



     
        •       
    

    
    Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts®—an

    upscale, full service brand of over 100 properties located in
    key business and vacation destinations around the world.
    Business locations feature meeting space flexible for large and
    small meetings, as well as business centers and fitness centers.
    The brand is tiered as follows: Wyndham Grand Collection,
    comprised primarily of 4+Diamond hotels in resort or urban
    destinations, offer a unique guest experience, sophisticated
    design and distinct dining options; Wyndham Hotels and Resorts
    offers customers amenities such as golf, tennis, beautiful
    beaches
    and/or spas;
    and Wyndham Garden Hotels, generally located in corporate or
    suburban areas, provide flexible space for small to midsize
    meetings and relaxed dining options. Each tier offers our
    signature Wyndham By
    Request®

    guest recognition loyalty program, which provides members
    personalized benefits at every stay in addition to those offered
    by the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program.




 



     
        •       
    

    
    Wingate by
    Wyndham®—a

    prototypical design hotel chain in the upper end of the midscale
    without food and beverage segment with 165 properties in North
    America. Each hotel offers amenities and services that make life
    on the road more productive, all at a single rate. Guests enjoy
    oversized rooms appointed with all the comforts and conveniences
    of home and office. Each room is equipped with a flat screen TV,
    high-speed internet access, in-room microwave and refrigerator.
    The brand also offers complimentary hot breakfast, a
    24-hour
    business center with free printing, copying and faxing and








    
    6



Table of Contents







    
    
    



     
    

    
    free access to a gym facility and the Wyndham Rewards loyalty
    program, including Wyndham By
    Request®.






 




    
    
    



     
        •       
    

    
    Tryp by
    Wyndham®—a

    select-service, mid-priced hotel brand acquired on June 30,
    2010, which is comprised of over 90 hotels located predominantly
    throughout Europe and South America in key center city, airport
    and business center markets. This brand caters to both business
    and leisure travelers with varying accommodations suited for
    different travel needs and preferences. Guests enjoy free
    Internet in all rooms, free breakfast buffet with a special
    emphasis on healthy, fresh ingredients and the full benefits of
    the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program, including Wyndham By
    Request®

    during 2011.




 



     
        •       
    

    
    Hawthorn Suites by
    Wyndham®—an

    extended stay brand that provides an ideal atmosphere for
    multi-night visits at over 75 properties predominantly in the
    U.S. We believe this brand provides a solution for
    longer-term travelers who typically seek accommodations at our
    Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts®

    or Wingate by
    Wyndham®

    properties. Each hotel offers an inviting and practical
    environment for travelers with well appointed, spacious one and
    two-bedroom suites and fully-equipped kitchens. Guests enjoy
    free Internet in all rooms and common areas as well as
    complimentary hot breakfast buffets and evening social hours as
    well as the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program, including Wyndham
    By
    Request®.






 




    
    



        •       
    

        Planet
    Hollywood®

    is a 4+Diamond, full-service, entertainment-based hotel
    brand that will be located in key destination cities globally.
    This brand was added to our portfolio of offerings in 2010 when
    we entered into a 20 year affiliation relationship with
    Planet Hollywood Resorts International, LLC to franchise this
    brand and provide management services globally for branded
    hotels. All hotels will offer multiple food and beverage
    outlets, flexible meeting space and entertainment-based theming.
    Guests will also enjoy the full benefits of the Wyndham Rewards
    loyalty program, including Wyndham by Request during 2011. As of
    December 31, 2010, we had no properties franchised or
    managed by us under this affiliation arrangement.




 



        •       
    

        Dream®

    is a full-service, light-hearted brand with trend-setting
    design for gateway cities and resort destinations. This brand
    was added to our portfolio of offerings in January 2011 when we
    entered into a 30 year affiliation relationship with
    Chatwal Hotels & Resorts, LLC to franchise this brand
    and provide management services globally for branded hotels. The
    progressive service offerings will emulate those of luxury
    hotels, but with a more relaxed point of view. Guests will also
    enjoy the full benefits of the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program,
    including Wyndham by Request during 2011. As of
    December 31, 2010, we had no properties franchised or
    managed by us under this affiliation arrangement.




 



        •       
    

        Night®

    is an ‘affordably chic’ brand featuring innovative
    designs. This brand was added to our portfolio of offerings in
    January 2011 when we entered into a 30 year affiliation
    relationship with Chatwal Hotels & Resorts, LLC to
    franchise this brand and provide management services globally
    for branded hotels. These hotels offer unique services such as
    guest deejays in lounges, discounts for green motorists with
    hybrid and electric cars and gourmet quick-serve food and
    beverage options. Guests will also enjoy the full benefits of
    the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program, including Wyndham by
    Request during 2011. As of December 31, 2010, we had no
    properties franchised or managed by us under this affiliation
    arrangement.







    
    7



Table of Contents




 


    The following table provides operating statistics for our 15
    brands and for affiliated and non-proprietary hotels in our
    system as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010. We
    derived occupancy, ADR and RevPAR from information provided by
    our franchisees.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


    Average
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


    Global
    


 


    Rooms
    


 


    # of
    


 


    # of
    


 


 


 


 


 


 




    Brand


 


    Segments
    Served

    (1)


 


    Per Property


 


    Properties


 


    Rooms


 


    Occupancy


 


    ADR


 


    RevPAR *



 






    Days Inn



 


    Economy


 


 


    80


 


 


 


    1,877


 


 


 


    149,980


 


 


 


    45.5


    %


 


    $


    60.46


 


 


    $


    27.52


 





    Super 8



 


    Economy


 


 


    63


 


 


 


    2,174


 


 


 


    136,267


 


 


 


    49.3


    %


 


    $


    55.54


 


 


    $


    27.41


 





    Microtel



 


    Economy


 


 


    71


 


 


 


    316


 


 


 


    22,539


 


 


 


    49.8


    %


 


    $


    57.35


 


 


    $


    28.54


 





    Howard Johnson



 


    Economy


 


 


    98


 


 


 


    474


 


 


 


    46,362


 


 


 


    45.2


    %


 


    $


    60.05


 


 


    $


    27.13


 





    Travelodge



 


    Economy


 


 


    73


 


 


 


    436


 


 


 


    31,908


 


 


 


    44.7


    %


 


    $


    63.51


 


 


    $


    28.39


 





    Knights Inn



 


    Economy


 


 


    61


 


 


 


    336


 


 


 


    20,335


 


 


 


    37.3


    %


 


    $


    42.28


 


 


    $


    15.76


 





    Ramada



 


    Midscale


 


 


    133


 


 


 


    896


 


 


 


    119,042


 


 


 


    49.6


    %


 


    $


    73.45


 


 


    $


    36.43


 





    Baymont



 


    Midscale


 


 


    84


 


 


 


    261


 


 


 


    21,933


 


 


 


    46.5


    %


 


    $


    60.60


 


 


    $


    28.19


 





    Wyndham Hotels and Resorts



 


    Upscale


 


 


    280


 


 


 


    101


 


 


 


    28,311


 


 


 


    55.0


    %


 


    $


    109.23


 


 


    $


    60.10


 





    Wingate by Wyndham



 


    Midscale


 


 


    91


 


 


 


    165


 


 


 


    15,066


 


 


 


    57.6


    %


 


    $


    79.09


 


 


    $


    45.56


 





    Tryp by Wyndham



 


    Midscale


 


 


    146


 


 


 


    94


 


 


 


    13,692


 


 


 


    62.6


    %


 


    $


    92.47


 


 


    $


    57.86


 





    Hawthorn Suites by Wyndham



 


    Midscale


 


 


    93


 


 


 


    76


 


 


 


    7,100


 


 


 


    55.4


    %


 


    $


    75.78


 


 


    $


    41.98


 





    Other (2)




 


    Upscale


 


 


    200


 


 


 


    1


 


 


 


    200


 


 


 


    N/A


 


 


 


    N/A


 


 


 


    N/A


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    7,207


 


 


 


    612,735


 


 


 


    48.0


    %


 


    $


    64.85


 


 


    $


    31.14


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 












 






    
    
    



    
    * 
    
    
    
    RevPAR may not recalculate by
    multiplying average occupancy rate by ADR due to rounding.
    







    
    (1)
    
    
    The global segments served column
    reflects the primary chain scale segments served using the STR
    Global definition and method as of December 2010. STR Global is
    U.S. centric and categorizes a hotel chain, or brand, based on
    ADR in the U.S. We utilized these chain scale segments to
    classify our brands both in the U.S. and internationally.
    



 



    
    (2)
    
    
    Represents a property we manage
    through a joint venture which is not branded under a Wyndham
    Hotel Group brand; as such, operating statistics (such as
    average occupancy rate, ADR and RevPAR) are not relevant.
    




 


    The following table depicts our geographic distribution and key
    operating metrics by region:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    # of
    


 


 


    # of
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




    Region


 


    Properties


 


 


    Rooms
    (1)



 


 


    Occupancy


 


 


    ADR


 


 


    RevPAR *


 



 






    U.S. 



 


 


    5,909


 


 


 


    457,126


 


 


 


    46.4


    %


 


    $


    61.41


 


 


    $


    28.49


 





    Canada



 


 


    467


 


 


 


    37,171


 


 


 


    51.3


    %


 


    $


    92.27


 


 


    $


    47.34


 





    Europe/Middle East/Africa



 


 


    363


 


 


 


    49,001


 


 


 


    57.4


    %


 


    $


    82.21


 


 


    $


    47.19


 





    Asia/Pacific



 


 


    360


 


 


 


    55,232


 


 


 


    53.0


    %


 


    $


    53.05


 


 


    $


    28.10


 





    Latin/South America



 


 


    108


 


 


 


    14,205


 


 


 


    49.2


    %


 


    $


    85.29


 


 


    $


    41.98


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    7,207


 


 


 


    612,735


 


 


 


    48.0


    %


 


    $


    64.85


 


 


    $


    31.14


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 












 






    
    
    



    
    * 
    
    
    
    RevPAR may not recalculate by
    multiplying occupancy by ADR due to rounding.
    







    
    (1)
    
    
    From time to time, as a result of
    weather or other business interruption and ordinary wear and
    tear, some of the rooms at these hotels may be taken out of
    service for repair.
    




 


    Our franchising business is designed to generate revenues for
    our hotel owners through the delivery of room night bookings to
    the hotel, the promotion of brand awareness among the consumer
    base, global sales efforts, ensuring guest satisfaction and
    providing outstanding service to hotel guests and our hotel
    owners.


 


    The sources of revenues from franchising hotels include
    (i) ongoing franchise fees, which are comprised of royalty,
    marketing and reservation fees, (ii) initial franchise
    fees, which relate to services provided to assist a franchised
    hotel to open for business under one of our brands and
    (iii) other service fees. Royalty fees are intended to
    cover the use of our trademarks and our operating expenses, such
    as expenses incurred for franchise services, including quality
    assurance and administrative support, and to provide us with
    operating profits. Marketing and reservation fees are intended
    to reimburse us for expenses associated with operating an
    international, centralized, brand-specific reservations system,
    access to third-party distribution channels, such as online
    travel agents (“OTAs”), advertising and marketing
    programs, global sales efforts, operations support, training and
    other related services. We promote and sell our brands through
    e-commerce
    initiatives, including online paid search and banner advertising
    as well as traditional media, including print and broadcast
    advertising. Since franchise fees generally are based on
    percentages of the franchised hotel’s gross room revenues,
    expanding our portfolio of franchised hotels and growing RevPAR
    at franchised hotels are important to our revenue growth. Other
    service fees include fees derived from providing ancillary
    services, which are intended to reimburse us for direct expenses
    associated providing these services.


 


    Our management business offers hotel owners the benefits of a
    global brand and a full range of management, marketing and
    reservation services. In addition to the standard franchise
    services described below, our hotel management business provides
    full-service hotel owners with professional oversight and
    comprehensive operations support services such as hiring,
    training and supervising the managers and employees who operate
    the hotels as well





    
    8



Table of Contents





    as annual budget preparation, financial analysis and extensive
    food and beverage services. Revenues earned from our management
    business include management and service fees. Management fees
    are comprised of base fees, which typically are calculated based
    on a specified percentage of gross revenues from hotel
    operations, and incentive fees, which typically are calculated
    based on a specified percentage of a hotel’s gross
    operating profit. Service fees include fees derived from
    accounting, design, construction and purchasing services and
    technical assistance provided to managed hotels. In general, all
    operating and other expenses are paid by the hotel owner and we
    are reimbursed for our out-of-pocket expenses. We are also
    required to recognize as revenue fees relating to payroll costs
    for operational employees who work at certain of our managed
    hotels. Although these costs are funded by hotel owners, we are
    required to report these fees on a gross basis as both revenues
    and expenses; there is no effect on our operating income.


 


    We also earn revenues from the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program
    when a member stays at a participating hotel. These revenues are
    derived from a fee we charge based upon a percentage of room
    revenues generated from such stay. These loyalty fees are
    intended to reimburse us for expenses associated with
    administering and marketing the program.


 



    Reservation
    Booking Channels


 


    In 2010, hotels within our system sold 7.7% or approximately
    77.7 million, of the one billion hotel room nights sold in
    the U.S. and another 26.3 million hotel room nights
    across other parts of the world. Over 95% of the hotels in our
    system are in the economy and midscale segments of the global
    lodging industry. Economy and midscale hotels are typically
    located on highway roadsides for convenience to business and
    leisure travelers. Therefore, the majority of hotel room nights
    sold at these hotels is to guests who seek accommodations on a
    walk-in basis, which we believe is attributable to the brand
    reputation and recognition of the brand name.


 


    For guests who book their hotel stay in advance, we booked on
    behalf of hotels within our system a total of 32.0 million
    room nights in 2010, which represents 41% of total bookings at
    these hotels and includes 15.1 million room nights booked
    through our Wyndham Rewards loyalty program.


 


    Our most significant and fastest growing reservation channel is
    the Internet, which includes proprietary websites for each of
    our brands and for the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program, as well
    as OTAs and other third-party Internet booking sources. In 2010,
    we booked 17.4 million room nights through the Internet on
    behalf of U.S. hotels within our system, representing 22.5% of
    the total bookings at these hotels. Since 2005, bookings made
    directly by customers on our brand websites have increased at a
    five year CAGR of approximately 13.0%, and increased to over
    7.8 million room nights in 2010, and bookings made through
    OTAs and other third-party Internet booking sources increased at
    a five year CAGR of approximately 19.0% to almost
    9.6 million room nights in 2010.


 


    Therefore, a key strategy for reservation delivery is the
    continual investment in and optimization of our eCommerce
    capabilities (websites, mobile and other online channels) as
    well as the deployment of advertising spend to drive online
    traffic to our proprietary eCommerce channels, including through
    marketing agreements we have with travel related search websites
    and affiliate networks. In addition, to ensure our franchisees
    receive bookings from OTAs and other third-party Internet
    sources, we provide direct connections between our central
    reservations system and strategic third-party Internet booking
    sources. These direct connections allow us to deliver more
    accurate and consistent rates and inventory, send bookings
    directly to our central systems without interference or delay
    and reduce our franchise distribution costs.


 


    Apart from the Internet, our call centers contributed almost
    2.6 million room nights in 2010 which represents 3.4% of
    the total bookings at the U.S. hotels within our system. We
    maintain call centers in Saint John, Canada; Aberdeen, South
    Dakota; and Manila, Philippines that handle bookings generated
    through toll-free numbers for our brands.


 


    Our global distribution partners, such as Sabre and Amadeus, and
    global sales team also contributed a total of 2.5 million
    room nights in 2010, which represents 3.2% of the total bookings
    at the U.S. hotels within our system. Our global distribution
    partners process reservations made by offline travel agents and
    by any OTAs that do not have the ability to directly connect
    with our reservation system. Our global sales team generates
    sales from global and meeting planners, tour operators, travel
    agents, government and military clients, and corporate and small
    business accounts, to supplement the on-property sales efforts.


 



    Loyalty
    Program


 


    The Wyndham Rewards program, which was introduced in 2003, has
    grown steadily to become one of the lodging industry’s
    largest loyalty programs (based upon number of participating
    properties). The diversity of our brands uniquely enables us to
    meet our members’ leisure as well as business travel needs
    across the greatest number of locations and a wide range of
    price points. The Wyndham Rewards program is offered in the
    U.S., Canada, Mexico, throughout Europe and in China. As of
    December 31, 2010, there were 23.4 million members
    enrolled in





    
    9



Table of Contents





    the program of whom 8.1 million were active (members who
    have either earned or redeemed within the last 18 months).
    These members stay at our brands more often and drive
    incremental room nights, higher ADR and a longer length of stay
    than non-member guests.


 


    Wyndham Rewards offers its members numerous ways to earn and
    redeem points. Members accumulate points by staying in one of
    almost 7,000 branded hotels participating in the program or by
    purchasing everyday services and products using a co-branded
    Wyndham Rewards credit card. Members also have the option to
    earn points or airline miles with approximately 50 business
    partners, including American Airlines, Continental Airlines,
    Delta Airlines, US Airways, United Airlines, Southwest Airlines,
    RCI, Endless Vacation Rentals, ResortQuest by Wyndham Vacation
    Rentals, Alamo and National Car Rental, Avis Budget Group,
    Amtrak, Aeromexico, Air China and BMI. When staying at one of
    our franchised or managed hotels, Wyndham Rewards members may
    elect to earn airline miles or rail points instead of Wyndham
    Rewards points. Wyndham Rewards members have thousands of
    options for redeeming their points including hotel stays,
    airline tickets, resort vacations, car rentals, electronics,
    sporting goods, movie and theme park tickets, and gift
    certificates.


 


    Additionally, the Wyndham ByRequest program, a unique program
    featuring a communications package and personalized guest
    amenities and services is offered exclusively at our Wyndham
    Hotels and Resorts brand, Wingate by Wyndham brand and Hawthorn
    by Wyndham brand, and will be offered at the Tryp by Wyndham,
    Planet Hollywood, Dream and Night brands during 2011.


 



    Marketing,
    Sales and Revenue Management Services


 


    Our brand marketing teams develop and implement global marketing
    strategies for each of our hotel brands, including generating
    consumer awareness of, and preference for each brand as well as
    direct response activities designed to drive bookings through
    our central reservation systems. While brand positioning and
    strategy is generated from our U.S. headquarters, we have
    seasoned marketing professionals positioned around the globe to
    modify and implement these strategies on a local market level.
    Our marketing efforts communicate the unique value proposition
    of each of our individual brands, and are designed to build
    consumer awareness and drive business to our hotels, either
    directly or through our own reservation channels. We deploy a
    variety of marketing strategies and tactics depending on the
    needs of the specific brand and local market, including online
    advertising, creative development, traditional media planning
    and buying (radio, television and print), promotions,
    sponsorships and direct marketing. Our Best Available Rate
    guarantee gives consumers confidence to book directly with us by
    providing the same rates regardless of whether they book through
    our call centers, websites or other third party channel. In
    addition, we leverage the strength of our Wyndham Rewards
    program to develop meaningful marketing promotions and campaigns
    to drive new and repeat business to hotels in our system. Our
    Wyndham Rewards marketing efforts drive tens of millions of
    consumer impressions through the program’s channels and
    through the program’s partners’ channels.


 


    Our global sales organization, strategically located throughout
    the world, leverages the significant size of our portfolio and
    our hotel brands to gain a larger share of business for each of
    our hotels through relationship-based selling to a diverse range
    of customers. Because our hotel portfolio meets the needs of all
    types of travelers, we can find more complete solutions for a
    client/company who may have travel needs ranging from economy to
    upscale brands. We are able to accommodate travelers almost
    anywhere business or leisure travelers go with our selection of
    over 7,200 hotels throughout the world. The sales team is
    deployed globally in key markets such as London, Mexico, Canada,
    Korea, China, Singapore and throughout the U.S. in order to
    leverage multidimensional customer needs for our hotels. The
    global sales team also works with each hotel to identify the
    hotel’s individual needs and then works to find the right
    customers to stay with those brands and those hotels.


 


    We offer revenue management services to help maximize revenues
    of our hotel owners by improving rate and inventory management
    capabilities and also coordinating all recommended revenue
    programs delivered to our hotels in tandem with
    e-commerce
    and brand marketing strategies. Properties enrolled in our
    revenue management services have experienced higher production
    from call centers, websites and other channels, as well as
    stronger RevPAR index performance. As a result, the almost 4,500
    properties currently enrolled in the revenue management program
    have experienced a 130 basis point improvement in RevPAR
    index since enrolling in our revenue management services.


 



    Property
    Services


 


    We continue to support our franchisees with a team of dedicated
    support and service providers both field based and housed at our
    corporate office. This team of industry veterans collaborates
    with hotel owners on all aspects of their operations and creates
    detailed and individualized strategies for success. By providing
    key services, such as system integration, operations support,
    training, strategic sourcing, and development planning and
    construction, we are able to make a meaningful contribution to
    the operations of the hotel resulting in more profits for our
    hotel owners.




    
    10



Table of Contents





    Our field services team, strategically dispersed worldwide,
    integrates new properties into our system and helps existing
    properties improve RevPAR performance and guest satisfaction.
    Our training teams provide robust educational opportunities to
    our hotel owners through instructor led, web-based and
    electronic learning vehicles for a number of relevant topics.
    Our strategic sourcing department helps franchisees control
    costs by leveraging the buying power of the entire Wyndham
    Worldwide organization to produce discounted prices on numerous
    items necessary for the successful operation of a hotel, such as
    linens and coffee. Our development planning and construction
    team provides architectural and interior design guidance to
    hotel owners to ensure compliance with brand standards,
    including construction site visits and the creation of interior
    design schemes.


 


    We also provide hotel owners with property management system
    software that synchronizes each hotel’s inventory with our
    central reservations platform. These systems help hotel owners
    manage their rooms inventory (room nights), rates (ADR) and
    reservations, which leads to greater profits at the property
    level and better enables us to deliver reservations at the right
    price to our hotel owners.


 


    Additionally, MyPortal, which is a property-focused intranet
    website, is the key communication vehicle and a single access
    point to all the information and tools available to help our
    hotel owners manage their day-to-day activities.


 



    New
    Development


 


    Our development team consists of 100 professionals dispersed
    throughout the world, including in the U.S., China, U.K. and
    Mexico. Our development efforts typically target existing
    franchisees as well as hotel developers, owners of independent
    hotels and owners of hotels leaving competitor brands.
    Approximately 30% of the new rooms added in 2010 were with
    franchisees or managed hotel owners already doing business with
    us.


 


    Our hotel management business gives us access to development
    opportunities beyond pure play franchising transactions. When a
    hotel owner is seeking both a brand and a manager for a
    full-service hotel, we are able to couple these services in one
    offering which we believe gives us a competitive advantage.


 


    During 2010, our development team generated 732 applications for
    new franchise
    and/or
    management agreements, of which 590, or 81%, resulted in new
    franchise
    and/or
    management agreements. The difference is attributable to various
    factors such as financing and agreement on contractual terms.
    Once executed, about 70% of hotels open within the following six
    months, while 10% open between six and 12 months and
    another 10% open generally within 24 months. The remaining
    may never open due to various factors such as financing.


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 102,700 rooms
    pending opening in our development pipeline, of which 51% were
    international and 55% were new construction.


 


    In North America, we generally employ a direct franchise model
    whereby we contract with and provide various services and
    reservations assistance directly to independent owner-operators
    of hotels. Under our direct franchise model, we principally
    market our lodging brands to hotel developers, owners of
    independent hotels and hotel owners who have the right to
    terminate their franchise affiliations with other lodging
    brands. We also market franchises to existing franchisees
    because many own, or may own in the future, other hotels that
    can be converted to one of our brands. Our standard franchise
    agreement grants a franchisee the right to non-exclusive use of
    the applicable franchise system in the operation of a single
    hotel at a specified location, typically for a period of 15 to
    20 years, and gives the franchisor and franchisee certain
    rights to terminate the franchise agreement before its
    conclusion under certain circumstances, such as upon the lapse
    of a certain number of years after commencement of the
    agreement. Early termination options in franchise agreements
    give us flexibility to terminate franchised hotels if business
    circumstances warrant. We also have the right to terminate a
    franchise agreement for failure by a franchisee to bring its
    property into compliance with contractual or quality standards
    within specified periods of time, pay required franchise fees or
    comply with other requirements of the franchise agreement.


 


    Although we generally employ a direct franchise model in North
    America, we expect to open and operate our first company-owned
    hotel, The Wyndham Lake Buena Vista Hotel and Spa at Bonnet
    Creek Resort, in late 2011. This hotel will be situated in our
    Bonnet Creek vacation ownership resort near the Walt Disney
    World®

    resort in Florida and will enable us to leverage the synergies
    of our company’s hotel and vacation ownership components.


 


    In other parts of the world, we employ a direct franchise model
    or, where we are not yet ready to support the required
    infrastructure for that region, we may employ a master franchise
    model. Franchise agreements in regions outside of North America
    may carry a lower fee structure based upon the breadth of
    services we are prepared to provide in that particular region.
    Under our master franchise model, we principally market our
    lodging brands to third parties that assume the principal role
    of franchisor, which entails selling individual franchise
    agreements and providing quality assurance, marketing and
    reservations support to franchisees. Since we provide only
    limited services to master franchisors, the fees we receive in
    connection with master franchise agreements are typically lower
    than the fees we receive under a direct franchising model.
    Master franchise agreements, which are individually





    
    11



Table of Contents





    negotiated and vary among our different brands, typically
    contain provisions that permit us to terminate the agreement if
    the other party to the agreement fails to meet specified
    development schedules. The terms of our master franchise
    agreements generally are competitive with industry averages.


 


    We also enter into affiliation relationships whereby we provide
    our development, marketing and franchise services to brands
    owned by our affiliated partners. These relationships give us
    the ability to offer unique experiences to our guests and unique
    brand concepts to developers seeking to do business with Wyndham
    Hotel Group. Affiliation agreements typically carry lower
    royalty fees since we do not incur costs associated with owning
    the underlying intellectual property. Certain of these
    affiliated relationships contain development targets whereby our
    future development rights may be terminated upon failure to meet
    the specified targets.


 



    Strategies


 


    Wyndham Hotel Group is strategically focused on the following
    two objectives that we believe are essential to our business:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        increasing our system size by adding new rooms and retaining the
    properties that meet our performance criteria; and




 



        •       
    

        strengthening our customer value proposition by driving revenues
    to hotel owners operating under or affiliated with our brand
    offerings.





 


    To increase our system size, we intend to deploy specific
    tactics to strengthen our leading position in the North America
    market, which represents 88% of hotels in our global system. We
    also expect to grow our system size outside North America, where
    a relatively low percentage of hotels are branded. Our global
    strategy generally focuses on pursuing new room growth
    organically although we may consider the select acquisition of
    brands that facilitate our strategic objectives. We intend to
    increase the size of our system by deploying these primary
    strategies:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        targeting key markets globally where the Wyndham brand is
    underrepresented and deploying a
    hub-and-spoke
    development strategy;




 



        •       
    

        creating franchise conversion programs for our Super 8, Days Inn
    and Ramada brands with a goal of reducing the average age of the
    North America system;




 



        •       
    

        spurring new construction growth in our Microtel and Wingate
    brands by developing franchisee-financing options for
    multi-unit
    developers in North America;




 



        •       
    

        introducing the Tryp by Wyndham brand to North America with
    targeted development efforts in key markets and continuing to
    increase its existing presence in Latin America and
    Europe; and




 



        •       
    

        targeting new construction and conversion opportunities in
    China, the Middle East, United Kingdom and India for our
    Wyndham, Ramada, Days Inn and Super 8 brands.





 


    We recognize that the value we bring to hotel owners has a
    direct impact on our ability to retain their property within our
    system. This is why helping to make our franchisees and managed
    hotels profitable, whether through incremental revenue, cost
    efficiencies, operational excellence or better service, is a key
    focus of Wyndham Hotel Group. We also believe that our ability
    to attract new franchisees and hotel owners is greatly
    influenced by demonstrating our value to existing franchisees
    and hotel owners. We are enhancing this value through the launch
    of a series of strategic initiatives in 2010, collectively known
    as “Apollo”, with the goal of driving incremental
    revenue to our franchised and managed hotels and strengthening
    the value of our brands. These initiatives and other strategies
    to strengthen our customer value proposition are:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        improving consumer conversion on our brand web sites by
    enhancing navigation, content, rate availability, and technology;




 



        •       
    

        improving the overall content of our hotel brands across all web
    channels;




 



        •       
    

        optimizing rate information for hotel owners through all
    distribution channels;




 



        •       
    

        growing and strengthening our Wyndham Rewards loyalty
    program; and




 



        •       
    

        continuing the deployment of our exceptional service culture
    tool, “Count on Me!”, into every aspect of the
    business.





 



    Seasonality


 


    Franchise and management fees are generally higher in the second
    and third quarters than in the first or fourth quarters of any
    calendar year as a result of increased leisure travel and the
    related ability to charge higher ADRs during the spring and
    summer months.




    
    12



Table of Contents






    Competition


 


    Competition is robust among the lodging brand franchisors to
    grow their franchise systems and retain their existing
    franchisees. We believe existing and potential franchisees make
    decisions based principally upon the perceived value and quality
    of the brand and the services offered to franchisees. We further
    believe that the perceived value of a brand name is, to some
    extent, a function of the success of the existing hotels
    franchised under the brands. We believe that existing and
    prospective franchisees value a franchise based upon their views
    of the relationship between the costs, including costs of
    conversion and affiliation, to the benefits, including potential
    for increased revenues and profitability, and upon the
    reputation of the franchisor.


 


    The ability of an individual franchisee to compete may be
    affected by the location and quality of its property, the number
    of competing properties in the vicinity, community reputation
    and other factors. A franchisee’s success may also be
    affected by general, regional and local economic conditions. The
    potential negative effect of these conditions on our results of
    operations is substantially reduced by virtue of the diverse
    geographical locations of our franchised hotels and by the scale
    of our franchisee base. Our franchise system is dispersed among
    almost 5,600 franchisees, which reduces our exposure to any one
    franchisee. No one franchisee accounts for more than 3% of our
    franchised hotels or total segment revenues.


 



    WYNDHAM
    EXCHANGE & RENTALS


 



    Vacation
    Exchange and Rentals Industry


 


    The over $60 billion global vacation exchange and rentals
    industry is largely a fee-for-service business and has been a
    growing segment of the hospitality industry. The industry offers
    services and products to both leisure travelers and vacation
    property owners. For leisure travelers, the industry offers
    access to a range of fully-furnished vacation properties, which
    include privately-owned vacation homes, villas, cottages,
    apartments and condominiums, vacation ownership resorts,
    inventory at hotels and resorts, boats and yachts. The industry
    offers leisure travelers flexibility (subject to availability)
    in time of travel and choice of lodging options in regions where
    travelers may not typically have access to such choices. For
    vacation property owners, affiliations with vacation exchange
    companies allow owners of vacation intervals to exchange their
    interests in vacation properties for vacation time at other
    properties or for other various services and products.
    Additionally, affiliation with vacation rental companies
    provides property owners the ability to have their properties
    marketed and rented and, in some instances, to transfer the
    responsibility of managing such properties.


 


    To participate in a vacation exchange, an owner generally
    contributes their interval to an exchange company’s network
    and then indicates the particular resort or geographic area
    where the owner would like to travel, the size of the unit
    desired and the period during which the owner would like to
    vacation. The exchange company then rates the owner’s
    contributed intervals based upon a number of factors, including
    the location and size of the unit or units, the quality of the
    resort or resorts and the time period or periods during which
    the intervals entitle the owner to vacation. An exchange may
    then be completed based on these conditions. Exchange companies
    generally derive revenues from owners of intervals by charging
    exchange fees for facilitating exchanges and through annual
    membership dues. In 2009, 72% of owners of intervals were
    members of vacation exchange companies, and 54% of such owners
    exchanged their intervals through such exchange companies.


 


    The long-term trend in the vacation exchange industry has been
    growth in the number of members of vacation exchange companies.
    Current economic conditions have resulted in slower growth, but
    we believe that an economic recovery will support a return to
    stronger growth. In 2009, there were approximately
    6.1 million members industry-wide who completed
    approximately 3.3 million exchanges. Within the broader
    long-term growth trend of the vacation exchange industry, there
    is also a trend where timeshare developers are enrolling members
    in private label clubs, where members have the option to
    exchange within the club or through external exchange channels.
    The club trend has a positive impact on the average number of
    members, but a negative effect on the number of exchange
    transactions per average member and revenue per member.


 


    The vacation rental industry offers vacation property owners the
    opportunity to rent their properties to leisure travelers for
    periods of time. The vacation rental industry is not as
    organized as the lodging industry in that the vacation rental
    industry does not have global reservation systems or brands. The
    industry is divided broadly into two segments. The first is the
    serviced rental segment, where the homeowner provides their
    property to an agent to rent, in a majority of cases, on an
    exclusive basis and the agent receives a commission for
    marketing the property, managing bookings and providing quality
    assurance to the renter. The other segment of the industry is
    the listing business, where there is no exclusive relationship
    and the property owner pays a fixed fee for an online listing or
    a directory listing with minimal additional services, typically
    with no direct booking ability or quality assurance services.
    Typically, serviced vacation rental companies collect rent in
    advance and, after deducting the applicable commissions, remit
    the net amounts due to the property owners
    and/or
    property managers. In addition to commissions, serviced vacation
    rental companies may earn revenues from rental customers through
    fees that are





    
    13



Table of Contents





    incidental to the rental of the properties, such as fees for
    travel services, local transportation,
    on-site
    services and insurance or similar types of products.


 


    The global supply of vacation rental inventory is highly
    fragmented with much of it being made available by individual
    property owners. We believe that as of December 31, 2010,
    there were approximately 1.3 million and 1.7 million
    vacation properties available for rental in the U.S. and
    Europe, respectively. In the U.S., the vacation properties
    available for rental are primarily condominiums or stand-alone
    houses. In Europe, the vacation properties available for rental
    include individual homes and apartments, campsites and vacation
    park bungalows. Individual owners of vacation properties in the
    U.S. and Europe may own their properties as investments and
    may sometimes use such properties for their own use for portions
    of the year. We believe that the overall supply of vacation
    rental properties has grown primarily because of the increasing
    desire by existing owners of second homes to gain an earnings
    stream evidenced by homes not previously offered for rent
    appearing on the market.


 


    We believe that the overall demand for vacation rentals has been
    growing for the following reasons: (i) the consumer value
    of renting a unit for an entire family; (ii) the increased
    use of the Internet as a tool for facilitating vacation rental
    transactions; and (iii) increased consumer awareness of
    vacation rental options. The global demand per year for vacation
    rentals is approximately 54 million vacation weeks,
    34 million of which are rented by leisure travelers from
    Europe. Demand for vacation rental properties is often regional
    since many leisure travelers rent properties within driving
    distance of their home. Some leisure travelers, however, travel
    relatively long distances from their homes to vacation
    properties in domestic or international destinations. Current
    economic conditions have resulted in slower growth in the near
    term, but we believe that long-term trends will support a return
    to stronger growth.


 


    The destinations where leisure travelers from Europe, the U.S.,
    South Africa and Australia generally rent properties vary by
    country of origin of the leisure travelers. Leisure travelers
    from Europe generally rent properties in European destinations,
    including the United Kingdom, Denmark, Ireland, Spain, France,
    the Netherlands, Germany, Italy and Portugal. Demand from
    European leisure travelers has recently been shifting beyond
    traditional Western Europe, based on political stability across
    Europe, increased accessibility of Eastern Europe and the
    expansion of the European Union. Demand from U.S. leisure
    travelers is focused on rentals in seaside destinations, such as
    Hawaii, Florida and the Carolinas, in ski destinations such as
    the Rocky Mountains, and in urban centers such as Las Vegas,
    Nevada; and San Francisco, California. Demand is also
    growing for destinations in Mexico and the Caribbean by leisure
    travelers from the U.S.


 



    Wyndham
    Exchange & Rentals Overview


 


    Wyndham Exchange & Rentals is largely a fee-for-service
    business that provides vacation exchange services and products
    to developers, managers and owners of intervals of vacation
    ownership interests, and markets vacation rental properties. Our
    vacation exchange and rentals business primarily derives its
    revenues from fees which generate stable and predictable cash
    flows. Our vacation exchange business, RCI, derives a majority
    of its revenues from annual membership dues and exchange fees
    for facilitating transactions. Our vacation exchange business
    also derives revenues from ancillary services including
    additional services provided to transacting members, programs
    with affiliated resorts, club servicing and loyalty programs.
    Our vacation rentals business primarily derives its revenues
    from fees, which generally average between 15% and 45% of the
    gross booking fees for non-proprietary inventory, except for
    where we receive 100% of the revenues for properties that we own
    or operate under long-term capital leases. Our vacation rentals
    business also derives revenues from ancillary services delivered
    to property owners and travelers. The revenues generated in our
    vacation exchange and rentals business are substantially derived
    from the direct customer relationships we have with our
    3.8 million vacation exchange members, the affiliated
    developers of over 4,000 resorts, our over 51,000 independent
    property owners and our repeat vacation rentals customers. No
    one external customer, developer or customer group accounts for
    more than 2% of our vacation exchange and rentals revenues.


 


    We are the world’s largest vacation exchange network based
    on the number of vacation exchange members and the world’s
    largest global marketers of vacation rental properties based on
    the number of serviced vacation rental properties marketed. Our
    vacation exchange and rentals business has access for specified
    periods, in a majority of cases on an exclusive basis, to
    approximately 97,000 vacation properties, which are comprised of
    over 4,000 vacation ownership resorts around the world through
    our vacation exchange business, and approximately 93,000
    vacation rental properties with approximately 87,000 properties
    located principally in Europe and approximately 6,000 located in
    the U.S. Each year, our vacation exchange and rentals
    business provides more than 4.9 million leisure-bound
    families with vacation exchange and rentals services and
    products. The properties available to leisure travelers through
    our vacation exchange and rentals business include vacation
    ownership condominiums, homes, villas, cottages, bungalows,
    campgrounds, hotel rooms and suites, city apartments, fractional
    private residences, luxury destination clubs and yachts. We
    offer leisure travelers flexibility (subject to availability) as
    to time of travel and a choice of lodging options in regions to
    which such travelers may not typically have such ease of access,
    and





    
    14



Table of Contents





    we offer property owners marketing services, quality control
    services and property management services ranging from
    key-holding to full property maintenance for such properties.
    Our vacation exchange and rentals business has over 150
    worldwide offices. We market our services and products using ten
    primary consumer brands and other related brands.


 



    Vacation
    Exchange


 


    Through our vacation exchange business, RCI, we have
    relationships with over 4,000 vacation ownership resorts in
    approximately 100 countries. We have 3.8 million vacation
    exchange members and generally retain more than 85% of members
    each year, with the overall membership base currently stable and
    expected to grow over time, and generate fees from members for
    both annual membership subscriptions and transaction based
    services. We acquire substantially all members of our exchange
    programs indirectly. In substantially all cases, an affiliated
    resort developer buys the initial term of an RCI membership on
    behalf of the consumer when the consumer purchases a vacation
    ownership interval. Generally, this initial term is either 1 or
    2 years and entitles the vacation ownership interval
    purchaser to receive periodicals published by RCI and to use the
    applicable exchange program for an additional fee. The vacation
    ownership interval purchaser generally pays for membership
    renewals, or such member renewals are paid for on the
    purchaser’s behalf by the developer. Additionally, such
    purchaser generally pays any applicable fees for exchange
    transactions.


 


    RCI operates three worldwide exchange programs that have a
    member base of vacation owners who are generally well-traveled
    and who want flexibility and variety in their travel plans each
    year. Our vacation exchange business’ three exchange
    programs, which serve owners of intervals at affiliated resorts,
    are
    RCI®

    Weeks, RCI
    Points®

    and The Registry
    Collection®.

    Participants in these vacation exchange programs pay annual
    membership dues. For additional fees, participants are entitled
    to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties
    affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition,
    certain participants may exchange intervals for other
    leisure-related services and products. We refer to participants
    in these three exchange programs as “members.”


 


    The RCI Weeks exchange program is the world’s largest
    vacation ownership exchange network and generally provides
    members with the ability to trade week-long intervals in units
    at their resorts for week-long intervals at the same resorts or
    at comparable resorts. Additionally, with significant technology
    enhancements that RCI made to its Weeks program in 2010, RCI
    Weeks members are better able to understand the trading power
    value of their vacation interval once deposited with RCI. Such
    members can also combine deposited timeshare intervals which
    allow them the ability to transact into higher-valued vacations
    and receive a deposit credit if the value of their deposited
    interval is greater than the interval that they have received by
    exchange. See below under Internet for more information about
    this comprehensive initiative.


 


    The RCI Points exchange program, launched in 2000, is a global
    points-based exchange network, which allocates points to
    intervals that members cede to the exchange program. Under the
    RCI Points exchange program, members may redeem their points for
    the use of vacation properties in the exchange program or for
    other services and products which may change from time to time,
    such as airfare, car rentals, cruises, hotels and other
    accommodations. When points are redeemed for these other
    services and products, our vacation exchange business gains the
    right to these points so it can rent vacation properties backed
    by these points in order to recoup the expense of providing
    other services and products. In 2010, RCI launched RCI Points
    PlatinumSM membership, a premium level of membership and the
    latest enhancement to its successful RCI Points exchange program
    that offers exclusive exchange and lifestyle benefits to
    subscribing members.


 


    We believe that The Registry Collection exchange program is the
    industry’s largest and first global exchange network of
    luxury vacation accommodations. The luxury vacation
    accommodations in The Registry Collection’s network include
    higher-end vacation ownership resorts, fractional ownership
    resorts, condo-hotels and yachts. The Registry Collection
    program allows members to exchange their intervals for the use
    of other vacation properties within the network for a fee and
    also offers access to other services and products, such as
    cruises, yachts, adventure travel, hotels and other
    accommodations. The members of The Registry Collection exchange
    program often own greater than two-week intervals at affiliated
    resorts.


 


    Our vacation exchange business operates worldwide primarily in
    the following regions: North America, Europe, Latin America,
    Southern Africa, Asia, Pacific and the Middle East. We tailor
    our strategies and operating plans for each of the geographical
    environments where RCI has or seeks to develop a substantial
    member base.


 



    Vacation
    Rentals


 


    The vacation rental properties we market are principally
    privately-owned villas, homes, cottages, bungalows, campgrounds,
    apartments and condominiums that generally belong to independent
    property owners. In addition to these properties, we market
    inventory from our vacation exchange business and from other
    sources. We generate fee income from marketing and renting these
    properties to consumers. We currently make nearly
    1.2 million vacation





    
    15



Table of Contents





    rental bookings a year. We market vacation rental properties
    under proprietary brand names, such as Landal GreenParks,
    Hoseasons, Villas4You, cottages4you, English Country Cottages,
    James Villa Holidays, Novasol, Dansommer, Cuendet, Canvas
    Holidays, ResortQuest and Endless Vacation Rentals and through
    select private-label arrangements. The following is a
    description of some of our major vacation rental brands:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Novasol®

    is one of continental Europe’s largest rental
    companies, featuring properties in more than 20 European
    countries including holiday homes in Denmark, Norway, Sweden,
    France, Italy and Croatia, with over 29,000 exclusive holiday
    homes available for rent through established brands such as
    Novasol, Dansommer and Cuendet.




 



        •       
    

        The Hoseasons Group operates a number of well-recognized
    and established brands within the vacation rental market,
    including Hoseasons, English Country Cottages, cottages4you,
    Welcome Cottages and James Villa Holidays, and offers
    unparalleled access to over 44,000 properties across the U.K.
    and Europe.




 



        •       
    

        Landal
    GreenParks®

    is one of Holland’s leading holiday park companies,
    with over 70 holiday parks offering approximately 11,000 holiday
    park bungalows, villas and apartments in the Netherlands,
    Germany, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland and the Czech Republic.
    Every year more than 2 million guests visit Landal’s
    parks, many of which offer dining, shopping and wellness
    facilities.




 



        •       
    

        Canvas Holidays is a specialist tour operator offering
    luxury camping holidays in Europe at over 90 of the finest
    European campsites with almost 3,000 accommodation units. It has
    a wide choice of luxury accommodations — spacious
    lodges, comfortable mobile homes and the unique Maxi Tent, plus
    an exciting range of children’s and family clubs.




 



        •       
    

        ResortQuest is a leading provider of full-service,
    wholly-owned vacation condominiums and home rentals in the
    U.S. With more than 20 years of experience in the
    industry, ResortQuest represents a portfolio of approximately
    6,000 vacation rental properties in premier beach, ski, golf and
    tennis resort destinations across North America — from
    ski-in/ski-out townhomes in Breckenridge, Colorado and Sundance
    Film Festival lodging in Park City, Utah, to golf course villas
    on Hilton Head Island in South Carolina and Gulf-front condos
    along Florida’s Emerald Coast.





 


    Most of the rental activity under our brands takes place in
    Europe and the U.S., although we have the ability to source and
    rent inventory in approximately 100 countries. Our vacation
    rentals business also has the opportunity to provide inventory
    to our 3.8 million vacation exchange members.


 


    Our vacation rentals business currently has relationships with
    over 51,000 independent property owners in 32 countries,
    including the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark,
    Sweden, France, Ireland, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Portugal,
    Norway, Greece, Austria, Croatia, certain countries in Eastern
    Europe, the U.S., the Pacific Rim and Latin America. Property
    owners typically enter into one year or multi-year contracts
    with our vacation rentals subsidiaries to market the rental of
    their properties within our rental portfolio. Our vacation
    rentals business also has an ownership interest in, or capital
    leases under, approximately 10% of the properties in our Landal
    GreenParks rental portfolio.


 



    Customer
    Development


 


    In our vacation exchange business, we affiliate with vacation
    ownership developers directly as a result of the efforts of our
    in-house sales teams. Affiliated developers sign long-term
    agreements each with a duration of up to 12 years. Our
    members are acquired primarily through our affiliated developers
    as part of the vacation ownership purchase process. In our
    vacation rentals business, we primarily enter into exclusive
    annual rental agreements with property owners. We market rental
    properties online and offline to large databases of customers
    which generate repeat bookings. Additional customers are sourced
    through bookable websites and offline advertising and
    promotions, and through the use of third-party travel agencies,
    tour operators, and online distribution channels to drive
    additional occupancy. We have a number of specific branded
    websites, such as
    http://www.cottages4you.co.uk
    and
    http://www.resortquest.com
    as well as a new global portal highlighting all of our vacation
    rental brands across product type and geography,
    http://www.wyndhamvacationrentals.com,
    to promote, sell and inform new customers about vacation
    rentals. Given the diversified nature of our rental brands,
    there is limited dependence on a single customer group or
    business partner.


 



    Loyalty
    Program


 


    Our U.S. vacation exchange business’ member loyalty
    program is RCI Elite
    Rewards®,

    which offers a branded credit card, the RCI Elite Rewards credit
    card. The card allows members to earn reward points that can be
    redeemed for items related to our exchange programs, including
    annual membership dues and exchange fees for transactions, and
    other services and products offered by our vacation exchange
    business or certain third parties, including airlines and
    retailers.




    
    16



Table of Contents






    Internet


 


    Given the increasing interest of our members and rental
    customers to transact on the Internet, we invest and will
    continue to invest in cutting edge and innovative online
    technologies to ensure that our members and rental customers
    have access to similar information and services online that we
    provide through our call centers. Through our comprehensive
    http://www.RCI.com
    initiative, we have launched enhanced search capabilities that
    greatly simplify our search process and make it easier for a
    member to find a desired vacation. We have also greatly expanded
    our online content, including multiple resort pictures and
    high-definition videos, to help educate members about potential
    vacation options. Additionally, in 2010, we released a
    significant series of technology enhancements to our members.
    This new technology includes program enhancements for our RCI
    Weeks Members that provide complete trading power transparency,
    allowing members to better understand the trading power value of
    the timeshare interval that they deposited with RCI and the
    timeshare interval into which they want to exchange. Members
    also have the ability to combine the timeshare intervals that
    they have deposited with RCI for increased trading power and get
    a deposit credit if the trading power value of their deposited
    interval is greater than the interval that they have received by
    exchange. We also have enhanced our ability to merchandise
    offers through web only channels and have launched mobile
    technologies such as applications for the
    iPhone®

    to access
    http://www.RCI.com
    functionality.


 


    Over the last several years, we have improved our web
    penetration for European rentals through enhancements that have
    moved the majority of bookings online. As our online
    distribution channels improve, members and rental customers will
    shift from transacting business through our call centers to
    transacting business online, which we expect will generate cost
    savings. By offering our members and rental customers the
    opportunity to transact business either through our call centers
    or online, we offer our members and rental customers the ability
    to use the distribution channel with which they are most
    comfortable. Regardless of the distribution channel our members
    and rental customers use, our goals are member and rental
    customer satisfaction and retention.


 



    Call
    Centers


 


    Our vacation exchange and rentals business also services its
    members and rental customers through global call centers. The
    requests that we receive at our global call centers are handled
    by our vacation guides, who are trained to fulfill our
    members’ and rental customers’ requests for vacation
    exchanges and rentals. When our members’ and rental
    customers’ primary choices are unavailable in periods of
    high demand, our guides offer the next nearest match in order to
    fulfill the members’ and rental customers’ needs. Call
    centers are currently an important distribution channel and
    therefore we invest resources and will continue to do so to
    ensure that members and rental customers continue to receive a
    high level of personalized customer service through our call
    centers.


 



    Marketing


 


    We market to our members and rental customers through direct
    mail and email, online distribution channels, brochures,
    magazines and travel agencies. We recently launched a
    comprehensive social media initiative including an RCI
    application for the
    iPhone®

    and iPod
    touch®,

    a Facebook fan page, a Twitter account and the RCI Blog. Our
    vacation exchange and rentals business has over 100 publications
    involved in the marketing of the business. Our vacation exchange
    and rentals business also publishes resort directories and other
    periodicals related to the vacation and vacation ownership
    industry and other travel-related services. We use our
    publications not only for marketing, but also for member and
    rental customer retention. Additionally, we promote our
    offerings to owners of resorts and homes through publications,
    trade shows, online and other marketing efforts.


 



    Strategies


 


    We intend to grow our vacation exchange and rentals business
    profitability by focusing on five strategic themes:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Inspire world-class associate engagement and “Count On
    Me!” service so that we will deliver better services and
    products, resulting in improved customer satisfaction and
    optimal business growth;




 



        •       
    

        Invest in technology to improve the customer experience, grow
    market share and reduce costs;




 



        •       
    

        Offer more options to our guests by expanding into new
    geographic markets and product lines;




 



        •       
    

        Develop compelling new services and products by improving our
    analytic process; and




 



        •       
    

        Promote the benefits of timeshare and vacation rentals to new
    customer segments.





 


    Our plans generally focus on pursuing these strategies
    organically. However, in appropriate circumstances, we will
    consider opportunities to acquire businesses, both domestic and
    international.




    
    17



Table of Contents






    Seasonality


 


    Vacation exchange and rentals revenues are generally higher in
    the first and third quarters than in the second or fourth
    quarters. Vacation exchange transaction revenues are normally
    highest in the first quarter, which is generally when members of
    RCI plan and book their vacations for the year. Rental
    transaction revenues earned are usually highest in the third
    quarter, when vacation rentals are highest. More than half of
    our vacation rental customers book their reservations within
    11 weeks of departure dates and more than 70% of our rental
    customers book their reservations within 20 weeks of
    departure dates, reflecting recent trends of bookings closer to
    the travel date.


 



    Competition


 


    The vacation exchange and rentals business faces competition
    throughout the world. Our vacation exchange business competes
    with a third-party international exchange company, with regional
    and local vacation exchange companies and with Internet-only
    limited service exchanges. In addition, certain developers offer
    exchanges through internal networks of properties, which can be
    operated by us or by the developer, that offer owners of
    intervals access to exchanges other than those offered by our
    vacation exchange business. Our vacation rentals business faces
    competition from a broad variety of professional vacation rental
    managers and
    rent-by-owner
    channels that collectively use brokerage services, direct
    marketing and the Internet to market and rent vacation
    properties.


 



    WYNDHAM
    VACATION OWNERSHIP


 



    Vacation
    Ownership Industry


 


    The global vacation ownership industry, which is also referred
    to as the timeshare industry, is an important component of the
    domestic and international hospitality industry. The vacation
    ownership industry enables customers to share ownership of a
    fully-furnished vacation accommodation. Typically, a vacation
    ownership purchaser acquires either a fee simple interest in a
    property, which gives the purchaser title to a fraction of a
    unit, or a right to use a property, which gives the purchaser
    the right to use a property for a specific period of time.
    Generally, a vacation ownership purchaser’s fee simple
    interest in or right to use a property is referred to as a
    “vacation ownership interest.” For many vacation
    ownership interest purchasers, vacation ownership is an
    attractive vacation alternative to traditional lodging
    accommodations at hotels or owning vacation properties. Owners
    of vacation ownership interests are not subject to the variance
    in room rates to which lodging customers are subject, and
    vacation ownership units are, on average, more than twice the
    size of traditional hotel rooms and typically have more
    amenities, such as kitchens, than do traditional hotel rooms.


 


    The vacation ownership concept originated in Europe during the
    late 1960s and spread to the U.S. shortly thereafter. The
    vacation ownership industry expanded slowly in the
    U.S. until the mid-1980s. From the mid-1980s through 2007,
    the vacation ownership industry grew at a double-digit CAGR,
    although sales slowed by approximately 8% in 2008 and
    experienced even greater declines in 2009 due to the global
    recession and a significant disruption in the credit markets.
    Based on research by the American Resort Development Association
    or ARDA, a trade association representing the vacation ownership
    and resort development industries, domestic sales of vacation
    ownership interests were approximately $6.3 billion in 2010
    compared to $6.5 billion in 2003. ARDA estimated that in
    2009, there were approximately 8 million households that
    owned one or more vacation ownership interests in the U.S.


 


    Based on published industry data, we believe that the following
    factors have contributed to the substantial growth, particularly
    in North America, of the vacation ownership industry over the
    past two decades:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        inherent appeal of a timeshare vacation option as opposed to a
    hotel stay;




 



        •       
    

        improvement in quality of resorts and resort management and
    servicing;




 



        •       
    

        increased flexibility for owners of vacation ownership interests
    made possible through owners’ affiliations with vacation
    ownership exchange companies and vacation ownership
    companies’ internal exchange programs;




 



        •       
    

        entry of widely-known lodging and entertainment companies into
    the industry; and




 



        •       
    

        increased consumer confidence in the industry based on enhanced
    consumer protection regulation of the industry.





 


    Demographic factors explain, in part, the growth of the
    industry. A 2010 study of recent vacation ownership purchasers
    revealed that the average purchaser was 52 years of age and
    had a median household income of $78,400. The average purchaser
    in the U.S., therefore, is a baby boomer who has disposable
    income and interest in purchasing vacation products. We believe
    that baby boomers will continue to have a positive influence on
    the vacation ownership industry.




    
    18



Table of Contents





    According to information compiled by ARDA, four primary reasons
    consumers cite for purchasing vacation ownership interests are:
    (i) flexibility with respect to different locations, unit
    sizes and times of year, (ii) the certainty of quality
    accommodations, (iii) credibility of the timeshare company
    and (iv) the opportunity to exchange into other resort
    locations. According to a 2010 ARDA study, nearly 84% of owners
    of vacation ownership interests expressed satisfaction with
    owning timeshare. With respect to exchange opportunities, most
    owners of vacation ownership interests can exchange vacation
    ownership interests through exchange companies and through the
    applicable vacation ownership company’s internal network of
    properties.


 



    Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership Overview


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership, our vacation ownership business,
    includes marketing and sales of vacation ownership interests,
    consumer financing in connection with the purchase by
    individuals of vacation ownership interests, property management
    services to property owners’ associations and development
    and acquisition of vacation ownership resorts. We operate our
    vacation ownership business through our two primary brands,
    Wyndham Vacation Resorts and WorldMark by Wyndham. In October
    1999, WorldMark by Wyndham formed Wyndham Vacation Resorts Asia
    Pacific Pty. Ltd., a New South Wales corporation, or Wyndham
    Asia Pacific, as its direct wholly owned subsidiary for the
    purpose of conducting sales, marketing and resort development
    activities in the South Pacific. Wyndham Asia Pacific is
    currently the largest vacation ownership business in Australia.


 


    We have the largest vacation ownership business in the world as
    measured by the number of vacation ownership resorts, vacation
    ownership units and owners of vacation ownership interests and
    by annual revenues associated with the sale of vacation
    ownership interests. As of December 31, 2010, we have
    developed or acquired over 160 vacation ownership resorts in the
    U.S., Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and the South Pacific that
    represent approximately 20,500 individual vacation ownership
    units and over 814,000 owners of vacation ownership interests.
    During 2010, Wyndham Vacation Ownership expanded its portfolio
    with the addition of resorts in Orlando, Florida; Myrtle Beach,
    South Carolina; and Australia and added additional inventory at
    locations in Orlando, Florida; Australia; and New Zealand.


 


    In response to worldwide economic conditions impacting the
    general availability of credit on which our vacation ownership
    business has historically been reliant, we announced in late
    2008 a plan to reduce our 2009 gross VOI sales by
    approximately 40% in order to reduce our need to access the
    asset-backed securities markets during 2009 and beyond, and also
    significantly reduce costs and capital needs while enhancing
    cash flow. Accordingly, during 2009, we recorded approximately
    $1.3 billion in gross vacation ownership interest sales, a
    reduction over 2008. In 2010, we recorded gross VOI sales
    of $1.5 billion which includes $51 million of WAAM
    sales.


 


    Our primary vacation ownership brands, Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    and WorldMark by Wyndham, operate vacation ownership programs
    through which vacation ownership interests can be redeemed for
    vacations through points- or credits-based internal reservation
    systems that provide owners with flexibility (subject to
    availability) as to resort location, length of stay, unit type
    and time of year. The points-or credits-based reservation
    systems offer owners redemption opportunities for other travel
    and leisure products that may be offered from time to time, and
    the opportunity for owners to use our products for one or more
    vacations per year based on level of ownership. Our vacation
    ownership programs allow us to market and sell our vacation
    ownership products in variable quantities as opposed to the
    fixed quantity of the traditional, fixed-week vacation
    ownership, which is primarily sold on a weekly interval basis,
    and to offer to existing owners “upgrade” sales to
    supplement such owners’ existing vacation ownership
    interests. Although we operate Wyndham Vacation Resorts and
    WorldMark by Wyndham as separate brands, we have integrated
    substantially all of the business functions of Wyndham Vacation
    Resorts and WorldMark by Wyndham, including consumer finance,
    information technology, certain staff functions, product
    development and certain marketing activities.


 


    Our vacation ownership business derives a majority of its
    revenues from sales of vacation ownership interests and derives
    other revenues from consumer financing and property management.
    Because revenues from sales of vacation ownership interests and
    consumer finance in connection with such sales depend on the
    number of vacation ownership units in which we sell vacation
    ownership interests, increasing the number of such units is
    important in achieving our revenue goals. Because revenues from
    property management depend on the number of units we manage,
    increasing the number of such units has a direct effect of
    increasing our revenues from property management.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing of Vacation Ownership Interests


 


    Vacation Ownership Interests, Portfolio of Resorts and
    Maintenance Fees. The vacation ownership interests
    that Wyndham Vacation Resorts markets and sells consist
    primarily of undivided interests that entitle an owner to
    ownership and usage rights that are not restricted to a
    particular week of the year. As of December 31, 2010, over
    519,000 owners held interests in Wyndham Vacation Resorts resort
    properties. Wyndham Vacation Resorts properties





    
    19



Table of Contents





    are located primarily in the U.S. and, as of
    December 31, 2010, consisted of 76 resorts (six of which
    are shared with WorldMark by Wyndham) that represented
    approximately 13,200 units. During 2010, Wyndham Vacation
    Resorts opened new properties in Orlando, Florida and Myrtle
    Beach, South Carolina and added inventory at existing properties
    in Orlando, Florida.


 


    The majority of the resorts in which Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    develops, markets and sells vacation ownership and other real
    estate interests are destination resorts that are located at or
    near attractions such as the Walt Disney
    World®

    Resort in Florida; the Las Vegas Strip in Nevada; Myrtle Beach
    in South Carolina; Colonial
    Williamsburg®

    in Virginia; and the Hawaiian Islands. Most Wyndham Vacation
    Resorts properties are affiliated with Wyndham Worldwide’s
    vacation exchange business, RCI, which annually awards to the
    top 25-35%
    of RCI affiliated vacation ownership resorts throughout the
    world, designations of an RCI Gold Crown
    Resort®

    winner or an RCI Silver Crown
    Resort®

    winner for exceptional resort standards and service levels.
    Among Wyndham Vacation Resorts’ 76 resort properties, 57
    have been awarded designations of an RCI Gold Crown Resort
    winner or an RCI Silver Crown Resort winner.


 


    After WorldMark by Wyndham or Wyndham Asia Pacific develops or
    acquires resorts, it conveys the resorts to WorldMark, The Club
    or WorldMark South Pacific Club, which we refer collectively as
    the Clubs, as applicable. In exchange for the conveyances,
    WorldMark by Wyndham or Wyndham Asia Pacific receives the
    exclusive rights to sell the vacation credits associated with
    the conveyed resorts and to receive the proceeds from the sales
    of the vacation credits. Vacation ownership interests sold by
    WorldMark by Wyndham and Wyndham Asia Pacific represent credits
    in the Clubs which entitle the owner of the credits to reserve
    units at the resorts that are owned and operated by the Clubs.
    Although vacation credits, unlike vacation ownership interests
    in Wyndham Vacation Resorts resort properties, do not constitute
    deeded interests in real estate, vacation credits are regulated
    in most jurisdictions by the same agency that regulates vacation
    ownership interests evidenced by deeded interests in real
    estate. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 295,000
    owners held vacation credits in the Clubs.


 


    WorldMark by Wyndham resorts are located primarily in the
    Western U.S., Canada, Mexico and the South Pacific and, as of
    December 31, 2010, consisted of 92 resorts (six of which
    are shared with Wyndham Vacation Resorts) that represented
    approximately 7,300 units. Of the WorldMark by Wyndham
    resorts and units, Wyndham Asia Pacific has a total of 21
    resorts with approximately 800 units. During 2010,
    WorldMark by Wyndham opened new properties in Australia and
    added inventory at existing properties located in Australia and
    New Zealand.


 


    The resorts in which WorldMark by Wyndham develops, markets and
    sells vacation credits are primarily drive-to resorts. Most
    WorldMark by Wyndham resorts are affiliated with Wyndham
    Worldwide’s vacation exchange subsidiary, RCI. Among
    WorldMark by Wyndham’s 92 resorts, 62 have been awarded
    designations of an RCI Gold Crown Resort winner or an RCI Silver
    Crown Resort winner.


 


    Owners of vacation ownership interests pay annual maintenance
    fees to the property owners’ associations responsible for
    managing the applicable resorts or to the Clubs. The annual
    maintenance fee associated with the average vacation ownership
    interest purchased ranges from approximately $400 to
    approximately $900. These fees generally are used to renovate
    and replace furnishings, pay operating, maintenance and cleaning
    costs, pay management fees and expenses, and cover taxes (in
    some states), insurance and other related costs. Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership, as the owner of unsold inventory at resorts
    or unsold interests in the Clubs, also pays maintenance fees in
    accordance with the legal requirements of the states or
    jurisdictions in which the resorts are located. In addition, at
    certain newly-developed resorts, Wyndham Vacation Ownership
    sometimes enters into subsidy agreements with the property
    owners’ associations to cover costs that otherwise would be
    covered by annual maintenance fees payable with respect to
    vacation ownership interests that have not yet been sold.


 


    Club Wyndham Plus. Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    uses a points-based internal reservation system called Club
    Wyndham Plus (formerly known as FairShare Plus) to provide
    owners with flexibility (subject to availability) as to resort
    location, length of stay, unit type and time of year. With the
    launch of Club Wyndham Plus in 1991, Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    became one of the first U.S. developers of vacation
    ownership properties to move from traditional, fixed-week
    vacation ownership to a points-based program. Owners of vacation
    ownership interests in Wyndham Vacation Resorts properties that
    are eligible to participate in the program may elect, and with
    respect to certain resorts are obligated, to participate in Club
    Wyndham Plus.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Resorts currently offers two vacation ownership
    programs, Club Wyndham Select and Club Wyndham Access. Club
    Wyndham Select owners purchase an undivided interest at a select
    resort and receive a deed to that resort, which becomes their
    “home” resort. Club Wyndham Access owners do not
    directly receive a deed, but own an interest in a perpetual
    club. Through Club Wyndham Plus, Club Wyndham Access owners have
    advanced reservation priority access to the multiple Wyndham
    Vacation Resorts locations based on the amount of inventory
    deeded to Club Wyndham Access. Both vacation ownership options
    utilize Club Wyndham Plus as the internal exchange program to
    expand owners’ vacation opportunities.




    
    20



Table of Contents





    Owners who participate in Club Wyndham Plus assign their use
    rights to a trust in exchange for the right to reserve in the
    internal reservation system. The number of points that an owner
    receives as a result of the assignment to the trust of the
    owner’s use rights, and the number of points required to
    take a particular vacation, is set forth on a published schedule
    and varies depending on the resort location, length of stay,
    unit type and time of year associated with the interests
    assigned to the trust or requested by the owner, as applicable.
    Participants in Club Wyndham Plus may choose (subject to
    availability) the Wyndham Vacation Resorts resort properties,
    length of stay, unit types and times of year, depending on the
    number of points to which they are entitled and the number of
    points required to take the vacations of their preference.
    Participants in the program may redeem their points not only for
    resort stays, but also for other travel and leisure products
    that may be offered from time to time. Owners of vacation points
    are able to borrow vacation points from the next year for use in
    the current year. Wyndham Vacation Resorts offers various
    programs that provide existing owners with the opportunity to
    “upgrade,” or acquire additional vacation ownership
    interests to increase the number of points such owners can use
    in Club Wyndham Plus.


 


    WorldMark, The Club and WorldMark South Pacific
    Club. The Clubs provide owners of vacation credits
    with flexibility (subject to availability) as to resort
    location, length of stay, unit type and time of year. Depending
    on how many vacation credits an owner has purchased, the owner
    may use the vacation credits for one or more vacations annually.
    The number of vacation credits that are required for each
    day’s stay at a unit is listed on a published schedule and
    varies depending upon the resort location, unit type, time of
    year and the day of the week. Owners may also redeem their
    credits for other travel and leisure products that may be
    offered from time to time.


 


    Owners of vacation credits are also able to purchase bonus time
    from the Clubs for use when space is available. Bonus time gives
    owners the opportunity to use available resorts on short notice
    and at a reduced rate and to obtain usage beyond owners’
    allotments of vacation credits. In addition, WorldMark by
    Wyndham offers owners the opportunity to “upgrade,” or
    acquire additional vacation credits to increase the number of
    credits such owners can use in the Clubs.


 


    Owners of vacation credits can make reservations through the
    Clubs, or may elect to join and exchange their vacation
    ownership interests through Wyndham’s vacation exchange
    business, RCI, or other third-party international exchange
    companies.


 



    Property
    Management


 


    Program, Property and Club Management. In
    exchange for management fees, Wyndham Vacation Resorts, itself
    or through a Wyndham Vacation Resorts affiliate, manages Club
    Wyndham Plus, the majority of property owners’ associations
    at resorts in which Wyndham Vacation Resorts develops, markets
    and sells vacation ownership interests, and property
    owners’ associations at resorts developed by third parties.
    On behalf of Club Wyndham Plus, Wyndham Vacation Resorts or its
    affiliate manages the reservation system for Club Wyndham Plus
    and provides owner services and billing and collections
    services. The term of the trust agreement of Club Wyndham Plus
    runs through December 31, 2025, and the term is
    automatically extended for successive ten year periods unless a
    majority of the members of the program vote to terminate the
    trust agreement prior to the expiration of the term then in
    effect. The term of the management agreement, under which
    Wyndham Vacation Resorts manages the Club Wyndham Plus program,
    is for five years and is automatically renewed annually for
    successive terms of five years, provided the trustee under the
    program does not serve notice of termination to Wyndham Vacation
    Resorts at the end of any calendar year. On behalf of property
    owners’ associations, Wyndham Vacation Resorts or its
    affiliates generally provide day-to-day management for vacation
    ownership resorts, including oversight of housekeeping services,
    maintenance and refurbishment of the units, and provides certain
    accounting and administrative services to property owners’
    associations.


 


    We receive fees for such property management services which are
    generally based upon total costs to operate such resorts. Fees
    for property management services typically approximate 10% of
    budgeted operating expenses. We incur certain reimbursable costs
    which principally relate to the payroll costs for management of
    the associations, club and resort properties where we are the
    employer. Property management revenues were $405 million,
    $376 million, and $346 million during 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. Property management revenue is comprised of
    management fee revenue and reimbursable revenue. Management fee
    revenues were $183 million, $170 million and
    $159 million during 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.
    Reimbursable revenues were $222 million, $206 million,
    and $187 million respectively during 2010, 2009, and 2008.
    Reimbursable revenues are based upon cost with no added margin
    and thus, have little or no impact on our operating income. The
    terms of the property management agreements with the property
    owners’ associations at resorts in which Wyndham Vacation
    Resorts develops, markets and sells vacation ownership interests
    vary; however, the vast majority of the agreements provide a
    mechanism for automatic renewal upon expiration of the terms. At
    some established sites, the property owners’ associations
    have entered into property management agreements with
    professional management companies other than Wyndham Vacation
    Resorts or its affiliates.




    
    21



Table of Contents





    In exchange for management fees, WorldMark by Wyndham, itself or
    through a WorldMark by Wyndham affiliate, serves as the
    exclusive property manager and servicing agent of the Clubs and
    all resort units owned or operated by the Clubs. On behalf of
    the Clubs, WorldMark by Wyndham or its affiliate provides
    day-to-day management for vacation ownership resorts, including
    oversight of housekeeping services, maintenance and
    refurbishment of the units, and provides certain accounting and
    administrative services. WorldMark by Wyndham or its affiliate
    also manages the reservation system for the Clubs and provides
    owner services and billing and collections services.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing Channels and Programs


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership employs a variety of marketing
    channels as part of Wyndham Vacation Resorts and WorldMark by
    Wyndham marketing programs to encourage prospective owners of
    vacation ownership interests to tour Wyndham Vacation Ownership
    properties and attend sales presentations at off-site sales
    offices. Our resort-based sales centers also enable us to
    actively solicit upgrade sales to existing owners of vacation
    ownership interests while such owners vacation at our resort
    properties. Sales of vacation ownership interests relating to
    upgrades represented approximately 68%, 64% and 51% of our net
    sales of vacation ownership interests during 2010, 2009 and
    2008, respectively.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership uses a variety of marketing programs
    to attract prospective owners, including sponsored contests that
    offer vacation packages or gifts, targeted mailings, outbound
    and inbound telemarketing efforts, and in association with
    Wyndham Worldwide hotel brands, associated loyalty and other
    co-branded marketing programs and events. Wyndham Vacation
    Ownership also co-sponsors sweepstakes, giveaways and
    promotional programs with professional teams at major sporting
    events and with other third parties at other high-traffic
    consumer events. Where permissible under state law, Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership offers existing owners cash awards or other
    incentives for referrals of new owners. New owner acquisition is
    an important strategy for Wyndham Vacation Ownership in order to
    continue to build our pool of “lifetime” buyers of
    vacation ownership. New owners will enable Wyndham Vacation
    Ownership to solicit upgrade sales in the future. During 2010,
    we added approximately 22,000 new owners to our pool of
    “lifetime” buyers which may ultimately become repeat
    buyers of vacation ownership interests as they upgrade.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s marketing and sales activities
    are often facilitated through marketing alliances with other
    travel, hospitality, entertainment, gaming and retail companies
    that provide access to such companies’ present and past
    customers through a variety of co-branded marketing offers.
    Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s resort-based sales centers,
    which are located in popular travel destinations throughout the
    U.S., generate substantial tour flow through providing local
    offers. The sales centers enable Wyndham Vacation Ownership to
    market to tourists already visiting destination areas. Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership’s marketing agents, which often operate
    on the premises of the hospitality, entertainment, gaming and
    retail companies with which Wyndham Vacation Ownership has
    alliances within these markets, solicit local tourists with
    offers relating to activities and entertainment in exchange for
    the tourists visiting the local resorts and attending sales
    presentations.


 


    An example of a marketing alliance through which Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership markets to tourists already visiting
    destination areas is Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s current
    arrangement with Harrah’s Entertainment in Las Vegas,
    Nevada, which enables Wyndham Vacation Ownership to operate
    concierge-style marketing kiosks throughout Harrah’s Casino
    that permit Wyndham Vacation Ownership to solicit patrons to
    attend tours and sales presentations with Harrah’s-related
    rewards and entertainment offers, such as gaming chips, show
    tickets and dining certificates. Wyndham Vacation Ownership also
    operates its primary Las Vegas sales center within Harrah’s
    Casino and regularly shuttles prospective owners targeted by
    such sales centers to and from Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s
    nearby resort property.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership offers a variety of entry-level
    programs and products as part of its sales strategies. One such
    program allows prospective owners to acquire one-year’s
    worth of points or credits with no further obligations; another
    such product is a biennial interest that provides for vacations
    every other year. As part of its sales strategies, Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership relies on its points/credits-based programs,
    which provide prospective owners with the flexibility to buy
    relatively small packages of points or credits, which can be
    upgraded at a later date. To facilitate upgrades among existing
    owners, Wyndham Vacation Ownership markets opportunities for
    owners to purchase additional points or credits through periodic
    marketing campaigns and promotions to owners while those owners
    vacation at Wyndham Vacation Ownership resort properties.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s resort-based sales centers
    also enable Wyndham Vacation Ownership to actively market
    upgrade sales to existing owners of vacation ownership interests
    while such owners vacation at Wyndham Vacation Ownership resort
    properties. In addition, we also operate a telesales program
    designed to market upgrade sales to existing owners of our
    products.




    
    22



Table of Contents






    Purchaser
    Financing


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership offers financing to purchasers of
    vacation ownership interests. By offering consumer financing, we
    are able to reduce the initial cash required by customers to
    purchase vacation ownership interests, thereby enabling us to
    attract additional customers and generate substantial
    incremental revenues and profits. Wyndham Vacation Ownership
    funds and services loans extended by Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    and WorldMark by Wyndham through our consumer financing
    subsidiary, Wyndham Consumer Finance, a wholly owned subsidiary
    of Wyndham Vacation Resorts based in Las Vegas, Nevada that
    performs loan financing, servicing and related administrative
    functions.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership typically performs a credit
    investigation or other review or inquiry into every
    purchaser’s credit history before offering to finance a
    portion of the purchase price of the vacation ownership
    interest. The interest rate offered to participating purchasers
    is determined by an automated underwriting based upon the
    purchaser’s credit score, the amount of the down payment
    and the size of purchase. Wyndham Vacation Ownership uses a FICO
    score which is a branded version of a consumer credit score
    widely used within the U.S. by the largest banks and
    lending institutions. FICO scores range from 300 — 850
    and are calculated based on information obtained from one or
    more of the three major U.S. credit reporting agencies that
    compile and report on a consumer’s credit history. Our
    weighted average FICO score on new originations for 2010 and
    2009 was approximately 725, reflecting an approximate 30 point
    increase since the Company’s realignment in 2008. Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership offers purchasers an interest rate reduction
    if they participate in our pre-authorized checking programs,
    pursuant to which our consumer financing subsidiary each month
    debits a purchaser’s bank account or major credit card in
    the amount of the monthly payment by a pre-authorized fund
    transfer on the payment date.


 


    During 2010, we generated new receivables of $983 million
    on gross vacation ownership sales, net of WAAM sales, of
    $1.4 billion, which amounts to 70% of vacation ownership
    sales being financed. However, the 70% is prior to the receipt
    of addenda cash. Addenda cash represents the cash received for
    full payment of a loan within 15 to 60 days of origination.
    After the application of addenda cash, approximately 56% of
    vacation ownership sales are financed, with the remaining 44%
    being cash sales.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership generally requires a minimum down
    payment of 10% of the purchase price on all sales of vacation
    ownership interests and offer consumer financing for the
    remaining balance for up to ten years. While the minimum is
    generally 10%, during 2010, our average down payment was
    approximately 23% for financed sales of vacation ownership
    interests. These loans are structured so that we receive equal
    monthly installments that fully amortize the principal due by
    the final due date.


 


    Similar to other companies that provide consumer financing, we
    historically securitize a majority of the receivables originated
    in connection with the sales of vacation ownership interests. We
    initially place the financed contracts into a revolving
    warehouse securitization facility generally within 30 to
    90 days after origination. Many of the receivables are
    subsequently transferred from the warehouse securitization
    facility and placed into term securitization facilities.


 



    Servicing
    and Collection Procedures


 


    Our consumer financing subsidiary is responsible for the
    maintenance of contract receivables files and all customer
    service, billing and collection activities related to the
    domestic loans we extend. We assess the performance of our loan
    portfolio by monitoring numerous metrics including collections
    rates, defaults by state residency and bankruptcies. Our
    consumer financing subsidiary also manages the selection and
    processing of loans pledged or to be pledged in our warehouse
    and term securitization facilities. As of December 31,
    2010, our loan portfolio was 95.4% current (i.e., not more than
    30 days past due).


 



    Strategies


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership is strategically focused on the
    following objectives that we believe are essential to our
    business:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        maximize cash flow;




 



        •       
    

        further strengthening the financial profile of the business
    through the continued development of our asset light business
    model;




 



        •       
    

        drive greater sales and marketing efficiencies at all
    levels; and




 



        •       
    

        delivering “Count On Me!” service to our customers,
    partners and associates.





 


    Manage for Cash Flow. We plan to increasingly
    manage our business for cash flow by improving the quality of
    our loan portfolio through maintaining more restrictive
    financing terms for customers that fall within lower credit
    classifications, seeking higher down payments at the time of
    sale and strengthening the effectiveness of our collections
    efforts. We will continue to streamline our balance sheet
    through controlled development spending and selling through our
    existing finished inventory. Additionally, we will continue to
    generate recurring income





    
    23



Table of Contents





    associated with (i) property management fees,
    (ii) interest income from our large pool of receivables,
    and (iii) upgrade sales from our deeply loyal customer base.


 


    Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model
    (“WAAM”). We also plan to expand our
    fee-for-service timeshare sales model designed to capitalize
    upon the large quantities of newly developed, nearly completed
    or recently finished condominium or hotel inventory within the
    current real estate market without assuming the significant cost
    that accompanies new construction. This business model offers
    turn-key solutions for developers or banks in possession of
    newly developed inventory, which we sell for a fee through our
    extensive sales and marketing channels. WAAM enables us to
    expand our resort portfolio with little or no capital
    deployment, while providing additional channels for new owner
    acquisition and growth for our fee-for-service consumer
    financing, servicing operations and property management
    business. During 2010, we commenced sales in connection with two
    WAAM projects — one in South Carolina and another in
    Florida and in early 2011, we signed two additional WAAM
    projects — one in Vermont and another on the Florida
    Gulf coast. In 2010, we had $51 million in WAAM sales which
    represents 3% of gross VOI sales. We expect to have WAAM sales
    of approximately 15% to 20% of gross VOI sales within the next
    several years.


 


    Drive Greater Sales and Marketing
    Efficiency. We plan to drive greater sales and
    marketing efficiencies by aggressively applying strengthened
    tour qualification standards. We expect to thus limit our
    marketing activities to only the highest quality prospects both
    in terms of such persons’ interest in purchasing our
    products and their demonstrated ability to self-finance
    and/or
    qualify for our more restrictive financing terms.


 


    We will continue to focus our efforts on current owners, who are
    our most reliable marketing prospects and the most efficient
    from a marketing standpoint, as well as highly qualified
    prospect categories including certain existing Wyndham Hotel
    Group customers and consumers affiliated with the Wyndham
    Rewards and Wyndham By Request loyalty programs, for example. We
    are also focusing our efforts on new owner acquisition as this
    will continue to build our pool of “lifetime” buyers
    of vacation ownership. We believe this market is underpenetrated
    and estimate there are 53 million households which we
    consider as potential purchasers of vacation ownership
    interests. During 2010, we added approximately 22,000 new owners
    to our pool of “lifetime” buyers. We will also seek to
    develop and market mixed-use hotel and vacation ownership
    properties in conjunction with the Wyndham brand. The mixed-use
    properties would afford us access to both hotel clients in
    higher income demographics for the purpose of marketing vacation
    ownership interests and hotel inventory for use in our marketing
    programs.


 



    Delivering
    “Count On Me!” Service


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership is committed to providing exceptional
    customer service to its owners and guests at every interaction.
    We consistently monitor our progress by inviting service
    feedback at key customer touch points, including point of sale,
    post-vacation experience, and annual owner surveys, which gauge
    service performance in a variety of areas and identify
    improvement opportunities. The Company’s service culture
    also extends to associates, who make are committed to be
    responsive, be respectful, and to deliver a great experience to
    owners, guests, partners, our communities and each other.


 



    Seasonality


 


    We rely, in part, upon tour flow to generate sales of vacation
    ownership interests; consequently, sales volume tends to
    increase in the spring and summer months as a result of greater
    tour flow from spring and summer travelers. Revenues from sales
    of vacation ownership interests therefore are generally higher
    in the second and third quarters than in other quarters. We
    cannot predict whether these seasonal trends will continue in
    the future.


 



    Competition


 


    The vacation ownership industry is highly competitive and is
    comprised of a number of companies specializing primarily in
    sales and marketing, consumer financing, property management and
    development of vacation ownership properties. In addition, a
    number of national hospitality chains develop and sell vacation
    ownership interests to consumers.


 



    TRADEMARKS


 


    Our brand names and related trademarks, service marks, logos and
    trade names are very important to the businesses that make up
    our Wyndham Hotel Group, Wyndham Exchange & Rentals,
    and Wyndham Vacation Ownership business units. Our subsidiaries
    actively use or license for use all significant marks, and we
    own or have exclusive licenses to use these marks. We register
    the marks that we own in the United States Patent and Trademark
    Office, as well as with other relevant authorities where we deem
    appropriate, and seek to protect our marks from unauthorized use
    as permitted by law.




    
    24



Table of Contents






    EMPLOYEES


 


    As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately
    26,400 employees, including approximately
    8,100 employees outside of the U.S. As of
    December 31, 2010, our lodging business had approximately
    4,000 employees, our vacation exchange and rentals business
    had approximately 8,600 employees and our vacation
    ownership business had approximately 13,300 employees.
    Approximately 1% of our employees are subject to collective
    bargaining agreements governing their employment with our
    company. We believe that our relations with employees are good.


 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    COMPLIANCE


 


    Our compliance with laws and regulations relating to
    environmental protection and discharge of hazardous materials
    has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures,
    earnings or competitive position, and we do not anticipate any
    material impact from such compliance in the future.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Before you invest in our securities you should carefully
    consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other
    information provided in this report. We believe that the
    following information identifies the most significant risks that
    may impact us. However, the risks and uncertainties we face are
    not limited to those set forth in the risk factors described
    below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to
    us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also
    adversely affect our business. In addition, past financial
    performance may not be a reliable indicator of future
    performance and historical trends should not be used to
    anticipate results or trends in future periods. If any of the
    following risks and uncertainties develops into an actual event,
    the event could have a material adverse effect on our business,
    financial condition or results of operations. In such case, the
    trading price of our common stock could decline.


 



    The
    hospitality industry is highly competitive and we are subject to
    risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our
    performance.


 


    We will be adversely impacted if we cannot compete effectively
    in the highly competitive hospitality industry. Our continued
    success depends upon our ability to compete effectively in
    markets that contain numerous competitors, some of which may
    have significantly greater financial, marketing and other
    resources than we have. Competition may reduce fee structures,
    potentially causing us to lower our fees or prices, which may
    adversely impact our profits. New competition or existing
    competition that uses a business model that is different from
    our business model may put pressure on us to change our model so
    that we can remain competitive.


 



    Our
    revenues are highly dependent on the travel industry and
    declines in or disruptions to the travel industry, such as those
    caused by economic slowdown, terrorism, acts of God and war may
    adversely affect us.


 


    Declines in or disruptions to the travel industry may adversely
    impact us. Risks affecting the travel industry include: economic
    slowdown and recession; economic factors, such as increased
    costs of living and reduced discretionary income, adversely
    impacting consumers’ and businesses’ decisions to use
    and consume travel services and products; terrorist incidents
    and threats (and associated heightened travel security
    measures); political strife; acts of God (such as earthquakes,
    hurricanes, fires, floods, volcanoes and other natural
    disasters); war; pandemics or threat of pandemics (such as the
    H1N1 flu); environmental disasters (such as the Gulf of Mexico
    oil spill); increased pricing, financial instability and
    capacity constraints of air carriers; airline job actions and
    strikes; and increases in gasoline and other fuel prices.


 



    We are
    subject to operating or other risks common to the hospitality
    industry.


 


    Our business is subject to numerous operating or other risks
    common to the hospitality industry including:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        changes in operating costs, including inflation, energy, labor
    costs (including minimum wage increases and unionization),
    workers’ compensation and health-care related costs and
    insurance;




 



        •       
    

        changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or
    resorts in our business;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the supply and demand for hotel rooms, vacation
    exchange and rental services and vacation ownership services and
    products;




 



        •       
    

        seasonality in our businesses may cause fluctuations in our
    operating results;




 



        •       
    

        geographic concentrations of our operations and customers;




 



        •       
    

        increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset
    by price and fee increases in our business;







    
    25



Table of Contents




 




    
    



        •       
    

        availability of acceptable financing and cost of capital as they
    apply to us, our customers, current and potential hotel
    franchisees and developers, owners of hotels with which we have
    hotel management contracts, our RCI affiliates and other
    developers of vacation ownership resorts;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to securitize the receivables that we originate in
    connection with sales of vacation ownership interests;




 



        •       
    

        the risk that purchasers of vacation ownership interests who
    finance a portion of the purchase price default on their loans
    due to adverse macro or personal economic conditions or
    otherwise, which would increase loan loss reserves and adversely
    affect loan portfolio performance; that if such defaults occur
    during the early part of the loan amortization period we will
    not have recovered the marketing, selling, administrative and
    other costs associated with such vacation ownership interest;
    such costs will be incurred again in connection with the resale
    of the repossessed vacation ownership interest; and the value we
    recover in a default is not, in all instances, sufficient to
    cover the outstanding debt;




 



        •       
    

        the quality of the services provided by franchisees, our
    vacation exchange and rentals business, resorts with units that
    are exchanged through our vacation exchange business
    and/or
    resorts in which we sell vacation ownership interests may
    adversely affect our image and reputation;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to generate sufficient cash to buy from third-party
    suppliers the products that we need to provide to the
    participants in our points programs who want to redeem points
    for such products;




 



        •       
    

        overbuilding in one or more segments of the hospitality industry
    and/or in
    one or more geographic regions;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the number and occupancy and room rates of hotels
    operating under franchise and management agreements;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the relative mix of franchised hotels in the various
    lodging industry price categories;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to develop and maintain positive relations and
    contractual arrangements with current and potential franchisees,
    hotel owners, vacation exchange members, vacation ownership
    interest owners, resorts with units that are exchanged through
    our vacation exchange business
    and/or
    owners of vacation properties that our vacation rentals business
    markets for rental;




 



        •       
    

        the availability of and competition for desirable sites for the
    development of vacation ownership properties; difficulties
    associated with obtaining entitlements to develop vacation
    ownership properties; liability under state and local laws with
    respect to any construction defects in the vacation ownership
    properties we develop; and our ability to adjust our pace of
    completion of resort development relative to the pace of our
    sales of the underlying vacation ownership interests;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to adjust our business model to generate greater
    cash flow and require less capital expenditures;




 



        •       
    

        private resale of vacation ownership interests could adversely
    affect our vacation ownership resorts and vacation exchange
    businesses;




 



        •       
    

        revenues from our lodging business are indirectly affected by
    our franchisees’ pricing decisions;




 



        •       
    

        organized labor activities and associated litigation;




 



        •       
    

        maintenance and infringement of our intellectual property;




 



        •       
    

        the bankruptcy or insolvency of any one of our customers could
    impair our ability to collect outstanding fees or other amounts
    due or otherwise exercise our contractual rights;




 



        •       
    

        increases in the use of third-party Internet services to book
    online hotel reservations; and




 



        •       
    

        disruptions in relationships with third parties, including
    marketing alliances and affiliations with
    e-commerce
    channels.





 



    We may
    not be able to achieve our growth objectives.


 


    We may not be able to achieve our growth objectives for
    increasing our cash flows, the number of franchised
    and/or
    managed properties in our lodging business, the number of
    vacation exchange members in our vacation exchange business, the
    number of rental weeks sold by our vacation rentals business and
    the number of tours generated and vacation ownership interests
    sold by our vacation ownership business.


 


    We may be unable to identify acquisition targets that complement
    our businesses, and if we are able to identify suitable
    acquisition targets, we may not be able to complete acquisitions
    on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to complete
    acquisitions depends on a variety of factors, including our
    ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and requisite
    government approvals. If we are able to complete acquisitions,
    there is no assurance





    
    26



Table of Contents





    that we will be able to achieve the revenue and cost benefits
    that we expected in connection with such acquisitions or to
    successfully integrate the acquired businesses into our existing
    operations.


 



    Our
    international operations are subject to risks not generally
    applicable to our domestic operations.


 


    Our international operations are subject to numerous risks
    including exposure to local economic conditions; potential
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the U.S.; hostility from local populations; restrictions
    and taxes on the withdrawal of foreign investment and earnings;
    government policies against businesses owned by foreigners;
    investment restrictions or requirements; diminished ability to
    legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign countries;
    foreign exchange restrictions; fluctuations in foreign currency
    exchange rates; local laws might conflict with U.S. laws;
    withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by
    subsidiaries; and changes in and application of foreign taxation
    structures including value added taxes.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to litigation filed by or against
    us.


 


    We are subject to a number of legal actions and the risk of
    future litigation as described under “Legal
    Proceedings”. We cannot predict with certainty the ultimate
    outcome and related damages and costs of litigation and other
    proceedings filed by or against us. Adverse results in
    litigation and other proceedings may harm our business.


 



    We are
    subject to certain risks related to our indebtedness, hedging
    transactions, our securitization of assets, our surety bond
    requirements, the cost and availability of capital and the
    extension of credit by us.


 


    We are a borrower of funds under our credit facilities, credit
    lines, senior notes and securitization financings. We extend
    credit when we finance purchases of vacation ownership
    interests. We use financial instruments to reduce or hedge our
    financial exposure to the effects of currency and interest rate
    fluctuations. We are required to post surety bonds in connection
    with our development activities. In connection with our debt
    obligations, hedging transactions, the securitization of certain
    of our assets, our surety bond requirements, the cost and
    availability of capital and the extension of credit by us, we
    are subject to numerous risks including:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        our cash flows from operations or available lines of credit may
    be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and
    interest, which could result in a default and acceleration of
    the underlying debt;




 



        •       
    

        if we are unable to comply with the terms of the financial
    covenants under our revolving credit facility, including a
    breach of the financial ratios or tests, such non-compliance
    could result in a default and acceleration of the underlying
    revolver debt and under other debt instruments that contain
    cross-default provisions;




 



        •       
    

        our leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain
    additional financing;




 



        •       
    

        our leverage may require the dedication of a significant portion
    of our cash flows to the payment of principal and interest thus
    reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital,
    capital expenditures or other operating needs;




 



        •       
    

        increases in interest rates;




 



        •       
    

        rating agency downgrades for our debt that could increase our
    borrowing costs;




 



        •       
    

        failure or non-performance of counterparties for foreign
    exchange and interest rate hedging transactions;




 



        •       
    

        we may not be able to securitize our vacation ownership contract
    receivables on terms acceptable to us because of, among other
    factors, the performance of the vacation ownership contract
    receivables, adverse conditions in the market for vacation
    ownership loan-backed notes and asset-backed notes in general
    and the risk that the actual amount of uncollectible accounts on
    our securitized vacation ownership contract receivables and
    other credit we extend is greater than expected;




 



        •       
    

        our securitizations contain portfolio performance triggers
    which, if violated, may result in a disruption or loss of cash
    flow from such transactions;




 



        •       
    

        a reduction in commitments from surety bond providers may impair
    our vacation ownership business by requiring us to escrow cash
    in order to meet regulatory requirements of certain states;




 



        •       
    

        prohibitive cost and inadequate availability of capital could
    restrict the development or acquisition of vacation ownership
    resorts by us and the financing of purchases of vacation
    ownership interests; and




 



        •       
    

        if interest rates increase significantly, we may not be able to
    increase the interest rate offered to finance purchases of
    vacation ownership interests by the same amount of the increase.







    
    27



Table of Contents




 



    Economic
    conditions affecting the hospitality industry, the global
    economy and credit markets generally may adversely affect our
    business and results of operations, our ability to obtain
    financing and/or securitize our receivables on reasonable and
    acceptable terms, the performance of our loan portfolio and the
    market price of our common stock.


 


    The future economic environment for the hospitality industry and
    the global economy may continue to be challenged. The
    hospitality industry has experienced and may continue to
    experience significant downturns in connection with, or in
    anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. The
    current economy has been characterized by higher unemployment,
    lower family income, lower business investment and lower
    consumer spending, leading to lower demand for hospitality
    services and products. Declines in consumer and commercial
    spending may adversely affect our revenues and profits.


 


    Uncertainty in the equity and credit markets may negatively
    affect our ability to access short-term and long-term financing
    on reasonable terms or at all, which would negatively impact our
    liquidity and financial condition. In addition, if one or more
    of the financial institutions that support our existing credit
    facilities fails, we may not be able to find a replacement,
    which would negatively impact our ability to borrow under the
    credit facilities. Disruptions in the financial markets may
    adversely affect our credit rating and the market value of our
    common stock. If we are unable to refinance, if necessary, our
    outstanding debt when due, our results of operations and
    financial condition will be materially and adversely affected.


 


    While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet
    our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service
    and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our cash
    flow or capital resources prove inadequate we could face
    liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect
    our results of operations and financial condition.


 


    Our liquidity as it relates to our vacation ownership contract
    receivables securitization program could be adversely affected
    if we were to fail to renew or replace our securitization
    warehouse conduit facility on its renewal date or if a
    particular receivables pool were to fail to meet certain ratios,
    which could occur in certain instances if the default rates or
    other credit metrics of the underlying vacation ownership
    contract receivables deteriorate. Our ability to sell securities
    backed by our vacation ownership contract receivables depends on
    the continued ability and willingness of capital market
    participants to invest in such securities. It is possible that
    asset-backed securities issued pursuant to our securitization
    programs could in the future be downgraded by credit agencies.
    If a downgrade occurs, our ability to complete other
    securitization transactions on acceptable terms or at all could
    be jeopardized, and we could be forced to rely on other
    potentially more expensive and less attractive funding sources,
    to the extent available, which would decrease our profitability
    and may require us to adjust our business operations
    accordingly, including reducing or suspending our financing to
    purchasers of vacation ownership interests.


 



    Our
    businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of
    compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may
    adversely affect us.


 


    Our businesses are heavily regulated by federal, state and local
    governments in the countries in which our operations are
    conducted. In addition, domestic and foreign federal, state and
    local regulators may enact new laws and regulations that may
    reduce our revenues, cause our expenses to increase
    and/or
    require us to modify substantially our business practices. If we
    are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations,
    including, among others, those governing franchising, timeshare,
    lending, privacy, marketing and sales, unfair and deceptive
    trade practices, telemarketing, licensing, labor, employment,
    health care, health and safety, accessibility, immigration,
    gaming, environmental (including climate change), and
    regulations applicable under the Office of Foreign Asset Control
    and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (and local equivalents in
    international jurisdictions), we may be subject to regulatory
    investigations or actions, fines, penalties and potential
    criminal prosecution.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to corporate responsibility.


 


    Many factors influence our reputation and the value of our
    brands including perceptions of us held by our key stakeholders
    and the communities in which we do business. Businesses face
    increasing scrutiny of the social and environmental impact of
    their actions and there is a risk of damage to our reputation
    and the value of our brands if we fail to act responsibly or
    comply with regulatory requirements in a number of areas such as
    safety and security, sustainability, responsible tourism,
    environmental management, human rights and support for local
    communities.


 



    We are
    dependent on our senior management.


 


    We believe that our future growth depends, in part, on the
    continued services of our senior management team. Losing the
    services of any members of our senior management team could
    adversely affect our strategic and customer relationships and
    impede our ability to execute our business strategies.




    
    28



Table of Contents






    Our
    inability to adequately protect and maintain our intellectual
    property could adversely affect our business.


 


    Our inability to adequately protect and maintain our trademarks,
    trade dress and other intellectual property rights could
    adversely affect our business. We generate, maintain, utilize
    and enforce a substantial portfolio of trademarks, trade dress
    and other intellectual property that are fundamental to the
    brands that we use in all of our businesses. There can be no
    assurance that the steps we take to protect our intellectual
    property will be adequate. Any event that materially damages the
    reputation of one or more of our brands could have an adverse
    impact on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from
    that brand. The value of any brand is influenced by a number of
    factors, including consumer preference and perception and our
    failure to ensure compliance with brand standards.


 



    Disasters,
    disruptions and other impairment of our information technologies
    and systems could adversely affect our business.


 


    Any disaster, disruption or other impairment in our technology
    capabilities could harm our business. Our businesses depend upon
    the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems,
    including technology and systems utilized for reservation
    systems, vacation exchange systems, hotel/property management,
    communications, procurement, member record databases, call
    centers, operation of our loyalty programs and administrative
    systems. The operation, maintenance and updating of these
    technologies and systems is dependent upon internal and
    third-party technologies, systems and services for which there
    is no assurance of uninterrupted availability or adequate
    protection.


 



    Failure
    to maintain the security of personally identifiable and other
    information, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal
    obligations regarding such information, or a violation of the
    Company’s privacy and security policies with respect to
    such information, could adversely affect us.


 


    In connection with our business, we and our service providers
    collect and retain significant volumes of certain types of
    personally identifiable and other information pertaining to our
    customers, stockholders and employees. The legal, regulatory and
    contractual environment surrounding information security and
    privacy is constantly evolving and the hospitality industry is
    under increasing attack by cyber-criminals in the U.S. and
    other jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant actual or
    potential theft, loss, fraudulent use or mis-use of
    customer, stockholder, employee or our data by cybercrime or
    otherwise, non-compliance with our contractual or other legal
    obligations regarding such data or a violation of our privacy
    and security policies with respect to such data could adversely
    impact our reputation and could result in significant costs,
    fines, litigation or regulatory action against us.


 



    The
    market price of our shares may fluctuate.


 


    The market price of our common stock may fluctuate depending
    upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control,
    including our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other
    companies in our industry; actual or anticipated fluctuations in
    our operating results due to seasonality and other factors
    related to our business; changes in accounting principles or
    rules; announcements by us or our competitors of significant
    acquisitions or dispositions; the failure of securities analysts
    to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by
    securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the
    operating and stock price performance of comparable companies;
    overall market fluctuations; and general economic conditions.
    Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has
    often been unrelated to the operating performance of a
    particular company. These broad market fluctuations may
    adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.


 



    Your
    percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in the
    future.


 


    Your percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in
    the future because of equity awards that we expect will be
    granted over time to our directors, officers and employees as
    well as due to the exercise of options. In addition, our Board
    may issue shares of our common and preferred stock, and debt
    securities convertible into shares of our common and preferred
    stock, up to certain regulatory thresholds without shareholder
    approval.


 



    Provisions
    in our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and under Delaware
    law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which
    could impact the trading price of our common stock.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law
    contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover
    practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices
    or bids unacceptably expensive and to encourage prospective
    acquirors to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a
    hostile takeover. These provisions include a Board of Directors
    that is divided into three classes with staggered terms;
    elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written
    consent; rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals
    or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the
    right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder
    approval; and limitations on the right of stockholders to remove
    directors. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and
    other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or
    more of our outstanding shares of common stock.




    
    29



Table of Contents






    We cannot
    provide assurance that we will continue to pay
    dividends.


 


    There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus
    under Delaware law to be able to continue to pay dividends. This
    may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses
    exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures,
    increases in reserves or lack of available capital. Our Board of
    Directors may also suspend the payment of dividends if the Board
    deems such action to be in the best interests of the Company or
    stockholders. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our
    common stock must appreciate for you to realize a gain on your
    investment in Wyndham Worldwide. This appreciation may not occur
    and our stock may in fact depreciate in value.


 



    We are
    responsible for certain of Cendant’s contingent and other
    corporate liabilities.


 


    Under the separation agreement and the tax sharing agreement
    that we executed with Cendant (now Avis Budget Group) and former
    Cendant units, Realogy and Travelport, we and Realogy generally
    are responsible for 37.5% and 62.5%, respectively, of certain of
    Cendant’s contingent and other corporate liabilities and
    associated costs, including certain contingent and other
    corporate liabilities of Cendant
    and/or its
    subsidiaries to the extent incurred on or prior to
    August 23, 2006, including liabilities relating to certain
    of Cendant’s terminated or divested businesses, the
    Travelport sale, the Cendant litigation described in this
    report, actions with respect to the separation plan and payments
    under certain contracts that were not allocated to any specific
    party in connection with the separation.


 


    If any party responsible for the liabilities described above
    were to default on its obligations, each non-defaulting party
    (including Avis Budget) would be required to pay an equal
    portion of the amounts in default. Accordingly, we could, under
    certain circumstances, be obligated to pay amounts in excess of
    our share of the assumed obligations related to such liabilities
    including associated costs. On or about April 10, 2007,
    Realogy Corporation was acquired by affiliates of Apollo
    Management VI, L.P. and its stock is no longer publicly traded.
    The acquisition does not negate Realogy’s obligation to
    satisfy 62.5% of such contingent and other corporate liabilities
    of Cendant or its subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of the
    separation agreement. As a result of the acquisition, however,
    Realogy has greater debt obligations and its ability to satisfy
    its portion of these liabilities may be adversely impacted. In
    accordance with the terms of the separation agreement, Realogy
    posted a letter of credit in April 2007 for our and
    Cendant’s benefit to cover its estimated share of the
    assumed liabilities discussed above, although there can be no
    assurance that such letter of credit will be sufficient to cover
    Realogy’s actual obligations if and when they arise.


 



    We may be
    required to write-off all or a portion of the remaining value of
    our goodwill or other intangibles of companies we have
    acquired.


 


    Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our
    intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment at least
    annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the
    carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be
    considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the
    carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may
    not be recoverable, include a sustained decline in our stock
    price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow
    estimates and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be
    required to record a significant non-cash impairment charge in
    our financial statements during the period in which any
    impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is
    determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and
    stockholders’ equity.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B