Item 1A. of this report. We
    caution readers that any such statements are based on currently
    available operational, financial and competitive information,
    and they should not place undue reliance on these
    forward-looking statements, which reflect management’s
    opinion only as of the date on which they were made. Except as
    required by law, we disclaim any obligation to review or update
    these forward-looking statements to reflect events or
    circumstances as they occur.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1.  

    
    BUSINESS





 



    OVERVIEW


 


    As one of the world’s largest hospitality companies, we
    offer individual consumers and business customers a broad suite
    of hospitality products and services across various
    accommodation alternatives and price ranges through our
    portfolio of world-renowned brands. With more than 20 brands,
    which include Wyndham Hotels and Resorts, Ramada, Days Inn,
    Super 8, Wyndham Rewards, Wingate by Wyndham, Microtel, RCI, The
    Registry Collection, Endless Vacation Rentals, Landal
    GreenParks, Cottages4You, Novasol, Wyndham Vacation Resorts and
    WorldMark by Wyndham, we have built a significant presence in
    most major hospitality markets in the United States and
    throughout the rest of the world.


 


    The hospitality industry is a major component of the travel
    industry, which is one of the largest retail industry segments
    of the global economy. We operate primarily in the lodging,
    vacation exchange and rentals, and vacation ownership segments
    of the hospitality industry. Nearly 60% of our revenues come
    from fees we receive in exchange for providing services and
    products. We refer to these as our
    “fee-for-service”
    businesses. For example, we receive fees in the form of
    royalties for our customers’ utilization of our brand names
    and for our provision of hotel and resort management and
    vacation exchange and rentals services. The remainder of our
    revenues comes from the proceeds received from sales of vacation
    ownership interests.


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Our lodging business is the world’s largest hotel company
    (based on number of properties), franchising in the upscale,
    midscale, economy and extended stay segments of the lodging
    industry and providing hotel management services for
    full-service hotels globally. This is predominately a
    fee-for-service
    business that provides recurring revenue streams, requires low
    capital investment and produces strong cash flow;




 



        •       
    

        Our vacation exchange and rentals business is the world’s
    largest vacation exchange network based on the number of
    vacation exchange members and among the world’s largest
    global marketers of vacation rental properties based on the
    number of vacation rental properties marketed. Through this
    business, we provide vacation exchange products and services and
    access to distribution systems and networks to resort developers
    and owners of intervals of vacation ownership interests, and we
    market vacation rental properties primarily on behalf of
    independent owners, vacation ownership developers and other
    hospitality providers. This is primarily a
    fee-for-service
    business that provides stable revenue streams, requires low
    capital investment and produces strong cash flow; and




 



        •       
    

        We have the largest vacation ownership business in the world
    when measured by the number of resorts, units, or owners.
    Through our vacation ownership business, we develop, market and
    sell vacation ownership interests to individual consumers,
    provide consumer financing in connection with the sale of
    vacation ownership interests and provide property management
    services at resorts. While the vacation ownership business has
    historically been capital intensive, a central strategy for
    Wyndham Worldwide is to leverage our scale and marketing
    expertise to pursue low-capital requirement,
    fee-for-service
    business relationships that produce strong cash flow.







    
    1



Table of Contents




 


    Our mission is to be the leader in travel accommodations,
    welcoming our guests to iconic brands and vacation destinations
    through our signature “Count On Me!” service. We also
    have a strong commitment to increasing shareholder value. Our
    strategies to achieve these objectives are to:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Increase market share by delivering excellent service to drive
    customer, consumer and associate satisfaction




 



        •       
    

        Grow cash flow and operating margins through superior execution
    in all of our businesses




 



        •       
    

        Rebalance the Wyndham Worldwide portfolio to emphasize our
    fee-for-service
    business models




 



        •       
    

        Attract, retain and develop human capital across our organization




 



        •       
    

        Support and promote Wyndham Green and Wyndham Diversity
    initiatives





 


    We strive to provide value-added products and services that are
    intended to both enhance the travel experience of the individual
    consumer and drive revenues to our business customers. The depth
    and breadth of our businesses across different segments of the
    hospitality industry provide us with the opportunity to expand
    our relationships with our existing individual consumers and
    business customers in one or more segments of our business by
    offering them additional or alternative products and services
    from our other segments. Historically, we have pursued what we
    believe to be financially-attractive entry points in the major
    global hospitality markets to strengthen our portfolio of
    products and services.


 


    Our lodging, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation
    ownership businesses all have both domestic and international
    operations. During 2009, we derived 76% of our revenues in the
    United States and 24% internationally. For a discussion of our
    segment revenues, profits, assets and geographical operations,
    see the notes to financial statements of this Annual Report. For
    additional information concerning our business, see Item 2.
    Properties, of this Annual Report.


 



    History
    and Development


 


    Wyndham Worldwide’s corporate history can be traced back to
    the 1990 formation of Hospitality Franchise Systems (which
    changed its name to HFS Incorporated, or HFS). The company
    initially began as a hotel franchisor that later expanded its
    hospitality business and became a major real estate and car
    rental franchisor. In December 1997, HFS merged with CUC
    International, Inc., or CUC, to form Cendant Corporation
    (which changed its name to Avis Budget Group, Inc. in September
    2006).


 


    During July 2006, Cendant transferred to Wyndham Worldwide all
    of the assets and liabilities of Cendant’s Hospitality
    Services (including Timeshare Resorts) businesses and, on
    July 31, 2006, Cendant distributed all of the shares of
    Wyndham Worldwide common stock to the holders of Cendant common
    stock issued and outstanding on July 21, 2006, the record
    date for the distribution. The separation was effective on
    July 31, 2006. On August 1, 2006, we commenced
    “regular way” trading on the New York Stock Exchange
    under the symbol “WYN.”


 


    Each of our lodging, vacation exchange and rentals and vacation
    ownership businesses has a long operating history. Our lodging
    business began with the Howard Johnson and Ramada brands which
    opened their first hotels in 1954. RCI, the best known brand in
    our vacation exchange and rentals business, was established
    36 years ago, and our vacation ownership brands, Wyndham
    Vacation Resorts and Wyndham Resort Development Corporation,
    which operates as WorldMark by Wyndham, began vacation ownership
    operations in 1980 and 1989, respectively.


 


    Our well-known family of hospitality brands has been assembled
    over a period of time. The following is a timeline of our
    significant brand acquisitions:


 




    
    
    



     
        1990: 

    
    Howard Johnson and Ramada (US)






    1992: Days Inn



    1993: Super 8



    1995: Knights Inn





    
    
    



     
        1996: 

    
    Travelodge North America
    Resort Condominiums International (RCI)




     
        2001: 

    
    Cuendet
    Holiday Cottages Group
    Fairfield Resorts (now Wyndham Vacation Resorts)




     
        2002: 

    
    Novasol
    Trendwest Resorts (now Worldmark by Wyndham)




     
        2004: 

    
    Ramada International
    Landal GreenParks






    2005: Wyndham Hotels and Resorts



    2006: Baymont




    
    2



Table of Contents





    2008: Microtel Inn & Suites and Hawthorn Suites


 



    WYNDHAM
    HOTEL GROUP


 



    Lodging
    Industry


 


    The global lodging market consists of almost 128,000 hotels with
    combined annual revenues over $300 billion, or
    $2.3 million per hotel. The market is geographically
    concentrated, with the top 20 countries accounting for 80% of
    global rooms.


 


    Companies in the lodging industry operate primarily under one of
    the following business models:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Franchise—Under the franchise model, a company
    typically grants the use of a brand name to owners of hotels
    that the company neither owns nor manages in exchange for
    royalty fees that are typically equal to a percentage of room
    sales. Since the royalty fees are a recurring revenue stream and
    the cost structure is relatively low, the franchise model yields
    high margins and predictable cash flows. Owners of independent
    hotels increasingly have been affiliating their hotels with
    national lodging franchise brands as a means to remain
    competitive. During 2009, approximately 69% of the available
    hotel rooms in the U.S. were affiliated with a brand
    compared to only 46% in Europe and 40% in the Asia Pacific
    region. The 69% of U.S. hotel rooms affiliated with a brand
    during 2009 represents an increase of 80 basis points from
    2008 and 130 basis points from 2007.




 



        •       
    

        Management— Under the management model, a company
    provides professional oversight and comprehensive operations
    support to lodging properties that it owns
    and/or
    lodging properties owned by a third party in exchange for
    management fees, which may include incentive fees based on the
    financial performance of the properties.




 



        •       
    

        Ownership—Under the ownership model, a company owns
    hotel properties and benefits financially from hotel revenues,
    earnings and appreciation in the value of the property.





 


    Performance in the lodging industry is measured by the following
    key metrics:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        average daily rate, or ADR;




 



        •       
    

        average occupancy rate; and




 



        •       
    

        revenue per available room, or RevPAR, which is calculated by
    multiplying ADR by the average occupancy rate.





 


    Demand in the global lodging industry is driven by, among other
    factors, business and leisure travel, both of which are
    significantly affected by the health of the economy. In a
    prosperous economy, demand is typically high, which leads to
    higher occupancy levels and permits increases in room rates.
    This cycle continues and ultimately spurs new hotel development.
    In a poor economy, demand deteriorates, which leads to lower
    occupancy levels and reduced rates. Demand outside the
    U.S. is also affected by demographics, airfare, trade and
    tourism, affluence and the freedom to travel.


 


    The U.S. is the most dominant sector of the global lodging
    market with over 30% of the global room revenues. The
    U.S. lodging industry consists of over 52,000 hotels with
    combined annual revenues of almost $94 billion, or
    $1.8 million per hotel. There are approximately
    4.8 million guest rooms at these hotels, of which
    3.3 million rooms are affiliated with a hotel chain. The
    following table displays trends in the key performance metrics
    for the U.S. lodging industry over the last six years and
    for 2010 (estimate):


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Change in




    Year


 


    Occupancy


 


    ADR


 


    RevPAR


 


    Occupancy


 


    ADR


 


    RevPAR



 






    2004



 


 


    61.4%


 


    $86.29


 


    $52.95


 


 


    3.6 %


 


 


    4.2 %


 


 


    7.9 %





    2005



 


 


    63.1%


 


    91.08


 


    57.51


 


 


    2.9 %


 


 


    5.6 %


 


 


    8.6 %





    2006



 


 


    63.3%


 


    97.99


 


    62.03


 


 


    0.2 %


 


 


    7.6 %


 


 


    7.9 %





    2007



 


 


    63.1%


 


    104.15


 


    65.67


 


 


    (0.4)%


 


 


    6.3 %


 


 


    5.9 %





    2008



 


 


    60.3%


 


    106.92


 


    64.47


 


 


    (4.4)%


 


 


    2.7 %


 


 


    (1.8)%





    2009



 


 


    55.1%


 


    97.51


 


    53.71


 


 


    (8.7)%


 


 


    (8.8)%


 


 


    (16.7)%





    2010E



 


 


    55.4%


 


    95.43


 


    52.90


 


 


    0.6 %


 


 


    (2.1)%


 


 


    (1.5)%











     Sources: Smith
    Travel Research Global (“STR”) (2004 to 2009);
    PricewaterhouseCoopers (2010). 2010 data is as of
    January 25, 2010.
    




    
    3



Table of Contents





    The following table depicts trends in revenues and new rooms
    added on a yearly basis over the last six years and for 2010
    (estimate):


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Revenues
    


 


    New Rooms
    


 


    Changes in




     Year


 


    ($bn)


 


     (000s)


 


    Revenues


 


    New Rooms



 






    2004



 


    $


    113.6


 


 


    81.3


 


 


    8.0 %


 


 


    6.0 %





    2005



 


 


    122.6


 


 


    83.4


 


 


    7.9 %


 


 


    2.6 %





    2006



 


 


    133.4


 


 


    138.9


 


 


    8.8 %


 


 


    66.5 %





    2007



 


 


    139.4


 


 


    146.1


 


 


    4.5 %


 


 


    5.2 %





    2008



 


 


    142.8


 


 


    134.9


 


 


    2.4 %


 


 


    (7.7)%





    2009



 


 


    122.9


 


 


    49.6


 


 


    (13.9)%


 


 


    (63.2)%





    2010E



 


 


    123.1


 


 


    32.3


 


 


    0.1%


 


 


    (34.9)%











     Sources: STR
    (2004 to 2009); PricewaterhouseCoopers (2010). 2010 data is as
    of January 25, 2010.
    


 


    The U.S. lodging industry experienced negative RevPAR
    performance over the last two years, reflecting challenging
    economic conditions. The reduction in demand combined with a
    rise in supply have caused ADR declines during 2009. According
    to certain industry experts, the steepest declines in ADR appear
    to have already occurred; however, expectations are that ADR
    comparisons will remain negative in 2010 as supply growth is
    still expected to outpace demand. Until demand and occupancy
    rates show sustained positive growth in major markets, ADR is
    unlikely to improve. Nonetheless, certain industry experts
    expect the beginning of a recovery in travel to result in a 2.4%
    increase in U.S. hotel demand in 2010, which we believe
    will be predominately experienced in the luxury and upscale
    segments. Beyond 2010, certain industry experts project RevPAR
    in the U.S. to grow at an 8.0% compounded annual growth
    rate (“CAGR”) over the next three years
    (2011-2013).


 


    Performance in the U.S. lodging industry is evaluated based
    upon chain scale segments, which are defined as follows:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Luxury—typically offers first class appointments and
    a full range of on-property amenities and services, including
    restaurants, spas, recreational facilities, business centers,
    concierges, room service and local transportation (shuttle
    service to airport
    and/or local
    attractions).




 



        •       
    

        Upscale—typically offers a full range of on-property
    amenities and services, including restaurants, spas,
    recreational facilities, business centers, concierges, room
    service and local transportation (shuttle service to airport
    and/or local
    attractions).




 



        •       
    

        Midscale—typically offers restaurants
    (“midscale with food and beverage”) or limited
    breakfast service (“midscale without food and
    beverage”), vending, selected business services, partial
    recreational facilities (either a pool or fitness equipment) and
    limited transportation (airport shuttle).




 



        •       
    

        Economy—typically offers a limited breakfast and
    airport shuttle.





 


    The following table sets forth the key metrics for each chain
    scale segment and associated subsegments within the
    U.S. for 2009 as defined by STR:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


    Change in




 


 


 


 


 


 


    Room
    


 


 


 


 


 


 




     Segment


 


    ADR


 


    Demand


 


    Supply


 


    Occupancy


 


    ADR


 


    RevPAR



 






    Luxury



 


    Greater than $210


 


 


    (0.6)%


 


 


    8.9 %


 


 


    (8.7)%


 


 


    (16.3)%


 


 


    (23.6)%





    Upper upscale



 


    $125 to $210


 


 


    (2.6)%


 


 


    4.8 %


 


 


    (7.0)%


 


 


    (11.5)%


 


 


    (17.7)%





    Upscale



 


    $95 to $125


 


 


    0.5 %


 


 


    9.6 %


 


 


    (8.4)%


 


 


    (10.3)%


 


 


    (17.8)%





    Midscale with
    food-and-beverage



 


    $65 to $95


 


 


    (11.6)%


 


 


    (1.2)%


 


 


    (10.5)%


 


 


    (6.1)%


 


 


    (16.0)%





    Midscale without
    food-and-beverage



 


    $65 to $95


 


 


    (3.5)%


 


 


    7.0 %


 


 


    (9.8)%


 


 


    (5.5)%


 


 


    (14.8)%





    Economy



 


    Less than $65


 


 


    (7.7)%


 


 


    1.2 %


 


 


    (8.8)%


 


 


    (6.8)%


 


 


    (15.0)%





    Total



 


 


 


 


    (5.8)%


 


 


    3.2 %


 


 


    (8.7)%


 


 


    (8.8)%


 


 


    (16.7)%











     Source: STR
    


 


    The European lodging industry consists of almost 43,000 hotels
    with combined annual revenues over $101 billion, or
    $2.4 million per hotel. There are approximately
    3.3 million guest rooms at these hotels, of which
    1.5 million rooms are affiliated with a hotel chain. The
    Asia Pacific lodging industry consists of almost 15,000 hotels
    with combined annual revenues over $54 billion, or
    $3.7 million per hotel. There are approximately
    2.1 million guest rooms at these hotels, of which over 830
    thousand are affiliated with a hotel chain. The following table





    
    4



Table of Contents





    displays changes in the key performance metrics for the European
    and Asia Pacific lodging industry during 2009 as compared to
    2008:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    Change in




 


 


 


 


    Room
    


 


 


 


 


 


 




    Region


 


    Demand


 


    Supply


 


    Occupancy


 


    ADR


 


    RevPAR



 






    Europe



 


 


    (6.2)%


 


 


    1.2%


 


 


    (7.2)%


 


 


    (15.5)%


 


 


    (21.7)%





    Asia Pacific



 


 


    (3.5)%


 


 


    3.0%


 


 


    (6.3)%


 


 


    (12.6)%


 


 


    (18.1)%











     Source: STR
    


 



    Wyndham
    Hotel Group Overview


 


    Our lodging business, Wyndham Hotel Group, is the world’s
    largest hotel company (based on number of properties) with the
    industry’s largest loyalty program, Wyndham Rewards (based
    on number of participating hotels). Over 86% of its revenues are
    derived from franchising activities. Wyndham Hotel Group does
    not own any hotels. Therefore, the business model is easily
    adaptable to changing economic environments due to low operating
    cost structures, which in combination with recurring fee streams
    yield high margins and predictable cash flows. Capital
    requirements are relatively low and mostly limited to technology
    expenditures to support core capabilities and any incentives we
    may employ to generate new business, such as key money and
    development advance notes to assist franchisees and hotel owners
    in converting to one of our brands or building a new hotel
    branded under a Wyndham Hotel Group brand.


 



    Hotel
    Brands


 


    Wyndham Hotel Group comprises 11 widely-known brands, over 7,100
    hotels representing almost 597,700 rooms on six continents and
    another 950 hotels representing 108,100 rooms in the development
    pipeline as of December 31, 2009. Wyndham Hotel Group
    franchises in all segments of the industry and provides
    management services for full-service hotels globally. The
    following describes our widely-known lodging brands:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Days
    Inn®

    is a leading global brand in the economy segment with more
    guest rooms than any other economy brand in the world and over
    1,850 properties worldwide. Under its ‘Best Value under the
    Sun’ marketing foundation, Days Inn
    hotels®

    offer value-conscious consumers free high speed internet as well
    as the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program. Most hotels also offer
    free
    Daybreak®

    breakfast, pools, restaurants and meeting rooms.




 



        •       
    

        Super 8
    Worldwide®

    is a leading global brand in the economy segment with almost
    2,140 properties in the U.S., Canada and China. Super 8 has
    recently launched a brand refresh with a new logo and a fresh,
    new interior and exterior design program. Guests can depend on
    every Super 8 to deliver on the brand’s “8 point
    promise,” which includes complimentary
    SuperStart®

    breakfast, free high speed internet access, upgraded bath
    amenities, free in-room coffee, kids under 17 stay free and free
    premium cable or satellite TV as well as the Wyndham Rewards
    loyalty program.




 



        •       
    

        Microtel Inns &
    Suites®

    is an award winning economy chain of more than 310
    properties predominately throughout North America. For an
    unprecedented eight years in a row, the brand has been ranked
    highest in Overall Guest Satisfaction in the Economy/Budget
    Segment by J.D. Power and Associates, a distinction that no
    other company in any industry has achieved. Microtel is also the
    only prototypical, all new-construction brand in the economy
    segment. For the guest, this means a consistent experience
    featuring award-winning contemporary guest room and public area
    designs. For developers, Microtel provides hotel operators low
    cost of construction combined with support and guidance from
    ground break to grand opening as well as low cost of ongoing
    operations. Positioned in the upper-end of the economy segment,
    all properties offer complimentary continental breakfast, free
    wired and wireless internet access, free local and long distance
    calls and the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program.




 



        •       
    

        Howard
    Johnson®

    is an iconic American hotel brand having pioneered hotel
    franchising in 1954. Today Howard Johnson has over 490 hotels in
    North America, Latin America, Asia and other international
    markets. In North America, the brand operates in the midscale
    and economy segments while internationally the brand includes
    mid-scale and upscale hotels. The Howard Johnson brand targets
    families and leisure travelers, providing complimentary
    continental “Rise and
    Dine®”

    breakfast and high speed internet access as well as the Wyndham
    Rewards loyalty program.




 



        •       
    

        Travelodge®

    is hotel chain with 460 properties across North America. The
    brand operates primarily in the economy segment in the
    U.S. and in the midscale with food and beverage segment in
    Canada. Using its “Sleepy Bear” brand ambassador,
    Travelodge targets leisure travelers with a focus on those who
    prefer an








    
    5



Table of Contents







    
    



    
    
    active lifestyle of outdoor activity and offers guests
    complimentary Bear
    Bites®

    continental breakfast and free high speed internet access as
    well as the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program.





 




    
    



        •       
    

        Knights
    Inn®

    is a budget economy hotel chain with over 340 locations
    across North America. Knights Inn hotels provide basic overnight
    accommodations and complimentary breakfast for an affordable
    price as well as the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program. For
    operators, from first time owners to experienced hoteliers, the
    brand provides a lower cost of entry and competitive terms while
    still providing the extensive tools, systems and resources of
    the Wyndham Hotel Group.




 



        •       
    

        Ramada
    Worldwide®

    is a global midscale with food and beverage hotel chain with
    910 properties in 49 countries worldwide. Under its “Do
    Your Thing, Leave the Rest to Us,” marketing foundation and
    supported by the “I AM” service culture, all Ramada
    hotels feature free wireless high-speed internet access, meeting
    rooms, business services, fitness facilities, upgraded bath
    amenities and the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program. Most
    properties have an
    on-site
    restaurant/lounge, while other sites offer a complimentary
    continental breakfast with food available in the Ramada Mart.




 



        •       
    

        Baymont Inn &
    Suites®

    is a midscale without food and beverage hotel chain with 240
    properties across North America. The brand’s commitment to
    providing ‘hometown hospitality’ means guests are
    offered fresh baked cookies, complimentary breakfast and
    high-speed internet access as well as the Wyndham Rewards
    loyalty program. Most hotels also offer swimming pools and
    fitness centers.




 



        •       
    

        Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts®

    and affiliated brands. The Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts family of brands is a collection of brands, including
    our flagship Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts®

    brand, spanning across the upscale and midscale segments with an
    aggregate of nearly 350 properties and featuring complementary
    distribution and product offerings to provide business and
    leisure travelers with more options.





 




    
    
    



     
        •       
    

    
    Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts®—an

    upscale, full service brand of over 90 properties located in key
    business and vacation destinations around the world. Business
    locations feature meeting space flexible for large and small
    meetings, as well as business centers and fitness centers. The
    brand is tiered as follows: Wyndham Grand Collection, comprised
    of 4+Diamond hotels in spectacular resort or urban destinations,
    offer a unique guest experience, sophisticated design and
    distinct dining options; Wyndham Hotels and Resorts offers
    customers amenities such as golf, tennis, beautiful beaches and
    spas; and Wyndham Garden Hotels, generally located in corporate
    or suburban areas, provide flexible space for small to midsize
    meetings and relaxed dining options. Each tier offers our
    signature Wyndham By
    Request®

    guest recognition loyalty program, which provides members
    personalized benefits at every stay in addition to those offered
    by the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program.





 




    
    



        •       
    

        Wingate by
    Wyndham® —

    a prototypical design hotel chain in the upper end of the
    midscale without food and beverage segment with almost 170
    properties in North America. Each hotel offers amenities and
    services that make life on the road more productive, all at a
    single rate. Guests enjoy oversized rooms appointed with all the
    comforts and conveniences of home and office. Each room is
    equipped with a flat screen TV, high-speed internet access,
    in-room microwave and refrigerator. The brand also offers
    complimentary hot breakfast, a
    24-hour
    business center with free printing, copying and faxing and free
    access to a gym facility and the Wyndham Rewards loyalty
    program, including Wyndham By
    Request®.





 



        •       
    

        Hawthorn Suites by
    Wyndham® —

    an extended stay brand that provides an ideal atmosphere for
    multi-night visits at nearly 90 properties predominately in the
    U.S. We believe this brand provides a solution for
    longer-term travelers that typically seek accommodations at our
    Wyndham Hotels and
    Resorts®

    or Wingate by
    Wyndham®

    properties. Each hotel offers an inviting and practical
    environment for travelers with well appointed, spacious one and
    two-bedroom suites and fully-equipped kitchens. Guests enjoy
    free Internet in all rooms and common areas as well as
    complimentary hot breakfast buffets and evening social hours as
    well as the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program, including Wyndham
    By
    Request®.








    
    6



Table of Contents




 


    The following table provides operating statistics for our 11
    brands and for unmanaged, affiliated and managed non-proprietary
    hotels in our system as of and for the year ended
    December 31, 2009. We derived occupancy, ADR and RevPAR
    from information provided by our franchisees.


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


 


 


    Average
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


    Average
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




 


 


    Global
    


 


    Rooms
    


 


 


    # of
    


 


 


    # of
    


 


 


    Occupancy
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




    Brand


 


    Segments
    Served (1)



 


    Per Property


 


 


    Properties


 


 


    Rooms


 


 


    Rate


 


 


    ADR


 


 


    RevPAR


 



 






    Days Inn



 


    Economy


 


 


    81


 


 


 


    1,858


 


 


 


    149,633


 


 


 


    44.9


    %


 


    $


    62.24


 


 


    $


    27.95


 





    Super 8



 


    Economy


 


 


    62


 


 


 


    2,137


 


 


 


    132,876


 


 


 


    48.5


    %


 


    $


    56.67


 


 


    $


    27.48


 





    Microtel



 


    Economy


 


 


    71


 


 


 


    314


 


 


 


    22,376


 


 


 


    49.0


    %


 


    $


    56.72


 


 


    $


    27.79


 





    Howard Johnson



 


    Economy, Midscale & Upscale


 


 


    95


 


 


 


    492


 


 


 


    46,748


 


 


 


    42.2


    %


 


    $


    61.22


 


 


     $


    25.86


 





    Travelodge



 


    Economy & Midscale


 


 


    74


 


 


 


    460


 


 


 


    34,098


 


 


 


    43.4


    %


 


    $


    61.87


 


 


     $


    26.85


 





    Knights Inn



 


    Economy


 


 


    61


 


 


 


    343


 


 


 


    21,061


 


 


 


    37.2


    %


 


    $


    42.46


 


 


    $


    15.79


 





    Ramada



 


    Midscale


 


 


    131


 


 


 


    910


 


 


 


    118,880


 


 


 


    47.0


    %


 


    $


    74.55


 


 


    $


    35.04


 





    Baymont



 


    Midscale


 


 


    85


 


 


 


    240


 


 


 


    20,459


 


 


 


    45.2


    %


 


    $


    62.46


 


 


    $


    28.25


 





    Wyndham Hotels and Resorts



 


    Upscale


 


 


    261


 


 


 


    94


 


 


 


    24,517


 


 


 


    52.6


    %


 


    $


    114.56


 


 


    $


    60.21


 





    Wingate by Wyndham



 


    Midscale


 


 


    92


 


 


 


    166


 


 


 


    15,239


 


 


 


    53.6


    %


 


    $


    83.16


 


 


    $


    44.54


 





    Hawthorne Suites by Wyndham



 


    Midscale


 


 


    93


 


 


 


    89


 


 


 


    8,238


 


 


 


    51.6


    %


 


    $


    83.55


 


 


    $


    43.10


 





    Unmanaged, Affiliated and Managed, Non- Proprietary
    Hotels (2)




 


    Luxury & Upper Upscale


 


 


    323


 


 


 


    11


 


 


 


    3,549


 


 


 


    N/A


 


 


 


    N/A


 


 


 


    N/A


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


 


 


    84


 


 


 


    7,114


 


 


 


    597,674


 


 


 


    46.3


    %


 


    $


    65.52


 


 


          $


    30.34


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 












 






    
    
    



    
    (1)
    
    
    The global segments served column
    reflects the primary chain scale segments served using the STR
    Global definition and method. STR Global is U.S. centric and
    categorizes a hotel chain, or brand, based on ADR in the U.S. We
    utilized the STR chain scale segments to classify our brands
    both in the U.S. and internationally.
    







    
    (2)
    
    
    Represents (i) properties
    affiliated with the Wyndham Hotels and Resorts brand for which
    we receive a fee for reservation and/or other services provided
    and (ii) properties managed under a joint venture. These
    properties are not branded; as such, certain operating
    statistics (such as average occupancy rate, ADR and RevPAR) are
    not relevant.
    




 


    The following table depicts our geographic distribution and key
    operating metrics by region:


 




     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	
     	





 


 


    # of
    


 


 


    # of
    


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 




    Region


 


    Properties


 


 


    Rooms (1)



 


 


    Occupancy


 


 


    ADR


 


 


    RevPAR


 



 






    United States



 


 


    6,006


 


 


 


    465,293


 


 


 


    45.1


    %


 


    $


    62.31


 


 


    $


    28.11


 





    Canada



 


 


    465


 


 


 


    38,174


 


 


 


    51.9


    %


 


    $


    84.13


 


 


    $


    43.69


 





    Europe/Middle
    East/Africa (2)




 


 


    273


 


 


 


    37,000


 


 


 


    52.8


    %


 


    $


    99.52


 


 


    $


    52.52


 





    Asia/Pacific



 


 


    264


 


 


 


    42,219


 


 


 


    49.0


    %


 


    $


    51.08


 


 


    $


    25.01


 





    Latin/South America



 


 


    106


 


 


 


    14,988


 


 


 


    46.8


    %


 


    $


    81.23


 


 


    $


    38.05


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 





    Total



 


 


    7,114


 


 


 


    597,674


 


 


 


    46.3


    %


 


    $


    65.52


 


 


    $


    30.34


 




 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 












 






    
    
    



    
    (1)
    
    
    From time to time, as a result of
    weather or other business interruption and ordinary wear and
    tear, some of the rooms at these hotels may be taken out of
    service for repair.
    







    
    (2)
    
    
    Europe and Middle East include
    affiliated properties/rooms and properties/rooms managed under a
    joint venture. Some of these properties are not branded under a
    Wyndham Hotel Group brand; as such, certain operating statistics
    (such as average occupancy rate, ADR and RevPAR) are not
    relevant and, therefore, have not been reflected in the table.
    




 


    Our franchising business is designed to generate revenues for
    our hotel owners through the delivery of room night bookings to
    the hotel, the promotion of brand awareness among the consumer
    base, global sales efforts, ensuring guest satisfaction and
    providing outstanding customer service to our customers.


 


    The sources of revenues from franchising hotels include initial
    franchise fees, which relate to services provided to assist a
    franchised hotel to open for business under one of our brands,
    and ongoing franchise fees, which are comprised of royalty fees,
    marketing, reservation and other related fees. Royalty fees are
    intended to cover the use of our trademarks and our operating
    expenses, such as expenses incurred for franchise services,
    including quality assurance, hotel management systems and
    administrative support, and to provide us with operating
    profits. Marketing and reservation fees are intended to
    reimburse us for expenses associated with operating a central
    reservations system, advertising and marketing programs, global
    sales efforts and other related services. We promote and sell
    our brands through
    e-commerce
    initiatives, including online paid search and banner advertising
    as well as traditional media, including print and broadcast
    advertising. Because franchise fees generally are based on
    percentages of the franchised hotel’s gross room revenues,
    expanding our portfolio of franchised hotels and growing RevPAR
    at franchised hotels are important to our revenue growth.


 


    Our management business offers hotel owners the benefits of a
    global brand and a full range of management, marketing and
    reservation services. In addition to the standard franchise
    services described below, our hotel management business provides
    hotel owners with professional oversight and comprehensive
    operations support





    
    7



Table of Contents





    services such as hiring, training and supervising the managers
    and employees that operate the hotels as well as annual budget
    preparation, financial analysis and extensive food and beverage
    services. We provide hotel management services primarily to
    owners of upscale properties. Revenues earned from our
    management business include management fees, service fees and
    reimbursement revenues. Management fees are comprised of base
    fees, which typically are calculated based on a specified
    percentage of gross revenues from hotel operations, and
    incentive fees, which typically are calculated based on a
    specified percentage of a hotel’s gross operating profit.
    Service fees include fees derived from accounting, design,
    construction and purchasing services and technical assistance
    provided to managed hotels. In general, all operating and other
    expenses are paid by the hotel owner and we are reimbursed for
    our
    out-of-pocket
    expenses. Reimbursement revenues are intended to cover expenses
    incurred by the hotel management business on behalf of the
    managed hotels, primarily consisting of payroll costs for the
    hotel’s operational employees.


 


    We also earn revenues from the Wyndham Rewards loyalty program
    when a member stays at a participating hotel. These revenues are
    derived from a fee we charge based upon a percentage of room
    revenues generated from such stay. These loyalty fees are
    intended to reimburse us for expenses associated with
    administering and marketing the program.


 



    Central
    Reservations and Internet Bookings


 


    In 2009, hotels within our system (either franchised under one
    of our brands or managed) sold 8.0% or approximately
    75.9 million, of the almost one billion hotel room nights
    sold in the U.S. and another 22.0 million hotel room
    nights across other parts of the world. Over 95% of our system
    is located in the economy and midscale segments of the global
    industry. Economy and midscale hotels are typically located on
    highway roadsides for convenience to the business and leisure
    travelers. Therefore, the majority of hotel room nights sold at
    these hotels is to guests who seek accommodations on a walk-in
    basis, which we believe is attributable to the brand reputation
    and recognition of the brand name.


 


    For guests who book their hotel stay in advance, we booked on
    behalf of hotels within our system a total of 32.7 million
    room nights in 2009, which represents 33% of total bookings at
    these hotels and includes 17.6 million room nights booked
    through our Wyndham Rewards loyalty program.


 


    Our most significant and fastest growing reservation channel is
    the Internet, which represents our proprietary websites for each
    of our 11 brands and WyndhamRewards.com, as well as online
    travel agents (“OTAs”) and other third-party Internet
    booking sources such as Travelocity.com and Expedia.com. In
    2009, we booked on behalf of hotels within our system,
    15.5 million room nights through the Internet, which
    represents 15.7% of the total bookings at these hotels. Since
    2004, bookings made directly by customers on our brand websites
    have been increasing at a five year CAGR of approximately 13.7%,
    and increased to over 8.0 million room nights in 2009.
    Therefore, a key strategy for reservation delivery is the
    continual investment in and optimization of our websites as well
    the deployment of advertising spend to drive online traffic to
    our proprietary websites, including through marketing agreements
    we have with travel related search websites and affiliate
    networks. Since 2004, bookings made by our brands’
    customers through OTAs and other third-party Internet booking
    sources increased at a five year CAGR of approximately 15.0% to
    over almost 7.5 million room nights in 2009. To ensure we
    receive these bookings, we provide direct connections between
    our central reservations system and some third-party Internet
    booking sources. Direct connections with our third party
    agencies allow us to deliver more accurate and consistent rates
    and inventory, send bookings directly to our central systems
    without interference or delay and reduce our franchise
    distribution costs.


 


    Our call centers contributed almost 3.0 million room nights
    in 2009, which represents 3.0% of the total bookings at the
    hotels within our system. We maintain call centers in Saint
    John, Canada; Aberdeen, South Dakota; and Manila, Philippines
    that handle bookings generated through our toll-free brand
    numbers.


 


    Our global distribution partners, such as Sabre and Amadeus, and
    global sales team also contributed a total of 2.3 million
    room nights in 2009, which represents 2.4% of the total bookings
    at the hotels within our system. Our global distribution
    partners process reservations made by offline travel agents and
    by any OTAs that do not have the ability to directly connect
    with our reservation system. Our global sales team generates
    sales from global and meeting planners, tour operators, travel
    agents, government and military clients, and corporate and small
    business accounts, to supplement the on-property sales efforts.


 



    Loyalty
    Program


 


    The Wyndham Rewards program, which was introduced in 2003, has
    grown steadily to become one of the lodging industry’s
    largest loyalty programs. The diversity of our 11 brands
    uniquely enables us to meet our members’ leisure as well as
    business travel needs across the greatest number of locations
    and a wide range of price points. The Wyndham Rewards program is
    offered in the U.S., Canada, U.K., Ireland, Germany, China and
    most





    
    8



Table of Contents





    recently has been expanded to Mexico and several countries in
    Europe (including France, Italy and Switzerland). As of
    December 31, 2009, there were 20.1 million members
    enrolled in the program, of whom 7.1 million were active
    (i.e., members that have earned or redeemed within the last
    18 months). The Wyndham Rewards program has one of the
    highest percentages of active members among competitive loyalty
    programs according to SCORES 2009 Frequent Guest Report. These
    members stay at our brands more often and drive incremental room
    nights, higher ADR and a longer length of stay than non-member
    guests.


 


    Wyndham Rewards offers its members numerous ways to earn and
    redeem points. Members accumulate points by staying in one of
    almost 7,000 branded hotels participating in the program, and
    have the option to earn points with more than 50 business
    partners, including American Airlines, Continental Airlines,
    Delta Airlines, US Airways, United Airlines, Southwest Airlines,
    RCI, Endless Vacation Rentals, Avis Budget Group, Amtrak,
    Aeromexico, Air China and BMI. When staying at one of our
    franchised or managed hotels, Wyndham Rewards members may elect
    to earn airline miles or rail points instead of Wyndham Rewards
    points. Wyndham Rewards members have over 400 options to redeem
    their points. Members may redeem their points for hotel stays,
    airline tickets, resort vacations, car rentals, electronics,
    sporting goods, movie and theme park tickets, and gift
    certificates.


 


    Additionally, the Wyndham ByRequest program, a unique program
    featuring a communications package and personalized guest
    amenities and services is offered exclusively at our Wyndham
    Hotels and Resorts brand and, in early 2010, will be offered at
    our Wingate by Wyndham and Hawthorn Suites by Wyndham hotels.


 



    Marketing


 


    Our brand marketing teams develop and implement global marketing
    strategies for each of our 11 hotel brands, including generating
    consumer awareness of and preference for each brand as well as
    direct response activities designed to drive bookings through
    our central reservation systems. We deploy a variety of
    marketing strategies and tactics depending on the needs of the
    specific brand and local market, including brand positioning,
    creative development, offline and online media planning and
    buying, promotions, sponsorships and direct marketing. While
    brand positioning and strategy is driven out of our
    U.S. headquarters, we have seasoned marketing professionals
    positioned around the globe to modify and implement these
    strategies on a local market level. In the U.S., all brands have
    a national marketing program, and some brands also have regional
    marketing cooperatives which foster collaboration among
    franchisees and leverage the national marketing plan to drive
    business to our properties at a local level.


 


    Our marketing efforts communicate the unique value proposition
    of each of our individual brands, and are designed to build
    consumer awareness and drive business to our hotels, either
    directly or through our own reservation channels. Our Best
    Available Rate guarantee gives consumers confidence to book
    directly with us by providing the same rates regardless of
    whether they book through our call centers, websites or any
    other channel.


 


    In addition, we leverage the strength of our Wyndham Rewards
    program to develop meaningful marketing promotions and campaigns
    to drive new and repeat business. Our Wyndham Rewards marketing
    efforts drive tens of millions of consumer impressions through
    the program’s channels and through the program’s
    partners’ channels.


 



    Global
    Sales


 


    Our global sales organization, strategically located throughout
    the world, leverages the significant size of our portfolio and
    the 11 hotel brands to gain a larger share of business for each
    of our hotels through relationship-based selling to a diverse
    range of customers. Because our hotel portfolio meets the needs
    of all types of travelers, we can find more complete solutions
    for a client/company who may have travel needs ranging from
    economy to upscale brands. We are able to accommodate travelers
    almost anywhere business or leisure travelers go with our
    selection of over 7,100 hotels throughout the world. The sales
    team is deployed globally in key markets such as London, Mexico,
    Canada, Korea, China, Singapore and throughout the U.S. in
    order to leverage multidimensional customer needs for our
    hotels. The global sales team also works with each hotel to
    identify the hotel’s individual needs and then works to
    find the right customers to stay with those brands and those
    hotels.


 



    Revenue
    Management


 


    We offer revenue management services to help maximize revenues
    of our hotel owners and franchisees by improving rate and
    inventory management capabilities and also coordinating all
    recommended revenue programs delivered to our hotels in tandem
    with
    e-commerce
    and brand marketing strategies. Properties enrolled in our
    revenue management services have experienced higher production
    from call centers, websites and other channels, as well as
    stronger RevPAR index performance. As a result, the almost 2,500
    properties currently enrolled in the revenue management program
    have experienced a 150 basis point improvement in RevPAR
    index.




    
    9



Table of Contents






    Property
    Services


 


    We continue to support our franchisees with a team of dedicated
    support and service providers both field based and housed at our
    corporate office. This team of industry veterans collaborates
    with hotel owners on all aspects of their operations and creates
    detailed and individualized strategies for success. By providing
    key services, such as system integration, operations support,
    training, strategic sourcing, and development planning and
    construction, we are able to make a meaningful contribution to
    the operations of the hotel resulting in more profits for our
    hotel owners.


 


    Our field services team, strategically dispersed worldwide,
    integrates new properties into our system and helps existing
    properties improve RevPAR performance and guest satisfaction.
    Our training teams provide robust educational opportunities to
    our hotel owners through instructor led, web-based and
    electronic learning vehicles for a number of relevant topics.
    Our strategic sourcing department helps franchisees control
    costs by leveraging the buying power of the entire Wyndham
    Worldwide organization to produce discounted prices on numerous
    items necessary for the successful operations of a hotel, such
    as linens and coffee. Our development planning and construction
    team provides architectural and interior design guidance to
    hotel owners to ensure compliance with brand standards,
    including construction site visits and the creation of interior
    design schemes.


 


    We also provide hotel owners with management systems that
    synchronizes each hotel’s inventory with our central
    reservations platform. These systems help hotel owners manage
    their rooms inventory (room nights), rates (ADR) and
    reservations, which leads to greater profits at the property
    level and better enables us to deliver reservations at the right
    price to our hotel owners.


 


    Additionally, MyPortal, which is a property-focused intranet
    website, is the key communication vehicle and a single access
    point to all the information and tools available to help our
    hotel owners manage their
    day-to-day
    activities.


 



    New
    Development


 


    Our development team consists of over 100 professionals
    dispersed throughout the world, including in the U.S., China, UK
    and Mexico. Our development efforts typically target existing
    franchisees as well as hotel developers, owners of independent
    hotels and owners of hotels leaving competitor brands.
    Approximately 22% of the new rooms added in 2009 were with
    franchisees or managed hotel owners already doing business with
    us.


 


    Our hotel management business gives us access to development
    opportunities beyond pure play franchising deals. When a hotel
    owner is seeking both a brand and a manager for his full-service
    hotel, we are able to couple these services in one offering,
    which we believe gives us a competitive advantage.


 


    During 2009, our development team generated 897 applications for
    new franchise
    and/or
    management agreements, of which 721, or 80%, resulted in new
    franchise
    and/or
    management agreements. The difference is attributable to various
    factors such as financing and agreement on contractual terms.
    Once executed, about 70% of hotels open within the following six
    months, while 10% open between six and 12 months and
    another 6% open generally within 24 months. The remaining
    14% may never open due to various factors such as financing.


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had 108,069 rooms pending
    opening in our development pipeline, of which 43% were
    international and 51% were new construction.


 


    In North America, we generally employ a direct franchise model
    whereby we contract with and provide various services and
    reservations assistance directly to independent owner-operators
    of hotels. Under our direct franchise model, we principally
    market our lodging brands to hotel developers, owners of
    independent hotels and hotel owners who have the right to
    terminate their franchise affiliations with other lodging
    brands. We also market franchises to existing franchisees
    because many own, or may own in the future, other hotels that
    can be converted to one of our brands. Our standard franchise
    agreement grants a franchisee the right to non-exclusive use of
    the applicable franchise system in the operation of a single
    hotel at a specified location, typically for a period of 15 to
    20 years, and gives the franchisor and franchisee certain
    rights to terminate the franchise agreement before its
    conclusion under certain circumstances, such as upon the lapsing
    of a certain number of years after commencement of the
    agreement. Early termination options in franchise agreements
    give us flexibility to eliminate or re-brand franchised hotels
    if such properties become weak performers, even if there is no
    contractual failure by the franchisee. We also have the right to
    terminate a franchise agreement for failure by a franchisee to
    bring its properties into compliance with contractual or quality
    standards within specified periods of time, pay required
    franchise fees or comply with other requirements of the
    franchise agreement.


 


    In other parts of the world, we employ a direct franchise model
    or, where we are not yet ready to support the required
    infrastructure for that region, we may employ a master franchise
    model. Franchise agreements in regions outside of North America
    typically carry a lower fee structure based upon the breadth of
    services we provide for that particular region. Under our master
    franchise model, we principally market our lodging brands to
    third parties





    
    10



Table of Contents





    that assume the principal role of franchisor, which entails
    selling individual franchise agreements and providing quality
    assurance, marketing and reservations support to franchisees.
    Since we provide only limited services to master franchisors,
    the fees we receive in connection with master franchise
    agreements are typically lower than the fees we receive under a
    direct franchising model. Master franchise agreements, which are
    individually negotiated and vary among our different brands,
    typically contain provisions that permit us to terminate the
    agreement if the other party to the agreement fails to meet
    specified development schedules. The terms of our master
    franchise agreements generally are competitive with industry
    averages within industry chain scale segments.


 



    Strategies


 


    Wyndham Hotel Group is strategically focused on the following
    two objectives that we believe are essential to our business:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        increasing our system size by adding new rooms and retaining the
    properties that meet our performance criteria; and




 



        •       
    

        strengthening our customer value proposition by driving revenues
    to our franchised and managed hotels.





 


    North America represents 84% of our global system. In North
    America, we expect to maintain our leading position in the
    economy segment and further expand our position in the midscale
    and upscale segments by:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        further clarify and strengthen each brands market position by
    ensuring that each hotel in our system is branded properly based
    upon its specific product and market considerations;




 



        •       
    

        continuing to grow our Super 8, Days Inn, Howard Johnson,
    Travelodge and Knights Inn systems by adding new properties
    where the brand is currently underrepresented;




 



        •       
    

        expanding the presence of the Microtel brand in the Midwest
    regions;




 



        •       
    

        expanding the presence of our Wyndham affiliated
    brands — Wingate by Wyndham and Hawthorn Suites by
    Wyndham — in targeted markets across the Northeast and
    the West Coast;




 



        •       
    

        growing the Ramada brand by converting 200+ room full-service
    hotels in large, secondary markets, such as Newark, New Jersey
    and Tampa, Florida;




 



        •       
    

        expanding the presence of Baymont in the Midwest
    regions; and




 



        •       
    

        targeting key markets, such as San Francisco, Los Angeles,
    Boston and Washington, D.C., where the Wyndham brand is
    underrepresented.





 


    Outside North America, a relatively low percentage of hotels are
    branded; however, there has been an increasing trend towards
    affiliation with a global brand. Since 2005, the branded market
    outside North America has grown at a 2.4% CAGR, which when
    compared to the overall market CAGR of 1.8% implies an increased
    preference for branded hotels. Therefore, we expect the largest
    growth to come from international regions where we will target
    key cities globally in the UK, China and Mexico for the Wyndham,
    Ramada, Days Inn and Super 8 brands. We expect to predominately
    deploy direct franchising models and management agreements in
    these markets but may seek a master franchising relationship in
    international markets where we are not yet ready to support the
    required infrastructure for that region. We also expect to use
    management agreements for the Wyndham brand and for full-service
    hotels under any of our other brands on a select basis. Our
    strategy generally focuses on pursuing new room growth
    organically although we may consider the select acquisition of
    brands that facilitate our strategic objectives.


 


    We recognize that the value we bring to hotel owners has a
    direct impact on our ability to retain their property within our
    system. This is why helping to make our franchisees and managed
    hotels profitable, whether through incremental revenue, cost
    efficiencies, operational excellence or better service, is a key
    focus of Wyndham Hotel Group. We also believe that our ability
    to attract new franchisees and hotel owners is greatly
    influenced by demonstrating our value to existing franchisees
    and hotel owners. For these reasons, we’ve just recently
    launched a reprioritization of strategic initiatives with the
    goal of strengthening our value proposition through delivering a
    reservation experience that maximizes the value for both our
    franchisees/hotel owners as well as the guests staying at our
    properties.


 


    Our efforts toward this goal will focus on the following
    initiatives:


 




    
    



        •       
    
    
    increasing occupancy levels and allowing for better pricing
    opportunities by ensuring all our rate plans are consistently
    available across all channels and by equipping franchisees with
    more competitive rate information to enable them to make better
    rate-setting decisions; and







    
    11



Table of Contents




 




    
    



        •       
    
    
    driving bookings through online channels by improving the
    consumer shopping experience on our brand websites, by enhancing
    connectivity to online travel agents and by increasing product
    exposure on OTA websites.





 


    Additionally, to drive incremental revenue to our franchisees
    and hotel owners, we intend to further develop our ability to
    cross sell all our properties; strengthen our business-building
    online marketing campaigns; and enhance our revenue management
    and Wyndham Rewards offerings. The other key components of our
    value proposition (cost efficiencies, operational excellence and
    outstanding service) are accomplished through our
    day-to-day
    operations and Count on Me! service culture. The Count on Me!
    service culture is the foundation of our business model that
    gives our employees the tools and resources necessary to deliver
    exceptional service and identifies the behaviors that ensure we
    deliver a great experience. All employees of Wyndham Hotel Group
    are trained in Count on Me! and all franchisees are trained in a
    brand-specific service culture that is built around the tenets
    of Count on Me! To drive cost efficiencies and operational
    excellence at the property level, we have numerous service
    offerings such as advantageous procurement pricing and hotel
    management training that is tailored to a specific
    property’s needs. We are currently working on exciting new
    initiatives that will provide franchisees with lower cost
    solutions to run their properties and ensure they have the right
    systems in place to track their performance.


 



    Seasonality


 


    Franchise and management fees are generally higher in the second
    and third quarters than in the first or fourth quarters of any
    calendar year as a result of increased leisure travel and the
    related ability to charge higher ADRs during the spring and
    summer months.


 



    Competition


 


    Competition is robust among the lodging brand franchisors to
    grow their franchise systems and retain their existing
    franchisees. We believe existing and potential franchisees make
    decisions based principally upon the perceived value and quality
    of the brand and the services offered to franchisees. We believe
    that the perceived value of a brand name is, to some extent, a
    function of the success of the existing hotels franchised under
    the brands. We believe that existing and prospective franchisees
    value a franchise based upon their views of the relationship
    between the costs, including costs of conversion and
    affiliation, to the benefits, including potential for increased
    revenues and profitability, and upon the reputation of the
    franchisor.


 


    The ability of an individual franchisee to compete may be
    affected by the location and quality of its property, the number
    of competing properties in the vicinity, community reputation
    and other factors. A franchisee’s success may also be
    affected by general, regional and local economic conditions. The
    potential negative effect of these conditions on our results of
    operations is substantially reduced by virtue of the diverse
    geographical locations of our franchised hotels and by the scale
    of our franchisee base. Our franchise system is dispersed among
    almost 5,700 franchisees, which reduces our exposure to any one
    franchisee. No one franchisee accounts for more than 2% of our
    franchised hotels and 3% of our total revenues.


 



    WYNDHAM
    EXCHANGE AND RENTALS


 



    Vacation
    Exchange and Rentals Industry


 


    The estimated $61 billion global vacation exchange and
    rentals industry is largely a
    fee-for-service
    business and has been a growing segment of the hospitality
    industry. The industry offers products and services to both
    leisure travelers and vacation property owners. For leisure
    travelers, the industry offers access to a range of
    fully-furnished vacation properties, which include
    privately-owned vacation homes, villas, cottages, apartments and
    condominiums, vacation ownership resorts, inventory at hotels
    and resorts, boats and yachts. The industry offers leisure
    travelers flexibility (subject to availability) in time of
    travel and choice of lodging options in regions where travelers
    may not typically have access to such choices. For vacation
    property owners, affiliations with vacation exchange companies
    allow owners of vacation intervals to exchange their interests
    in vacation properties for vacation time at other properties or
    for other various products and services. Additionally,
    affiliation with vacation rental companies provides property
    owners the ability to have their properties marketed and rented
    and, in some instances, to transfer the responsibility of
    managing such properties.


 


    The vacation exchange industry provides owners of intervals
    flexibility through vacation exchanges. To participate in a
    vacation exchange, an owner generally contributes their interval
    to an exchange company’s network and then indicates the
    particular resort or geographic area where the owner would like
    to travel, the size of the unit desired and the period during
    which the owner would like to vacation. The exchange company
    then rates the owner’s contributed intervals based upon a
    number of factors, including the location and size of the unit
    or units, the quality of the resort or resorts and the time
    period or periods during which the intervals entitle the owner
    to vacation. The owner may then request an exchange for a
    vacation interval of equal or lesser rating compared to the
    interval that





    
    12



Table of Contents





    the owner contributed. Exchange companies generally derive
    revenues from owners of intervals by charging exchange fees for
    facilitating exchanges and through annual membership dues. In
    2008, 77% of owners of intervals were members of vacation
    exchange companies, and 55% of such owners exchanged their
    intervals through such exchange companies.


 


    The long-term trend in the vacation exchange industry has been
    growth in the number of members of vacation exchange companies.
    Current economic conditions have resulted in slower growth, but
    we believe that an economic recovery will support a return to
    stronger growth. In 2008, there were approximately
    6.3 million members industry-wide who completed
    approximately 3.5 million exchanges. Within the broader
    long-term growth trend of the vacation exchange industry, there
    is also a trend where timeshare developers are enrolling members
    in private label clubs, where members have the option to
    exchange within the club or through external exchange channels.
    The club trend has a positive impact on the average number of
    members, but an opposite effect on the number of exchange
    transactions per average member and revenue per member.


 


    The vacation rental industry offers vacation property owners the
    opportunity to rent their properties to leisure travelers for
    periods of time when the properties are unoccupied. The vacation
    rental industry is not as organized as the lodging industry in
    that the vacation rental industry does not have global
    reservation systems or brands. The industry is divided broadly
    into two segments. The first is the managed rental segment,
    where the homeowner provides their property to an agent to rent,
    in a majority of cases, on an exclusive basis and the agent
    receives a commission for marketing the property, managing
    bookings, and providing quality assurance to the renter. The
    other segment of the industry is the listing business, where
    there is no exclusive relationship and the property owner pays a
    fixed fee for an online listing or a directory listing with
    minimal additional services, typically with no direct booking
    ability or quality assurance services. Typically, managed
    vacation rental companies collect rent in advance and, after
    deducting the applicable commissions, remit the net amounts due
    to the property owners
    and/or
    property managers. In addition to commissions, managed vacation
    rental companies earn revenues from rental customers through
    fees that are incidental to the rental of the properties, such
    as fees for travel services, local transportation,
    on-site
    services and insurance or similar types of products.


 


    The global supply of vacation rental inventory is highly
    fragmented with much of it being made available by individual
    property owners. We believe that as of December 31, 2009,
    there were approximately 1.3 million and 1.7 million
    vacation properties available for rental in the United States
    and Europe, respectively. In the United States, the vacation
    properties available for rental are primarily condominiums or
    stand-alone houses. In Europe, the vacation properties available
    for rental include individual homes and apartments, campsites
    and vacation park bungalows. Individual owners of vacation
    properties in the United States and Europe may own their
    properties as investments and may sometimes use such properties
    for their own use for portions of the year. We believe that the
    overall supply of vacation rental properties has grown primarily
    because of the increasing desire by existing owners of second
    homes to gain an earnings stream evidenced by homes not
    previously offered for rent appearing on the market.


 


    We believe that the overall demand for vacation rentals has been
    growing for the following reasons: (i) the consumer value
    of renting a unit for an entire family; (ii) the increased
    use of the Internet as a tool for facilitating vacation rental
    transactions; and (iii) increased consumer awareness of
    vacation rental options. The global demand per year for vacation
    rentals is approximately 54 million vacation weeks,
    34 million of which are rented by leisure travelers from
    Europe. Demand for vacation rental properties is often regional
    since many leisure travelers rent properties within driving
    distance of their home. Some leisure travelers, however, travel
    relatively long distances from their homes to vacation
    properties in domestic or international destinations. Current
    economic conditions have resulted in slower growth in the near
    term, but we believe that the long-term trends will support a
    return to stronger growth.


 


    The destinations where leisure travelers from Europe, the United
    States, South Africa and Australia generally rent properties
    vary by country of origin of the leisure travelers. Leisure
    travelers from Europe generally rent properties in European
    destinations, including the United Kingdom, Denmark, Ireland,
    Spain, France, the Netherlands, Germany, Italy and Portugal.
    Demand from European leisure travelers has recently been
    shifting beyond traditional Western Europe, based on political
    stability across Europe, increased accessibility of Eastern
    Europe and the expansion of the European Union. Demand from
    U.S. leisure travelers is focused on rentals in seaside
    destinations, such as Hawaii, Florida and the Carolinas, in ski
    destinations such as the Rocky Mountains, and in urban centers
    such as Las Vegas, Nevada; San Francisco, California; and
    New York City, New York. Demand is also growing for destinations
    in Mexico and the Caribbean by leisure travelers from the United
    States.


 



    Wyndham
    Exchange and Rentals Overview


 


    Wyndham Exchange and Rentals is largely a
    fee-for-service
    business that provides vacation exchange products and services
    to developers, managers and owners of intervals of vacation
    ownership interests, and markets vacation rental properties. Our
    vacation exchange and rentals business primarily derives its
    revenues from fees which generate





    
    13



Table of Contents





    stable and predictable cash flows. Our vacation exchange
    business, RCI, derives a majority of its revenues from annual
    membership dues and exchange fees for facilitating transactions.
    Our vacation exchange business also derives revenues from
    ancillary services, including additional services provided to
    transacting members, programs with affiliated resorts, club
    servicing, travel agency services and loyalty programs. Our
    vacation rentals business primarily derives its revenues from
    fees, which generally average between 20% and 45% of the gross
    booking fees for non-proprietary inventory, except for where we
    receive 100% of the revenues for properties that we own or
    operate under long-term capital leases. Our vacation rentals
    business also derives revenues from ancillary services delivered
    on-site for
    owned and managed properties. The revenues generated in our
    vacation exchange and rentals business are substantially derived
    from the direct customer relationships we have with our
    3.8 million vacation exchange members, our nearly 46,000
    independent property owners and the affiliated developers of
    over 4,000 resorts. No one external customer, customer group or
    developer accounts for more than 2% of our vacation exchange and
    rentals revenues.


 


    We are the world’s largest vacation exchange network as
    measured by the number of vacation exchange members and among
    the world’s largest global marketers of vacation rental
    properties. Our vacation exchange and rentals business has
    access for specified periods, in a majority of cases on an
    exclusive basis, to over 65,000 vacation properties, which are
    comprised of over 4,000 vacation ownership resorts around the
    world through our vacation exchange business and approximately
    61,000 vacation rental properties that are located principally
    in Europe, which we believe makes us the world’s largest
    marketer of European vacation rental properties as measured by
    the number of managed properties marketed. Each year, our
    vacation exchange and rentals business provides more than
    4.5 million leisure-bound families with vacation exchange
    and rentals products and services. The properties available to
    leisure travelers through our vacation exchange and rentals
    business include vacation ownership condominiums, houses,
    villas, cottages, bungalows, campgrounds, hotel rooms and
    suites, city apartments, fractional private residences, luxury
    destination clubs and yachts. We offer leisure travelers
    flexibility (subject to availability) as to time of travel and a
    choice of lodging options in regions to which such travelers may
    not typically have such ease of access, and we offer property
    owners marketing services, quality control services and property
    management services ranging from key-holding to full property
    maintenance for such properties. Our vacation exchange and
    rentals business has over 80 worldwide offices. We market our
    products and services using eight primary consumer brands and
    other related brands.


 



    Vacation
    Exchange


 


    Through our vacation exchange business, RCI, we have
    relationships with over 4,000 vacation ownership resorts in
    approximately 100 countries. We have 3.8 million vacation
    exchange members and generally retain more than 85% of members
    each year, with the overall membership base stable or growing
    over time, and generate fees from members for both annual
    membership subscriptions and transaction based services. We
    acquire substantially all members of our exchange programs
    indirectly. In substantially all cases, an affiliated resort
    developer buys the initial term of an RCI membership on behalf
    of the consumer when the consumer purchases a vacation ownership
    interval. Generally, this initial term is either 1 or
    2 years and entitles the vacation ownership interval
    purchaser to receive periodicals published by RCI and to use the
    applicable exchange program for an additional fee. The vacation
    ownership interval purchaser generally pays for membership
    renewals and any applicable fees for exchange transactions.


 


    RCI operates three worldwide exchange programs that have a
    member base of vacation owners who are generally well-traveled
    and who want flexibility and variety in their travel plans each
    year. Our vacation exchange business’ three exchange
    programs, which serve owners of intervals at affiliated resorts,
    are
    RCI®

    Weeks, RCI
    Points®

    and The Registry
    Collection®

    programs. Participants in these vacation exchange programs pay
    annual membership dues. For additional fees, participants are
    entitled to exchange intervals for intervals at other properties
    affiliated with our vacation exchange business. In addition,
    certain participants may exchange intervals for other
    leisure-related products and services. We refer to participants
    in these three exchange programs as “members.” In
    addition, the Endless
    Vacation®

    magazine is the official travel publication of our RCI Weeks and
    RCI Points exchange programs for U.S. and Canadian members,
    and certain members can obtain the benefits of participation in
    our RCI Weeks and RCI Points exchange programs only through a
    subscription to Endless Vacation magazine.


 


    The RCI Weeks exchange program is the world’s largest
    vacation ownership exchange network and generally provides
    members with the ability to trade week-long intervals in units
    at their resorts for week-long intervals of equal or lesser
    rated units at the same resorts or at comparable resorts.


 


    The RCI Points exchange program, launched in 2000, is a global
    points-based exchange network, which allocates points to
    intervals that members cede to the exchange program. Under the
    RCI Points exchange program, members may redeem their points for
    the use of vacation properties in the exchange program or for
    other products and services which may change from time to time,
    such as airfare, car rentals, cruises, hotels and other
    accommodations. When points are redeemed for these other
    products and services, our vacation exchange business





    
    14



Table of Contents





    gains the right to these points so it can rent vacation
    properties backed by these points in order to recoup the expense
    of providing other products and services.


 


    We believe that The Registry Collection exchange program is the
    industry’s first and largest global exchange network of
    luxury vacation accommodations. The luxury vacation
    accommodations in The Registry Collection’s network include
    higher-end vacation ownership resorts, fractional ownership
    resorts, condo-hotels and yachts. The Registry Collection allows
    members to exchange their intervals for the use of other
    vacation properties within the network for a fee and also offers
    access to other products and services, such as cruises, yachts,
    adventure travel, hotels and other accommodations. The members
    of The Registry Collection exchange program often own greater
    than two-week intervals at affiliated resorts.


 


    Our vacation exchange business operates worldwide primarily in
    the following regions: North America, Europe, Latin America, the
    Caribbean, Southern Africa, Asia, Pacific, and the Middle East.
    We tailor our strategies and operating plans for each of the
    geographical environments where RCI has or seeks to develop a
    substantial member base.


 



    Vacation
    Rentals


 


    The rental properties we market are principally privately-owned
    villas, cottages, bungalows and apartments that generally belong
    to independent property owners. In addition to these properties,
    we market inventory from our vacation exchange business and from
    other sources. We generate fee income from marketing and renting
    these properties to consumers. We currently make nearly
    1.4 million vacation rental bookings a year. We market
    rental properties under proprietary brand names, such as Landal
    Green Parks, Novasol, Dansommer, Villas4You, cottages4you,
    English Country Cottages, Canvas Holidays, Cuendet, Endless
    Vacation Rentals by Wyndham Worldwide, and through select
    private-label arrangements. The following is a description of
    some of our major vacation rental brands:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        Novasol®

    is one of continental Europe’s largest rental companies,
    featuring properties in more than 20 European countries
    including holiday homes in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, France,
    Italy and Croatia, with over 28,000 exclusive cottages available
    for rent.




 



        •       
    

        Holiday Cottages Group operates a number of
    well-recognized and established brands within the vacation
    rental market, including English Country Cottages, cottages4you
    and Welcome Cottages, and offers unparalleled access to
    approximately 17,000 properties across the U.K. and Europe.




 



        •       
    

        Cuendet®

    is a specialist in villa rentals in Italy since 1974 and offers
    a collection of Tuscany villa rentals, castles, vacation villas
    with swimming pools, farm houses, cottages and apartments
    scattered throughout the most beautiful regions of Italy, with
    2,000 villas available for rent.




 



        •       
    

        Landal
    GreenParks®

    is one of Holland’s leading holiday park companies, with
    almost 70 holiday parks offering approximately 11,000 holiday
    park bungalows, villas and apartments in the Netherlands,
    Germany, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland and the Czech Republic.
    Every year more than 2 million guests visit Landal’s
    parks, many of which offer dining, shopping and wellness
    facilities.




 



        •       
    

        Canvas Holidays is a specialist tour operator offering
    luxury camping holidays in Europe at almost 100 of the finest
    European campsites with almost 3,000 accommodation units. It has
    a wide choice of luxury accommodations — spacious
    lodges, comfortable mobile homes and the unique Maxi Tent, plus
    an exciting range of children’s and family clubs.





 


    Most of the rental activity under our brands takes place in
    Europe, the United States and Mexico, although we have the
    ability to source and rent inventory in approximately 100
    countries. Our vacation rentals business also has the
    opportunity to provide inventory to our 3.8 million
    vacation exchange members.


 


    Our vacation rentals business currently has relationships with
    nearly 46,000 independent property owners in 26 countries,
    including the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Germany, Denmark,
    Sweden, France, Ireland, Belgium, Italy, Spain, Portugal,
    Norway, Greece, Austria, Croatia, and certain countries in
    Eastern Europe, the United States, the Pacific Rim and Latin
    America. Property owners typically enter into one year or
    multi-year contracts with our vacation rentals subsidiaries to
    market the rental of their properties within our rental
    portfolio. Our vacation rentals business also has an ownership
    interest in, or capital leases under, the Landal GreenParks
    brand for approximately 10% of the properties in our rental
    portfolio.


 



    Customer
    Development


 


    In our vacation exchange business, we affiliate with vacation
    ownership developers directly as a result of the efforts of our
    in-house sales teams. Affiliated developers sign long-term
    agreements each with a duration of up to 10 years. Our
    members are acquired primarily through our affiliated developers
    as part of the vacation ownership





    
    15



Table of Contents





    purchase process. In our vacation rentals business, we primarily
    enter into exclusive annual rental agreements with property
    owners. We market rental properties online and offline to large
    databases of customers, which generate repeat bookings.
    Additional customers are sourced through bookable websites and
    offline advertising and promotions, and through the use of
    third-party travel agencies, tour operators, and online
    distribution channels to drive additional occupancy. We have
    also developed specific branded websites, such as
    cottages4you.co.uk and EVrentals.com, to promote, sell and
    inform new customers about vacation rentals. Given the
    diversified nature of our rental brands, there is limited
    dependence on a single customer group or business partner.


 



    Loyalty
    Program


 


    Our U.S. vacation exchange business’ member loyalty
    program is RCI Elite
    Rewards®,

    which offers a branded credit card, the RCI Elite Rewards credit
    card. The card allows members to earn reward points that can be
    redeemed for items related to our exchange programs, including
    annual membership dues and exchange fees for transactions, and
    other products offered by our vacation exchange business or
    certain third parties, including airlines and retailers.


 



    Internet


 


    Given the increasing interest of our members and rental
    customers to transact on the Internet, we invest and will
    continue to invest in cutting edge and innovative online
    technologies to ensure that our members and rental customers
    have access to similar information and services online that we
    provide through our call centers. Through our comprehensive
    RCI.com initiative, we have launched enhanced search
    capabilities that greatly simplify our search process and make
    it easier for a member to find a desired vacation. We have also
    greatly expanded our online content, including multiple resort
    pictures and high-definition videos, to help educate members
    about potential vacation options. Over the last several years,
    we have improved our web penetration for European rentals
    through enhancements that have moved the majority of bookings
    online. As our online distribution channels improve, members and
    rental customers will shift from transacting business through
    our call centers to transacting business online, which we expect
    will generate cost savings. By offering our members and rental
    customers the opportunity to transact business either through
    our call centers or online, we offer our members and rental
    customers the ability to use the distribution channel with which
    they are most comfortable. Regardless of the distribution
    channel our members and rental customers use, our goal is member
    and rental customer satisfaction and retention.


 



    Call
    Centers


 


    Our vacation exchange and rentals business services its members
    and rental customers through global call centers. The requests
    that we receive at our global call centers are handled by our
    vacation guides, who are trained to fulfill our members’
    and rental customers’ requests for vacation exchanges and
    rentals. When our members’ and rental customers’
    primary choices are unavailable in periods of high demand, our
    guides offer the next nearest match in order to fulfill the
    members’ and rental customers’ needs. Call centers are
    currently a significant distribution channel and therefore we
    invest resources and will continue to do so to ensure that
    members and rental customers continue to receive a high level of
    personalized customer service through our call centers.


 



    Marketing


 


    We market to our members and rental customers through direct
    mail and email, online distribution channels, brochures,
    magazines and travel agencies. Our vacation exchange and rentals
    business has over 50 publications involved in the marketing of
    the business. RCI publishes Endless Vacation magazine, a
    travel publication that has a circulation of over
    1.8 million. Our vacation exchange and rentals business
    also publishes resort directories and other periodicals related
    to the vacation and vacation ownership industry and other
    travel-related services. We acquire rental customers through our
    direct-to-consumer
    marketing, internet marketing and third-party agent marketing
    programs. We use our publications not only for marketing, but
    also for member and rental customer retention. Additionally, we
    promote our offerings to owners of resorts and homes through
    publications, trade shows online and other marketing efforts.


 



    Strategies


 


    We intend to grow our vacation exchange and rentals business
    profitability by focusing on three core strategies:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        optimize and expand our vacation exchange business;




 



        •       
    

        expand our rentals business; and




 



        •       
    

        enhance our operating margins.





 


    Our plans generally focus on pursuing these strategies
    organically. However, in appropriate circumstances, we will
    consider opportunities to acquire businesses, both domestic and
    international.




    
    16



Table of Contents





    Optimize and Expand Exchange. Our strategy
    for optimizing and expanding our vacation exchange business
    involves moving to more flexible offerings to maintain our
    global leadership position in the marketplace. We intend to
    accomplish this through enhancements to our base products,
    including RCI Weeks and RCI Points, expanding our presence in
    the luxury exchange segment via The Registry Collection, and
    leveraging our extensive member database (currently
    3.8 million members) and co-marketing partnerships to drive
    additional revenues. We also plan to continue to expand our
    online capabilities and maximize efficiencies by driving more
    exchange transactions to the Internet. This will improve overall
    member satisfaction and leverage our investment in information
    technology to drive cost savings. In addition, we intend to
    enhance our affiliate and member value propositions by adding
    new affiliates to our current portfolio and expanding our
    current affiliate relationships, and by improving marketing and
    communications to our member base. We are also able to increase
    our pricing over time and believe we can add value to products
    and services to support higher pricing. Finally, in order to
    provide member access to inventory to fuel transactions, we will
    work more closely with our affiliates and members to secure a
    broad range of inventory to meet our members’ needs.


 


    Expand Rentals. Our strategy for expanding
    our rentals business involves building upon our European
    business model by growing in existing geographies, expanding in
    high demand destination markets and effectively leveraging our
    large consumer base. We will continue to grow our Novasol brand
    in its current geographies and in Southern Europe, expand the
    Landal GreenParks model organically by adding new franchise
    parks and grow our Holiday Cottages Group of brands by targeting
    the UK customer.


 


    In the U.S., we will leverage our European rental expertise to
    grow our presence in the vacation rental category, which is
    currently fragmented and disorganized. We will consider
    appropriate acquisition opportunities to help us build our
    position in both the U.S. and European vacation rentals
    markets.


 


    Enhance Margins. We plan to continue to
    reduce costs, improve efficiency and evaluate opportunities to
    improve pricing and yield across all our businesses. In
    exchange, we have a comprehensive program to improve internet
    capabilities that, in addition to improving member satisfaction
    and retention, is expected to reduce both marketing and
    operating costs. In rentals, we will continue to leverage our
    multiple European rental businesses where sales, marketing,
    technology and operating synergies present themselves as we
    continue to increase online share.


 



    Seasonality


 


    Vacation exchange and rentals revenues are generally higher in
    the first and third quarters than in the second or fourth
    quarters. Vacation exchange transaction revenues are normally
    highest in the first quarter, which is generally when members of
    RCI plan and book their vacations for the year. Rental
    transaction revenues earned from booking vacation rentals to
    rental customers are usually highest in the third quarter, when
    vacation rentals are highest. More than half of our vacation
    rental customers book their reservations within 11 weeks of
    departure dates and more than 70% of our rental customers book
    their reservations within 20 weeks of departure dates,
    reflecting recent trends of bookings closer to the travel date.


 



    Competition


 


    The vacation exchange and rentals business faces competition
    throughout the world. Our vacation exchange business competes
    with a third-party international exchange company, with regional
    and local vacation exchange companies and with Internet-only
    limited service exchanges. In addition, certain developers offer
    exchanges through internal networks of properties, which can be
    operated by us or by the developer, that offer owners of
    intervals access to exchanges other than those offered by our
    vacation exchange business. Our vacation rentals business faces
    competition from a broad variety of professional vacation rental
    managers and
    rent-by-owner
    channels that collectively use brokerage services, direct
    marketing and the Internet to market and rent vacation
    properties.


 



    WYNDHAM
    VACATION OWNERSHIP


 



    Vacation
    Ownership Industry


 


    The global vacation ownership industry, which is also referred
    to as the timeshare industry, is a component of the domestic and
    international hospitality industry. The vacation ownership
    industry enables customers to share ownership of a
    fully-furnished vacation accommodation. Typically, a vacation
    ownership purchaser acquires either a fee simple interest in a
    property, which gives the purchaser title to a fraction of a
    unit, or a right to use a property, which gives the purchaser
    the right to use a property for a specific period of time.
    Generally, a vacation ownership purchaser’s fee simple
    interest in or right to use a property is referred to as a
    “vacation ownership interest.” For many vacation
    ownership interest purchasers, vacation ownership is an
    attractive vacation alternative to traditional lodging
    accommodations at hotels or owning vacation properties. Owners
    of vacation ownership interests are not subject to the variance
    in room rates to which lodging customers are subject, and
    vacation ownership units are, on





    
    17



Table of Contents





    average, more than twice the size of traditional hotel rooms and
    typically have more amenities, such as kitchens, than do
    traditional hotel rooms.


 


    The vacation ownership concept originated in Europe during the
    late 1960s and spread to the United States shortly thereafter.
    The vacation ownership industry expanded slowly in the United
    States until the mid-1980s. From the mid-1980s through 2007, the
    vacation ownership industry grew at a double-digit CAGR,
    although sales slowed by approximately 8% in 2008 and
    experienced even greater declines in 2009 due to the global
    recession and a significant disruption in the credit markets.
    Based on research by the American Resort Development Association
    or ARDA, a trade association representing the vacation ownership
    and resort development industries, domestic sales of vacation
    ownership interests were approximately $9.7 billion in 2008
    compared to $6.5 billion in 2003. ARDA estimated that in
    2009, there were approximately 6.8 million households that
    owned one or more vacation ownership interests in the United
    States.


 


    Based on published industry data, we believe that the following
    factors have contributed to the substantial growth, particularly
    in North America, of the vacation ownership industry over the
    past two decades:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        increased consumer confidence in the industry based on enhanced
    consumer protection regulation of the industry;




 



        •       
    

        entry of widely-known lodging and entertainment companies into
    the industry;




 



        •       
    

        inherent appeal of a timeshare vacation option as opposed to a
    hotel stay;




 



        •       
    

        increased flexibility for owners of vacation ownership interests
    made possible through owners’ affiliations with vacation
    ownership exchange companies and vacation ownership
    companies’ internal exchange programs; and




 



        •       
    

        improvement in quality of resorts and resort management and
    servicing.





 


    Demographic factors explain, in part, the growth of the
    industry. A 2008 study of recent vacation ownership purchasers
    revealed that the average purchaser was 53 years of age and
    had a median household income of $73,000. The average purchaser
    in the United States, therefore, is a baby boomer who has
    disposable income and interest in purchasing vacation products.
    We believe that baby boomers will continue to have a positive
    influence on the vacation ownership industry.


 


    According to information compiled by ARDA, the four primary
    reasons consumers cite for purchasing vacation ownership
    interests are: (i) flexibility with respect to different
    locations, unit sizes and times of year, (ii) the certainty
    of quality accommodations, (iii) credibility of the
    timeshare company and (iv) the opportunity to exchange into
    other resort locations. According to a 2008 ARDA study, nearly
    85% of owners of vacation ownership interests expressed a
    general level of satisfaction with owning timeshare. With
    respect to exchange opportunities, most owners of vacation
    ownership interests can exchange vacation ownership interests
    through exchange companies and through the applicable vacation
    ownership company’s internal network of properties.


 



    Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership Overview


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership, our vacation ownership business,
    includes marketing and sales of vacation ownership interests,
    consumer financing in connection with the purchase by
    individuals of vacation ownership interests, property management
    services to property owners’ associations, and development
    and acquisition of vacation ownership resorts. We operate our
    vacation ownership business through our two primary brands,
    Wyndham Vacation Resorts and WorldMark by Wyndham. In October
    1999, WorldMark by Wyndham formed Wyndham Vacation Resorts Asia
    Pacific Pty. Ltd., a New South Wales corporation, or Wyndham
    Asia Pacific, as its direct wholly owned subsidiary for the
    purpose of conducting sales, marketing and resort development
    activities in the South Pacific. Wyndham Asia Pacific is
    currently the largest vacation ownership business in Australia.


 


    We have the largest vacation ownership business in the world as
    measured by the numbers of vacation ownership resorts, vacation
    ownership units and owners of vacation ownership interests and
    by annual revenues associated with the sale of vacation
    ownership interests. As of December 31, 2009, we have
    developed or acquired over 155 vacation ownership resorts in the
    United States, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and the South
    Pacific that represent approximately 20,000 individual vacation
    ownership units and over 820,000 owners of vacation ownership
    interests. During 2009, Wyndham Vacation Ownership expanded its
    portfolio with the addition of resorts in San Francisco,
    California; Prince George’s County, Maryland and
    Sevierville, Tennessee and added additional inventory at
    locations in Orlando, Florida; Steamboat Springs, Colorado;
    Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin; Kauai, Hawaii; New Braunfels, Texas;
    and Santa Fe, New Mexico.


 


    In response to worldwide economic conditions impacting the
    general availability of credit on which our vacation ownership
    business has historically been reliant, we announced in late
    2008 a plan to reduce our 2009 gross VOI sales by
    approximately 40% in order to reduce our need to access the
    asset-backed securities markets during





    
    18



Table of Contents





    2009 and beyond, and also significantly reduce costs and capital
    needs while enhancing cash flow. Accordingly, during 2009, we
    recorded approximately $1.3 billion in gross vacation
    ownership interest sales.


 


    Our primary vacation ownership brands, Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    and WorldMark by Wyndham, operate vacation ownership programs
    through which vacation ownership interests can be redeemed for
    vacations through points- or credits-based internal reservation
    systems that provide owners with flexibility (subject to
    availability) as to resort location, length of stay, unit type
    and time of year. The points- or credits-based reservation
    systems offer owners redemption opportunities for other travel
    and leisure products that may be offered from time to time, and
    the opportunity for owners to use our products for one or more
    vacations per year based on level of ownership. Our vacation
    ownership programs allow us to market and sell our vacation
    ownership products in variable quantities as opposed to the
    fixed quantity of the traditional, fixed-week vacation
    ownership, which is primarily sold on a weekly interval basis,
    and to offer to existing owners “upgrade” sales to
    supplement such owners’ existing vacation ownership
    interests. Although we operate Wyndham Vacation Resorts and
    WorldMark by Wyndham as separate brands, we have integrated
    substantially all of the business functions of Wyndham Vacation
    Resorts and WorldMark by Wyndham, including consumer finance,
    information technology, certain staff functions, product
    development and certain marketing activities.


 


    Our vacation ownership business derives a majority of its
    revenues from sales of vacation ownership interests and derives
    other revenues from consumer financing and property management.
    Because revenues from sales of vacation ownership interests and
    consumer finance in connection with such sales depend on the
    number of vacation ownership units in which we sell vacation
    ownership interests, increasing the number of such units is
    important to achieving our revenue goals. Because revenues from
    property management depend on the number of units we manage,
    increasing the number of such units has a direct effect of
    increasing our revenues from property management.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing of Vacation Ownership Interests and Property
    Management


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership is often involved in the development
    or acquisition of the resort properties in which it markets and
    sells vacation ownership interests. Wyndham Vacation Ownership
    also often acts as a property manager of such resorts and the
    related clubs. From time to time, Wyndham Vacation Ownership
    also sells home lots and other real estate interests at its
    resort properties.


 


    Vacation Ownership Interests, Portfolio of Resorts and
    Maintenance Fees. The vacation ownership interests
    that Wyndham Vacation Resorts markets and sells consist
    primarily of undivided interests that entitles an owner to
    ownership and usage rights that are not restricted to a
    particular week of the year. As of December 31, 2009, over
    515,000 owners held interests in Wyndham Vacation Resorts resort
    properties. Wyndham Vacation Resorts properties are located
    primarily in the United States and, as of December 31,
    2009, consisted of 74 resorts (six of which are shared with
    WorldMark by Wyndham) that represented approximately
    12,900 units. During 2009, Wyndham Vacation Resorts opened
    new properties in San Francisco, California; Prince
    George’s County, Maryland and Sevierville, Tennessee and
    added inventory at existing properties in Orlando, Florida;
    Steamboat Springs, Colorado; Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin; and
    Kauai, Hawaii.


 


    The majority of the resorts in which Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    develops, markets and sells vacation ownership and other real
    estate interests are destination resorts that are located at or
    near attractions such as the Walt Disney
    World®

    Resort in Florida; the Las Vegas Strip in Nevada; Myrtle Beach
    in South Carolina; Colonial
    Williamsburg®

    in Virginia; and the Hawaiian Islands. Most Wyndham Vacation
    Resorts properties are affiliated with Wyndham Worldwide’s
    vacation exchange business, RCI, which awards to the top 10% of
    RCI affiliated vacation ownership resorts throughout the world
    designations of an RCI Gold Crown Resort or an RCI Silver Crown
    Resort for exceptional resort standards and service levels.
    Among Wyndham Vacation Resorts’ 74 resort properties, 53
    have been awarded designations of an RCI Gold Crown Resort or an
    RCI Silver Crown Resort.


 


    After WorldMark by Wyndham or Wyndham Asia Pacific develops or
    acquires resorts, it conveys the resorts to WorldMark, The Club
    or WorldMark South Pacific Club, which we refer collectively as
    the Clubs, as applicable. In exchange for the conveyances,
    WorldMark by Wyndham or Wyndham Asia Pacific receives the
    exclusive rights to sell the vacation credits associated with
    the conveyed resorts and to receive the proceeds from the sales
    of the vacation credits. Vacation ownership interests sold by
    WorldMark by Wyndham and Wyndham Asia Pacific represent credits
    in the Clubs which entitle the owner of the credits to reserve
    units at the resorts that are owned and operated by the Clubs.
    Although vacation credits, unlike vacation ownership interests
    in Wyndham Vacation Resorts resort properties, do not constitute
    deeded interests in real estate, vacation credits are regulated
    in most jurisdictions by the same agency that regulates vacation
    ownership interests evidenced by deeded interests in real
    estate. As of December 31, 2009, over 305,000 owners held
    vacation credits in the Clubs.


 


    WorldMark by Wyndham resorts are located primarily in the
    Western United States, Canada, Mexico and the South Pacific and,
    as of December 31, 2009, consisted of 88 resorts (six of
    which are shared with Wyndham





    
    19



Table of Contents





    Vacation Resorts) that represented approximately
    7,200 units. Of the WorldMark by Wyndham resorts and units,
    Wyndham Asia Pacific has a total of 17 resorts with
    approximately 760 units. During 2009, WorldMark by Wyndham
    added inventory at existing properties located in Santa Fe,
    New Mexico and Steamboat Springs, Colorado.


 


    The resorts in which WorldMark by Wyndham develops, markets and
    sells vacation credits are primarily drive-to resorts. Most
    WorldMark by Wyndham resorts are affiliated with Wyndham
    Worldwide’s vacation exchange subsidiary, RCI. Among
    WorldMark by Wyndham’s 88 resorts, 56 have been awarded
    designations of an RCI Gold Crown Resort or an RCI Silver Crown
    Resort.


 


    Owners of vacation ownership interests pay annual maintenance
    fees to the property owners’ associations responsible for
    managing the applicable resorts or to the Clubs. The annual
    maintenance fee associated with the average vacation ownership
    interest purchased ranges from approximately $400 to
    approximately $900. These fees generally are used to renovate
    and replace furnishings, pay operating, maintenance and cleaning
    costs, pay management fees and expenses, and cover taxes (in
    some states), insurance and other related costs. Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership, as the owner of unsold inventory at resorts
    or unsold interests in the Clubs, also pays maintenance fees in
    accordance with the legal requirements of the states or
    jurisdictions in which the resorts are located. In addition, at
    certain newly-developed resorts, Wyndham Vacation Ownership
    sometimes enters into subsidy agreements with the property
    owners’ associations to cover costs that otherwise would be
    covered by annual maintenance fees payable with respect to
    vacation ownership interests that have not yet been sold.


 


    Club Wyndham Plus. Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    uses a points-based internal reservation system called Club
    Wyndham Plus (formerly known as FairShare Plus) to provide
    owners with flexibility (subject to availability) as to resort
    location, length of stay, unit type and time of year. With the
    launch of Club Wyndham Plus in 1991, Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    became one of the first U.S. developers of vacation
    ownership properties to move from traditional, fixed-week
    vacation ownership to a points-based program. Owners of vacation
    ownership interests in Wyndham Vacation Resorts properties that
    are eligible to participate in the program may elect, and with
    respect to certain resorts are obligated, to participate in Club
    Wyndham Plus.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Resorts currently offers two vacation ownership
    programs, Club Wyndham Select and Club Wyndham Access. Club
    Wyndham Select owners purchase an undivided interest at a select
    resort and receive a deed to that resort, which becomes their
    “home” resort. Club Wyndham Access owners do not
    directly receive a deed, but own an interest in a perpetual
    club. Through Club Wyndham Plus, Club Wyndham Access owners have
    advanced reservation priority access to the multiple Wyndham
    Vacation Resorts locations based on the amount of inventory
    deeded to Club Wyndham Access. Both vacation ownership options
    utilize Club Wyndham Plus as the internal exchange program to
    expand owners’ vacation opportunities.


 


    Owners who participate in Club Wyndham Plus assign their rights
    to use fixed weeks and undivided interests, as applicable, to a
    trust in exchange for the right to reserve in the internal
    reservation system. The number of points that an owner receives
    as a result of the assignment to the trust of the owner’s
    right to use fixed weeks or undivided interests, and the number
    of points required to take a particular vacation, is set forth
    on a published schedule and varies depending on the resort
    location, length of stay, unit type and time of year associated
    with the interests assigned to the trust or requested by the
    owner, as applicable. Participants in Club Wyndham Plus may
    choose (subject to availability) the Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    resort properties, length of stay, unit types and times of year,
    depending on the number of points to which they are entitled and
    the number of points required to take the vacations of their
    preference. Participants in the program may redeem their points
    not only for resort stays, but also for other travel and leisure
    products that may be offered from time to time. Owners of
    vacation points are able to borrow vacation points from the next
    year for use in the current year. Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    offers various programs that provide existing owners with the
    opportunity to “upgrade,” or acquire additional
    vacation ownership interests to increase the number of points
    such owners can use in Club Wyndham Plus.


 


    WorldMark, The Club and WorldMark South Pacific
    Club. The Clubs provide owners of vacation credits
    with flexibility (subject to availability) as to resort
    location, length of stay, unit type and time of year. Depending
    on how many vacation credits an owner has purchased, the owner
    may use the vacation credits for one or more vacations annually.
    The number of vacation credits that are required for each
    day’s stay at a unit is listed on a published schedule and
    varies depending upon the resort location, unit type, time of
    year and the day of the week. Owners may also redeem their
    credits for other travel and leisure products that may be
    offered from time to time.


 


    Owners of vacation credits are also able to purchase bonus time
    from the Clubs for use when space is available. Bonus time gives
    owners the opportunity to use available resorts on short notice
    and at a reduced rate and to obtain usage beyond owners’
    allotments of vacation credits. In addition, WorldMark by
    Wyndham offers owners the opportunity to “upgrade,” or
    acquire additional vacation credits to increase the number of
    credits such owners can use in the Clubs.




    
    20



Table of Contents





    Owners of vacation credits can make reservations through the
    Clubs, or may elect to join and exchange their vacation
    ownership interests through our vacation exchange business, RCI,
    or other third-party international exchange companies.


 


    Program, Property Management and Club
    Management. In exchange for management fees,
    Wyndham Vacation Resorts, itself or through a Wyndham Vacation
    Resorts affiliate, manages Club Wyndham Plus, the majority of
    property owners’ associations at resorts in which Wyndham
    Vacation Resorts develops, markets and sells vacation ownership
    interests, and property owners’ associations at resorts
    developed by third parties. On behalf of Club Wyndham Plus,
    Wyndham Vacation Resorts or its affiliate manages the
    reservation system for Club Wyndham Plus and provides owner
    services and billing and collections services. The term of the
    trust agreement of Club Wyndham Plus runs through
    December 31, 2025, and the term is automatically extended
    for successive ten year periods unless a majority of the members
    of the program vote to terminate the trust agreement prior to
    the expiration of the term then in effect. The term of the
    management agreement, under which Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    manages the Club Wyndham Plus program, is for five years and is
    automatically renewed annually. for successive terms of five
    years, provided the trustee under the program does not serve
    notice of termination to Wyndham Vacation Resorts at the end of
    any calendar year. On behalf of property owners’
    associations, Wyndham Vacation Resorts or its affiliates
    generally provide
    day-to-day
    management for vacation ownership resorts, including oversight
    of housekeeping services, maintenance and refurbishment of the
    units, and provides certain accounting and administrative
    services to property owners’ associations. We receive fees
    for such property management services which are generally based
    upon total costs to operate such resorts. Such fees range
    generally approximate 10%. The terms of the property management
    agreements with the property owners’ associations at
    resorts in which Wyndham Vacation Resorts develops, markets and
    sells vacation ownership interests vary; however, the vast
    majority of the agreements provide a mechanism for automatic
    renewal upon expiration of the terms. At some established sites,
    the property owners’ associations have entered into
    property management agreements with professional management
    companies other than Wyndham Vacation Resorts or its affiliates.


 


    In exchange for management fees, WorldMark by Wyndham, itself or
    through a WorldMark by Wyndham affiliate, serves as the
    exclusive property manager and servicing agent of the Clubs and
    all resort units owned or operated by the Clubs. On behalf of
    the Clubs, WorldMark by Wyndham or its affiliate provides
    day-to-day
    management for vacation ownership resorts, including oversight
    of housekeeping services, maintenance and refurbishment of the
    units, and provides certain accounting and administrative
    services. WorldMark by Wyndham or its affiliate also manages the
    reservation system for the Clubs and provides owner services and
    billing and collections services.


 



    Sales and
    Marketing Channels and Programs


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership employs a variety of marketing
    channels as part of Wyndham Vacation Resorts and WorldMark by
    Wyndham marketing programs to encourage prospective owners of
    vacation ownership interests to tour Wyndham Vacation Ownership
    properties and attend sales presentations at off-site sales
    offices. Our resort-based sales centers also enable us to
    actively solicit upgrade sales to existing owners of vacation
    ownership interests while such owners vacation at our resort
    properties. Sales of vacation ownership interests relating to
    upgrades represented approximately 64%, 51% and 44% of our net
    sales of vacation ownership interests during 2009, 2008 and
    2007, respectively.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership uses a variety of marketing programs
    to attract prospective owners, including sponsored contests that
    offer vacation packages or gifts, targeted mailings, outbound
    and inbound telemarketing efforts, and in association with
    Wyndham Worldwide hotel brands and associated loyalty and
    marketing programs. Wyndham Vacation Ownership also co-sponsors
    sweepstakes, giveaways and promotional programs with
    professional teams at major sporting events and with other third
    parties at other high-traffic consumer events. Where permissible
    under state law, Wyndham Vacation Ownership offers existing
    owners cash awards or other incentives for referrals of new
    owners.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s marketing and sales activities
    are often facilitated through marketing alliances with other
    travel, hospitality, entertainment, gaming and retail companies
    that provide access to such companies’ present and past
    customers through a variety of co-branded marketing offers.
    Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s resort-based sales centers,
    which are located in popular travel destinations throughout the
    United States, generate substantial tour flow through providing
    local offers. The sales centers enable Wyndham Vacation
    Ownership to market to tourists already visiting destination
    areas. Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s marketing agents, which
    often operate on the premises of the hospitality, entertainment,
    gaming and retail companies with which Wyndham Vacation
    Ownership has alliances within these markets, solicit local
    tourists with offers relating to activities and entertainment in
    exchange for the tourists visiting the local resorts and
    attending sales presentations.


 


    An example of a marketing alliance through which Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership markets to tourists already visiting
    destination areas is Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s current
    arrangement with Harrah’s Entertainment in Las





    
    21



Table of Contents





    Vegas, Nevada, which enables Wyndham Vacation Ownership to
    operate concierge-style marketing kiosks throughout
    Harrah’s Casino that permit Wyndham Vacation Ownership to
    solicit patrons to attend tours and sales presentations with
    Harrah’s-related rewards and entertainment offers, such as
    gaming chips, show tickets and dining certificates. Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership also operates its primary Las Vegas sales
    center within Harrah’s Casino and regularly shuttles
    prospective owners targeted by such sales centers to and from
    Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s nearby resort property.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership offers a variety of entry-level
    programs and products as part of its sales strategies. One such
    program allows prospective owners to acquire one-year’s
    worth of points or credits with no further obligations; another
    such product is a biennial interest that provides for vacations
    every other year. As part of its sales strategies, Wyndham
    Vacation Ownership relies on its points/credits-based programs,
    which provide prospective owners with the flexibility to buy
    relatively small packages of points or credits, which can be
    upgraded at a later date. To facilitate upgrades among existing
    owners, Wyndham Vacation Ownership markets opportunities for
    owners to purchase additional points or credits through periodic
    marketing campaigns and promotions to owners while those owners
    vacation at Wyndham Vacation Ownership resort properties.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership’s resort-based sales centers
    also enable Wyndham Vacation Ownership to actively solicit
    upgrade sales to existing owners of vacation ownership interests
    while such owners vacation at Wyndham Vacation Ownership resort
    properties. In addition, we also operate a telesales program
    designed to solicit upgrade sales to existing owners of our
    products.


 



    Purchaser
    Financing


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership offers financing to purchasers of
    vacation ownership interests. By offering consumer financing, we
    are able to reduce the initial cash required by customers to
    purchase vacation ownership interests, thereby enabling us to
    attract additional customers and generate substantial
    incremental revenues and profits. Wyndham Vacation Ownership
    funds and services loans extended by Wyndham Vacation Resorts
    and WorldMark by Wyndham through our consumer financing
    subsidiary, Wyndham Consumer Finance, a wholly owned subsidiary
    of Wyndham Vacation Resorts based in Las Vegas, Nevada that
    performs loan financing, servicing and related administrative
    functions.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership typically performs a credit
    investigation or other review or inquiry into every
    purchaser’s credit history before offering to finance a
    portion of the purchase price of the vacation ownership
    interests. Wyndham Vacation Ownership offers purchasers with
    good credit ratings an enhanced financing option. The interest
    rate offered to participating purchasers is determined from
    automated underwriting based upon the purchaser’s credit
    score, the amount of the down payment and the size of purchase.
    Wyndham Vacation Ownership offers purchasers an interest rate
    reduction if they participate in their pre-authorized checking,
    or PAC, programs, pursuant to which our consumer financing
    subsidiary each month debits a purchaser’s bank account or
    major credit card in the amount of the monthly payment by a
    pre-authorized fund transfer on the payment date.


 


    During 2009, we generated new receivables of $970 million
    on gross vacation ownership sales of $1.3 billion, which
    amounts to 74% of vacation ownership sales being financed.
    However, the 74% is prior to the receipt of addenda cash.
    Addenda cash represents the cash received for full payment of a
    loan within 15 to 60 days of origination. After the
    application of addenda cash, approximately 56% of vacation
    ownership sales are financed, with the remaining 44% being cash
    sales.


 


    Wyndham Vacation Ownership generally requires a minimum down
    payment of 10% of the purchase price on all sales of vacation
    ownership interests and offer consumer financing for the
    remaining balance for up to ten years. While the minimum is
    generally 10%, during 2009, our average down payment was
    approximately 20% for financed sales of vacation ownership
    sales. These loans are structured so that we receive equal
    monthly installments that fully amortize the principal due by
    the final due date.


 


    Similar to other companies that provide consumer financing, we
    historically securitize a majority of the receivables originated
    in connection with the sales of our vacation ownership
    interests. We initially place the financed contracts into a
    revolving warehouse securitization facility generally within 30
    to 90 days after origination. Many of the receivables are
    subsequently transferred from the warehouse securitization
    facility and placed into term securitization facilities.


 



    Servicing
    and Collection Procedures


 


    Our consumer financing subsidiary is responsible for the
    maintenance of contract receivables files and all customer
    service, billing and collection activities related to the
    domestic loans we extend. We assess the performance of our loan
    portfolio by monitoring numerous metrics including collections
    rates, defaults by state residency and bankruptcies. Our
    consumer financing subsidiary also places loans pledged in our
    warehouse and term securitization facilities. As of
    December 31, 2009, our loan portfolio was 94.9% current
    (i.e., not more than 30 days past due).




    
    22



Table of Contents






    Strategies


 


    In accordance with our previously announced plans to reduce the
    size and scope of our vacation ownership business we intend to:


 




    
    
    



     
        •    

    
    pursue a multitude of strategies primarily designed to manage
    our vacation ownership business for cash flow; and




 



     
        •    

    
    drive greater sales and marketing efficiencies at all levels.





 


    Manage for Cash Flow. We plan to increasingly
    manage our business for cash flow by improving the quality of
    our loan portfolio through maintaining more restrictive
    financing terms for customers that fall within our lower credit
    classifications, driving higher down payments at the time of
    sale, and strengthening the effectiveness of our collections
    efforts.


 


    We also plan to continue our efforts to develop a
    fee-for-service
    timeshare sales model designed to capitalize upon the large
    quantities of newly developed, nearly completed or recently
    finished condominium or hotel inventory within the current real
    estate market without assuming the significant cost that
    accompanies new construction. The business model, which we call
    the Wyndham Asset Affiliation Model (WAAM), will offer turn-key
    solutions for developers or banks in possession of newly
    developed inventory, which we will sell for a fee through our
    extensive sales and marketing channels. This model may enable us
    to expand our resort portfolio with little or no capital
    deployment, while providing additional channels for new owner
    acquisition and growth for our
    fee-for-service
    consumer financing, servicing operations and property management
    business.


 


    Drive Greater Sales and Marketing
    Efficiency. We plan to drive greater sales and
    marketing efficiencies by aggressively applying our strengthened
    tour qualification standards through the use of a proprietary
    lead screening model in order to limit our marketing activities
    to only the highest quality prospects both in terms of such
    persons’ interest in purchasing our products and their
    demonstrated ability to self-finance
    and/or
    qualify for our restrictive financing terms.


 


    We will continue to focus our efforts on current owners, our
    most efficient and reliable marketing prospect, as well as
    highly qualified prospect categories including certain existing
    Wyndham Hotel Group customers and consumers affiliated with the
    Wyndham Rewards and Wyndham By Request loyalty programs, for
    example. We will also seek to develop and market mixed-use hotel
    and vacation ownership properties in conjunction with the
    Wyndham brand. The mixed-use properties would afford us access
    to both hotel clients in higher income demographics for the
    purpose of marketing vacation ownership interests and hotel
    inventory for use in our marketing programs.


 



    Seasonality


 


    We rely, in part, upon tour flow to generate sales of vacation
    ownership interests; consequently, sales volume tends to
    increase in the spring and summer months as a result of greater
    tour flow from spring and summer travelers. Revenues from sales
    of vacation ownership interests therefore are generally higher
    in the second and third quarters than in other quarters. We
    cannot predict whether these seasonal trends will continue in
    the future.


 



    Competition


 


    The vacation ownership industry is highly competitive and is
    comprised of a number of companies specializing primarily in
    sales and marketing, consumer financing, property management and
    development of vacation ownership properties. In addition, a
    number of national hospitality chains develop and sell vacation
    ownership interests to consumers.


 



    Trademarks


 


    We own the trademarks “Wyndham Vacation Ownership,”
    “Wyndham Vacation Resorts,” “WorldMark by
    Wyndham,” and “Club Wyndham Plus” and related
    trademarks and logos, and such trademarks and logos are material
    to the businesses that are part of our vacation ownership
    business. Our subsidiaries actively use these marks, and all of
    the material marks are registered (or have applications pending)
    with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office as well as with
    the relevant authorities in major countries worldwide where
    these businesses have significant operations. We own the
    “WorldMark” trademark pursuant to an assignment
    agreement with WorldMark, The Club. Pursuant to the assignment
    agreement, WorldMark, The Club may request that the mark be
    reassigned to it only in the event of a termination of the
    WorldMark vacation ownership programs.


 



    EMPLOYEES


 


    As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately
    24,600 employees, including approximately
    7,800 employees outside of the U.S. As of
    December 31, 2009, our lodging business had approximately
    4,200 employees, our vacation exchange and rentals business
    had approximately 7,400 employees and our vacation
    ownership business





    
    23



Table of Contents





    had approximately 12,500 employees. Approximately 1% of our
    employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements
    governing their employment with our company. We believe that our
    relations with employees are good.


 



    ENVIRONMENTAL
    COMPLIANCE


 


    Our compliance with laws and regulations relating to
    environmental protection and discharge of hazardous materials
    has not had a material impact on our capital expenditures,
    earnings or competitive position, and we do not anticipate any
    material impact from such compliance in the future.


 



    Where You
    Can Find More Information


 


    We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements
    and other information with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission. Our SEC filings are available to the public over the
    Internet at the SEC’s website at
    http://www.sec.gov.
    Our SEC filings are also available on our website at
    http://www.WyndhamWorldwide.com
    as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or
    furnished to the SEC. You may also read and copy any filed
    document at the SEC’s public reference room in
    Washington, D.C. at 100 F Street, N.E.,
    Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330
    for further information about public reference rooms.


 


    We maintain an Internet site at
    http://www.WyndhamWorldwide.com.
    Our website and the information contained on or connected to
    that site are not incorporated into this annual report.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Before you invest in our securities you should carefully
    consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other
    information provided in this report. We believe that the
    following information identifies the most significant risk
    factors affecting us. However, the risks and uncertainties we
    face are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors
    described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
    immaterial may also adversely affect our business. In addition,
    past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of
    future performance and historical trends should not be used to
    anticipate results or trends in future periods.


 


    If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into
    actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
    In such case, the trading price of our common stock could
    decline.


 



    The
    hospitality industry is highly competitive and we are subject to
    risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our
    performance.


 


    We will be adversely impacted if we cannot compete effectively
    in the highly competitive hospitality industry. Our continued
    success depends upon our ability to compete effectively in
    markets that contain numerous competitors, some of which may
    have significantly greater financial, marketing and other
    resources than we have. Competition may reduce fee structures,
    potentially causing us to lower our fees or prices, which may
    adversely impact our profits. New competition or existing
    competition that uses a business model that is different from
    our business model may put pressure on us to change our model so
    that we can remain competitive.


 



    Our
    revenues are highly dependent on the travel industry and
    declines in or disruptions to the travel industry, such as those
    caused by economic slowdown, terrorism, acts of God and war may
    adversely affect us.


 


    Declines in or disruptions to the travel industry may adversely
    impact us. Risks affecting the travel industry include: economic
    slowdown and recession; economic factors, such as increased
    costs of living and reduced discretionary income, adversely
    impacting consumers’ and businesses’ decisions to use
    and consume travel services and products; terrorist incidents
    and threats (and associated heightened travel security
    measures); acts of God (such as earthquakes, hurricanes, fires,
    floods and other natural disasters); war; pandemics or threat of
    pandemics (such as the H1N1 flu); increased pricing, financial
    instability and capacity constraints of air carriers; airline
    job actions and strikes; and increases in gasoline and other
    fuel prices.


 



    We are
    subject to operating or other risks common to the hospitality
    industry.


 


    Our business is subject to numerous operating or other risks
    common to the hospitality industry including:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        changes in operating costs, including inflation, energy, labor
    costs (including minimum wage increases and unionization),
    workers’ compensation and health-care related costs and
    insurance;




 



        •       
    

        changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or
    resorts in our business;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the supply and demand for hotel rooms, vacation
    exchange and rental services and vacation ownership products and
    services;




 



        •       
    

        seasonality in our businesses may cause fluctuations in our
    operating results;







    
    24



Table of Contents




 




    
    



        •       
    

        geographic concentrations of our operations and customers;




 



        •       
    

        availability of acceptable financing and cost of capital as they
    apply to us, our customers, current and potential hotel
    franchisees and developers, owners of hotels with which we have
    hotel management contracts, our RCI affiliates and other
    developers of vacation ownership resorts;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to securitize the receivables that we originate in
    connection with sales of vacation ownership interests;




 



        •       
    

        the risk that purchasers of vacation ownership interests who
    finance a portion of the purchase price default on their loans
    due to adverse macro or personal economic conditions or
    otherwise, which would increase loan loss reserves and adversely
    affect loan portfolio performance, each of which would
    negatively impact our results of operations; that if such
    defaults occur during the early part of the loan amortization
    period we will not have recovered the marketing, selling,
    administrative and other costs associated with such vacation
    ownership interest; such costs will be incurred again in
    connection with the resale of the repossessed vacation ownership
    interest; and the value we recover in a default is not, in all
    instances, sufficient to cover the outstanding debt;




 



        •       
    

        the quality of the services provided by franchisees, our
    vacation exchange and rentals business, resorts with units that
    are exchanged through our vacation exchange business
    and/or
    resorts in which we sell vacation ownership interests may
    adversely affect our image and reputation;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to generate sufficient cash to buy from third-party
    suppliers the products that we need to provide to the
    participants in our points programs who want to redeem points
    for such products;




 



        •       
    

        overbuilding in one or more segments of the hospitality industry
    and/or in
    one or more geographic regions;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the number and occupancy and room rates of hotels
    operating under franchise and management agreements;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the relative mix of franchised hotels in the various
    lodging industry price categories;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to develop and maintain positive relations and
    contractual arrangements with current and potential franchisees,
    hotel owners, vacation exchange members, vacation ownership
    interest owners, resorts with units that are exchanged through
    our vacation exchange business
    and/or
    owners of vacation properties that our vacation rentals business
    markets for rental;




 



        •       
    

        the availability of and competition for desirable sites for the
    development of vacation ownership properties; difficulties
    associated with obtaining entitlements to develop vacation
    ownership properties; liability under state and local laws with
    respect to any construction defects in the vacation ownership
    properties we develop; and our ability to adjust our pace of
    completion of resort development relative to the pace of our
    sales of the underlying vacation ownership interests;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to adjust our business model to generate greater
    cash flow and require less capital expenditures;




 



        •       
    

        private resale of vacation ownership interests could adversely
    affect our vacation ownership resorts and vacation exchange
    businesses;




 



        •       
    

        revenues from our lodging business are indirectly affected by
    our franchisees’ pricing decisions;




 



        •       
    

        organized labor activities and associated litigation;




 



        •       
    

        maintenance and infringement of our intellectual property;




 



        •       
    

        the bankruptcy or insolvency of any one of our customers could
    impair our ability to collect outstanding fees or other amounts
    due or otherwise exercise our contractual rights;




 



        •       
    

        increases in the use of third-party Internet services to book
    online hotel reservations could adversely impact our
    revenues; and




 



        •       
    

        disruptions in relationships with third parties, including
    marketing alliances and affiliations with
    e-commerce
    channels.





 



    We may
    not be able to achieve our growth objectives.


 


    We may not be able to achieve our growth objectives for
    increasing our cash flows, the number of franchised
    and/or
    managed properties in our lodging business, the number of
    vacation exchange members acquired by our vacation exchange
    business, the number of rental weeks sold by our vacation
    rentals business and the number of quality tours generated and
    vacation ownership interests sold by our vacation ownership
    business.




    
    25



Table of Contents





    We may be unable to identify acquisition targets that complement
    our businesses, and if we are able to identify suitable
    acquisition targets, we may not be able to complete acquisitions
    on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to complete
    acquisitions depends on a variety of factors, including our
    ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and requisite
    government approvals. If we are able to complete acquisitions,
    there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve the
    revenue and cost benefits that we expected in connection with
    such acquisitions or to successfully integrate the acquired
    businesses into our existing operations.


 



    Our
    international operations are subject to risks not generally
    applicable to our domestic operations.


 


    Our international operations are subject to numerous risks
    including: exposure to local economic conditions; potential
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the United States; hostility from local populations;
    restrictions and taxes on the withdrawal of foreign investment
    and earnings; government policies against businesses owned by
    foreigners; investment restrictions or requirements; diminished
    ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign
    countries; foreign exchange restrictions; fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates; local laws might conflict with
    U.S. laws; withholding and other taxes on remittances and
    other payments by subsidiaries; and changes in and application
    of foreign taxation structures including value added taxes.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to litigation filed by or against
    us.


 


    We are subject to a number of legal actions and the risk of
    future litigation as described under “Legal
    Proceedings”. We cannot predict with certainty the ultimate
    outcome and related damages and costs of litigation and other
    proceedings filed by or against us. Adverse results in
    litigation and other proceedings may harm our business.


 



    We are
    subject to certain risks related to our indebtedness, hedging
    transactions, our securitization of assets, our surety bond
    requirements, the cost and availability of capital and the
    extension of credit by us.


 


    We are a borrower of funds under our credit facilities, credit
    lines, senior notes and securitization financings. We extend
    credit when we finance purchases of vacation ownership
    interests. We use financial instruments to reduce or hedge our
    financial exposure to the effects of currency and interest rate
    fluctuations. We are required to post surety bonds in connection
    with our development activities. In connection with our debt
    obligations, hedging transactions, the securitization of certain
    of our assets, our surety bond requirements, the cost and
    availability of capital and the extension of credit by us, we
    are subject to numerous risks including:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        our cash flows from operations or available lines of credit may
    be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and
    interest, which could result in a default and acceleration of
    the underlying debt;




 



        •       
    

        if we are unable to comply with the terms of the financial
    covenants under our revolving credit facility, including a
    breach of the financial ratios or tests, such non-compliance
    could result in a default and acceleration of the underlying
    revolver debt and other debt that is cross-defaulted to these
    financial ratios;




 



        •       
    

        our leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain
    additional financing;




 



        •       
    

        our leverage may require the dedication of a significant portion
    of our cash flows to the payment of principal and interest thus
    reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital,
    capital expenditures or other operating needs;




 



        •       
    

        increases in interest rates;




 



        •       
    

        rating agency downgrades for our debt that could increase our
    borrowing costs;




 



        •       
    

        failure or non-performance of counterparties for foreign
    exchange and interest rate hedging transactions;




 



        •       
    

        we may not be able to securitize our vacation ownership contract
    receivables on terms acceptable to us because of, among other
    factors, the performance of the vacation ownership contract
    receivables, adverse conditions in the market for vacation
    ownership loan-backed notes and asset-backed notes in general,
    the credit quality and financial stability of insurers of
    securitizations transactions, and the risk that the actual
    amount of uncollectible accounts on our securitized vacation
    ownership contract receivables and other credit we extend is
    greater than expected;




 



        •       
    

        our securitizations contain portfolio performance triggers
    which, if violated, may result in a disruption or loss of cash
    flow from such transactions;




 



        •       
    

        a reduction in commitments from surety bond providers may impair
    our vacation ownership business by requiring us to escrow cash
    in order to meet regulatory requirements of certain states;







    
    26



Table of Contents




 




    
    



        •       
    

        prohibitive cost and inadequate availability of capital could
    restrict the development or acquisition of vacation ownership
    resorts by us and the financing of purchases of vacation
    ownership interests; and




 



        •       
    

        if interest rates increase significantly, we may not be able to
    increase the interest rate offered to finance purchases of
    vacation ownership interests by the same amount of the increase.





 



    Current
    economic conditions in the hospitality industry and in the
    global economy generally, including ongoing disruptions in the
    debt and equity capital markets, may adversely affect our
    business and results of operations, our ability to obtain
    financing
    and/or
    securitize our receivables on reasonable and acceptable terms,
    the performance of our loan portfolio and the market price of
    our common stock.


 


    The global economy is currently undergoing a recession, and the
    future economic environment may continue to be less favorable
    than that of recent years. The hospitality industry has
    experienced and may continue to experience significant downturns
    in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general
    economic conditions. The current economic downturn has been
    characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower
    corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer
    spending, leading to lower demand for hospitality products and
    services. Declines in consumer and commercial spending adversely
    affect our revenues and profits. We are unable to predict the
    likely duration and severity of the current adverse economic
    conditions and disruptions in debt, equity and asset-backed
    securities markets in the United States and other countries.


 


    The global stock and credit markets have experienced significant
    price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which
    have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate
    substantially and the spreads on prospective and outstanding
    debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have
    materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making
    terms for certain financings materially less attractive, and in
    certain cases have resulted in the unavailability of certain
    types of financing. This volatility and illiquidity has
    negatively affected a broad range of mortgage and asset-backed
    and other fixed income securities. As a result, the market for
    fixed income and asset-backed securities has experienced
    decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit
    downgrade events, and increased defaults. These factors and the
    continuing market disruption have an adverse effect on us, in
    part because we, like many public companies, from time to time
    raise capital in debt, equity and asset-backed securities
    markets.


 


    Our liquidity position may also be negatively affected if our
    vacation ownership contract receivables portfolios do not meet
    specified portfolio credit parameters. Our liquidity as it
    relates to our vacation ownership contract receivables
    securitization program could be adversely affected if we were to
    fail to renew or replace any of the facilities on their renewal
    dates or if a particular receivables pool were to fail to meet
    certain ratios, which could occur in certain instances if the
    default rates or other credit metrics of the underlying vacation
    ownership contract receivables deteriorate. Our ability to sell
    securities backed by our vacation ownership contract receivables
    depends on the continued ability and willingness of capital
    market participants to invest in such securities. Our ability to
    engage in securitization transactions on favorable terms or at
    all has been adversely affected by the disruptions in the
    capital markets and other events, including actions by rating
    agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. It is possible
    that asset-backed securities issued pursuant to our
    securitization programs could in the future be downgraded by
    credit agencies. If a downgrade occurs, our ability to complete
    other securitization transactions on acceptable terms or at all
    could be jeopardized, and we could be forced to rely on other
    potentially more expensive and less attractive funding sources,
    to the extent available, which would decrease our profitability
    and may require us to adjust our business operations
    accordingly, including reducing or suspending our financing to
    purchasers of vacation ownership interests.


 


    In addition, continued uncertainty in the stock and credit
    markets may negatively affect our ability to access additional
    short-term and long-term financing on reasonable terms or at
    all, which would negatively impact our liquidity and financial
    condition. In addition, if one or more of the financial
    institutions that support our existing credit facilities fails,
    we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively
    impact our ability to borrow under the credit facilities. These
    disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect
    our credit rating and the market value of our common stock. If
    the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not
    be able to refinance, if necessary, our outstanding debt when
    due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.
    While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet
    our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt servicing
    and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our
    operating results worsen significantly and our cash flow or
    capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates
    increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that
    could materially and adversely affect our results of operations
    and financial condition.


 



    Our
    businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the cost of
    compliance or failure to comply with such regulations may
    adversely affect us.


 


    Our businesses are heavily regulated by federal, state and local
    governments in the countries in which our operations are
    conducted. In addition, domestic and foreign federal, state and
    local regulators may enact new laws and regulations that may
    reduce our revenues, cause our expenses to increase
    and/or
    require us to modify substantially our business practices. If we
    are not in substantial compliance with applicable laws and
    regulations,





    
    27



Table of Contents





    including, among others, franchising, timeshare, lending,
    privacy, marketing and sales, telemarketing, licensing, labor,
    employment, health care, health and safety, accessibility,
    immigration, gaming, environmental, including climate change,
    and regulations applicable under the Office of Foreign Asset
    Control and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (and local
    equivalents in international jurisdictions), we may be subject
    to regulatory actions, fines, penalties and potential criminal
    prosecution.


 



    We are
    dependent on our senior management.


 


    We believe that our future growth depends, in part, on the
    continued services of our senior management team. Losing the
    services of any members of our senior management team could
    adversely affect our strategic and customer relationships and
    impede our ability to execute our business strategies.


 



    Our
    inability to adequately protect and maintain our intellectual
    property could adversely affect our business.


 


    Our inability to adequately protect and maintain our trademarks,
    trade dress and other intellectual property rights could
    adversely affect our business. We generate, maintain, utilize
    and enforce a substantial portfolio of trademarks, trade dress
    and other intellectual property that are fundamental to the
    brands that we use in all of our businesses. There can be no
    assurance that the steps we take to protect our intellectual
    property will be adequate. Any event that materially damages the
    reputation of one or more of our brands could have an adverse
    impact on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from
    that brand. The value of any brand is influenced by a number of
    factors, including consumer preference and perception and our
    failure to ensure compliance with brand standards.


 



    Disruptions
    and other impairment of our information technologies and systems
    could adversely affect our business.


 


    Any disaster, disruption or other impairment in our technology
    capabilities could harm our business. Our businesses depend upon
    the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems,
    including technology and systems utilized for reservation
    systems, vacation exchange systems, hotel/property management,
    communications, procurement, member record databases, call
    centers, operation of our loyalty programs and administrative
    systems. The operation, maintenance and updating of these
    technologies and systems is dependent upon internal and
    third-party technologies, systems and services for which there
    is no assurance of uninterrupted availability or adequate
    protection.


 



    Failure
    to maintain the security of personally identifiable information
    could adversely affect us.


 


    In connection with our business, we and our service providers
    collect and retain significant volumes of personally
    identifiable information, including credit card numbers of our
    customers and other personally identifiable information of our
    customers, stockholders and employees. Our customers,
    stockholders and employees expect that we will adequately
    protect their personal information, and the regulatory
    environment surrounding information security and privacy is
    increasingly demanding, both in the United States and other
    jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant theft, loss or
    fraudulent use of customer, stockholder, employee or Company
    data by cybercrime or otherwise could adversely impact our
    reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and
    litigation.


 



    The
    market price of our shares may fluctuate.


 


    The market price of our common stock may fluctuate depending
    upon many factors, some of which may be beyond our control,
    including: our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other
    companies in our industry; actual or anticipated fluctuations in
    our operating results due to seasonality and other factors
    related to our business; changes in accounting principles or
    rules; announcements by us or our competitors of significant
    acquisitions or dispositions; the failure of securities analysts
    to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by
    securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the
    operating and stock price performance of comparable companies;
    overall market fluctuations; and general economic conditions.
    Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has
    often been unrelated to the operating performance of a
    particular company. These broad market fluctuations may
    adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.


 



    Your
    percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in the
    future.


 


    Your percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in
    the future because of equity awards that we expect will be
    granted over time to our directors, officers and employees as
    well as due to the exercise of options issued. In addition, our
    Board may issue shares of our common and preferred stock, and
    debt securities convertible into shares of our common and
    preferred stock, up to certain regulatory thresholds without
    shareholder approval.




    
    28



Table of Contents






    Provisions
    in our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and under Delaware
    law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which
    could impact the trading price of our common stock.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and Delaware law
    contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover
    practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices
    or bids unacceptably expensive and to encourage prospective
    acquirors to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a
    hostile takeover. These provisions include: a Board of Directors
    that is divided into three classes with staggered terms;
    elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written
    consent; rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals
    or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; the
    right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder
    approval; and limitations on the right of stockholders to remove
    directors. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and
    other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or
    more of our outstanding common stock.


 



    We cannot
    provide assurance that we will continue to pay
    dividends.


 


    There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus
    under Delaware law to be able to continue to pay dividends. This
    may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses
    exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures,
    increases in reserves or lack of available capital. Our Board of
    Directors may also suspend the payment of dividends if the Board
    deems such action to be in the best interests of the Company or
    stockholders. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our
    common stock must appreciate for you to realize a gain on your
    investment in Wyndham Worldwide. This appreciation may not
    occur, and our stock may in fact depreciate in value.


 



    We are
    responsible for certain of Cendant’s contingent and other
    corporate liabilities.


 


    Under the separation agreement and the tax sharing agreement
    that we executed with Cendant (now Avis Budget Group) and former
    Cendant units, Realogy and Travelport, we and Realogy generally
    are responsible for 37.5% and 62.5%, respectively, of certain of
    Cendant’s contingent and other corporate liabilities and
    associated costs, including taxes imposed on Cendant and certain
    other subsidiaries and certain contingent and other corporate
    liabilities of Cendant
    and/or its
    subsidiaries to the extent incurred on or prior to
    August 23, 2006, including liabilities relating to certain
    of Cendant’s terminated or divested businesses, the
    Travelport sale, the Cendant litigation described in this report
    under “Cendant Litigation,” actions with respect to
    the separation plan and payments under certain contracts that
    were not allocated to any specific party in connection with the
    separation. In addition, each of us, Cendant, and Realogy may be
    responsible for 100% of certain of Cendant’s tax
    liabilities that will provide the responsible party with a
    future, offsetting tax benefit.


 


    If any party responsible for the liabilities described above
    were to default on its obligations, each non-defaulting party
    (including Avis Budget) would be required to pay an equal
    portion of the amounts in default. Accordingly, we could, under
    certain circumstances, be obligated to pay amounts in excess of
    our share of the assumed obligations related to such liabilities
    including associated costs. On or about April 10, 2007,
    Realogy Corporation was acquired by affiliates of Apollo
    Management VI, L.P. and its stock is no longer publicly traded.
    The acquisition does not negate Realogy’s obligation to
    satisfy 62.5% of such contingent and other corporate liabilities
    of Cendant or its subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of the
    separation agreement. As a result of the acquisition, however,
    Realogy has greater debt obligations and its ability to satisfy
    its portion of these liabilities may be adversely impacted. In
    accordance with the terms of the separation agreement, Realogy
    posted a letter of credit in April 2007 for our and
    Cendant’s benefit to cover its estimated share of the
    assumed liabilities discussed above, although there can be no
    assurance that such letter of credit will be sufficient to cover
    Realogy’s actual obligations if and when they arise.


 


    The IRS has commenced an audit of Cendant’s taxable years
    2003 through 2006, during which we were included in
    Cendant’s tax returns. Our recorded tax liabilities for
    these tax years represent our current best estimates of the
    probable outcome for certain tax positions taken by Cendant for
    which we would be responsible under the tax sharing agreement.
    The rules governing taxation are complex and subject to varying
    interpretations. Therefore, our tax accruals reflect a series of
    complex judgments about future events and rely heavily on
    estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the estimates
    and assumptions supporting our tax accruals are reasonable, tax
    audits and any related litigation could result in tax
    liabilities for us that are materially different than those
    reflected in our historical income tax provisions and recorded
    assets and liabilities. Further, there can be no assurance that
    the IRS will not propose adjustments to the returns for which we
    may be responsible under the tax sharing agreement or that any
    such proposed adjustments would not be material. The result of
    an audit or litigation could have a material adverse effect on
    our income tax provision
    and/or net
    income in the period or periods to which such audit or
    litigation relates
    and/or cash
    flows in the period or periods during which taxes due must be
    paid.




    
    29



Table of Contents






    We may be
    required to write-off a portion of the remaining goodwill value
    of companies we have acquired.


 


    Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our
    intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment at least
    annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the
    carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be
    considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the
    carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may
    not be recoverable, include a sustained decline in our stock
    price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow
    estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be
    required to record a significant non-cash impairment charge in
    our financial statements during the period in which any
    impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is
    determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and
    stockholders’ equity.


 





    
    



    
    ITEM 1B