ITEM 1A.  

    
    RISK
    FACTORS





 


    Before you invest in our securities you should carefully
    consider each of the following risk factors and all of the other
    information provided in this report. We believe that the
    following information identifies the most significant risk
    factors affecting us. However, the risks and uncertainties we
    face are not limited to those set forth in the risk factors
    described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not
    presently known to us or that we currently believe to be
    immaterial may also adversely affect our business. In addition,
    past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of
    future performance and historical trends should not be used to
    anticipate results or trends in future periods.



    
    28



Table of Contents




    If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into
    actual events, these events could have a material adverse effect
    on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
    In such case, the trading price of our common stock could
    decline.


 



    The
    hospitality industry is highly competitive and we are subject to
    risks relating to competition that may adversely affect our
    performance.


 


    We will be adversely impacted if we cannot compete effectively
    in the highly competitive hospitality industry. Our continued
    success depends upon our ability to compete effectively in
    markets that contain numerous competitors, some of which may
    have significantly greater financial, marketing and other
    resources than we have. Competition may reduce fee structures,
    potentially causing us to lower our fees or prices, which may
    adversely impact our profits. New competition or existing
    competition that uses a business model that is different from
    our business model may put pressure on us to change our model so
    that we can remain competitive.


 



    Our
    revenues are highly dependent on the travel industry and
    declines in or disruptions to the travel industry, such as those
    caused by economic slowdown, terrorism, acts of God and war may
    adversely affect us.


 


    Declines in or disruptions to the travel industry may adversely
    impact us. Risks affecting the travel industry include: economic
    slowdown and recession; economic factors, such as increased
    costs of living and reduced discretionary income, adversely
    impacting consumers’ and businesses’ decisions to use
    and consume travel services and products; terrorist incidents
    and threats (and associated heightened travel security
    measures); acts of God (such as earthquakes, hurricanes, fires,
    floods and other natural disasters); war; pandemics or threat of
    pandemics; increased pricing, financial instability and capacity
    constraints of air carriers; airline job actions and strikes;
    and increases in gas and other fuel prices.


 



    We are
    subject to operating or other risks common to the hospitality
    industry.


 


    Our business is subject to numerous operating or other risks
    common to the hospitality industry including:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        changes in operating costs, including energy, labor costs
    (including minimum wage increases and unionization),
    workers’ compensation and health-care related costs and
    insurance;




 



        •       
    

        changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels or
    resorts in our business;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the supply and demand for hotel rooms, vacation
    exchange and rental services and vacation ownership products and
    services;




 



        •       
    

        seasonality in our businesses may cause fluctuations in our
    operating results;




 



        •       
    

        geographic concentrations of our operations and customers;




 



        •       
    

        increases in costs due to inflation that may not be fully offset
    by price and fee increases in our business;




 



        •       
    

        availability of acceptable financing and cost of capital as they
    apply to us, our customers, current and potential hotel
    franchisees and developers, owners of hotels with which we have
    hotel management contracts, our RCI affiliates and other
    developers of vacation ownership resorts;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to securitize the receivables that we originate in
    connection with sales of vacation ownership interests;




 



        •       
    

        the risk that purchasers of vacation ownership interests who
    finance a portion of the purchase price default on their loans
    due to adverse macro or personal economic conditions or
    otherwise, which would increase loan loss reserves and adversely
    affect loan portfolio performance, each of which would
    negatively impact our results of operations; that if such
    defaults occur during the early part of the loan amortization
    period we will not have recovered the marketing, selling,
    administrative and other costs associated with such vacation
    ownership interest; such costs will be incurred again in
    connection with the resale of the repossessed vacation ownership
    interest; and the value we recover in a default is not, in all
    instances, sufficient to cover the outstanding debt;




 



        •       
    

        the quality of the services provided by franchisees, our
    vacation exchange and rentals business, resorts with units that
    are exchanged through our vacation exchange business
    and/or
    resorts in which we sell vacation ownership interests may
    adversely affect our image and reputation;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to generate sufficient cash to buy from third-party
    suppliers the products that we need to provide to the
    participants in our points programs who want to redeem points
    for such products;




 



        •       
    

        overbuilding in one or more segments of the hospitality industry
    and/or in
    one or more geographic regions;






    
    29



Table of Contents






    
    



        •       
    

        changes in the number and occupancy rates of hotels operating
    under franchise and management agreements;




 



        •       
    

        changes in the relative mix of franchised hotels in the various
    lodging industry price categories;




 



        •       
    

        our ability to develop and maintain positive relations and
    contractual arrangements with current and potential franchisees,
    hotel owners, resorts with units that are exchanged through our
    vacation exchange business
    and/or
    owners of vacation properties that our vacation rentals business
    markets for rental;




 



        •       
    

        the availability of and competition for desirable sites for the
    development of vacation ownership properties; difficulties
    associated with obtaining entitlements to develop vacation
    ownership properties; liability under state and local laws with
    respect to any construction defects in the vacation ownership
    properties we develop; and our ability to adjust our pace of
    completion of resort development relative to the pace of our
    sales of the underlying vacation ownership interests;




 



        •       
    

        private resale of vacation ownership interests could adversely
    affect our vacation ownership resorts and vacation exchange
    businesses;




 



        •       
    

        revenues from our lodging business are indirectly affected by
    our franchisees’ pricing decisions;




 



        •       
    

        organized labor activities and associated litigation;




 



        •       
    

        maintenance and infringement of our intellectual property;




 



        •       
    

        increases in the use of third-party Internet services to book
    online hotel reservations could adversely impact our
    revenues; and




 



        •       
    

        disruptions in relationships with third parties, including
    marketing alliances and affiliations with
    e-commerce
    channels.





 



    We may
    not be able to achieve our growth objectives.


 


    We may not be able to achieve our objectives for increasing the
    number of franchised
    and/or
    managed properties in our lodging business, the number of
    vacation exchange members acquired by our vacation exchange
    business, the number of rental weeks sold by our vacation
    rentals business and the number of tours generated and vacation
    ownership interests sold by our vacation ownership business.


 


    We may be unable to identify acquisition targets that complement
    our businesses, and if we are able to identify suitable
    acquisition targets, we may not be able to complete acquisitions
    on commercially reasonable terms. Our ability to complete
    acquisitions depends on a variety of factors, including our
    ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and requisite
    government approvals. If we are able to complete acquisitions,
    there is no assurance that we will be able to achieve the
    revenue and cost benefits that we expected in connection with
    such acquisitions or to successfully integrate the acquired
    businesses into our existing operations.


 



    Our
    international operations are subject to risks not generally
    applicable to our domestic operations.


 


    Our international operations are subject to numerous risks
    including: exposure to local economic conditions; potential
    adverse changes in the diplomatic relations of foreign countries
    with the United States; hostility from local populations;
    restrictions and taxes on the withdrawal of foreign investment
    and earnings; government policies against businesses owned by
    foreigners; investment restrictions or requirements; diminished
    ability to legally enforce our contractual rights in foreign
    countries; foreign exchange restrictions; fluctuations in
    foreign currency exchange rates; local laws might conflict with
    U.S. laws; withholding and other taxes on remittances and
    other payments by subsidiaries; and changes in and application
    of foreign taxation structures including value added taxes.


 



    We are
    subject to risks related to litigation filed by or against
    us.


 


    We are subject to a number of legal actions and the risk of
    future litigation as described under “Legal
    Proceedings”. We cannot predict with certainty the ultimate
    outcome and related damages and costs of litigation and other
    proceedings filed by or against us. Adverse results in
    litigation and other proceedings may harm our business.


 



    We are
    subject to certain risks related to our indebtedness, hedging
    transactions, our securitization of assets, our surety bond
    requirements, the cost and availability of capital and the
    extension of credit by us.


 


    We are a borrower of funds under our credit facilities, credit
    lines, senior notes and securitization financings. We extend
    credit when we finance purchases of vacation ownership
    interests. We use financial instruments to reduce or hedge our
    financial exposure to the effects of currency and interest rate
    fluctuations. We are required to post surety bonds in connection
    with our development activities. In connection with our debt
    obligations, hedging



    
    30



Table of Contents




    transactions, the securitization of certain of our assets, our
    surety bond requirements and the extension of credit by us, we
    are subject to numerous risks including:


 




    
    



        •       
    

        our cash flows from operations or available lines of credit may
    be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and
    interest, which could result in a default and acceleration of
    the underlying debt;




 



        •       
    

        if we are unable to comply with the terms of the financial
    covenants under our revolving credit facility, including a
    breach of the financial ratios or tests, such non-compliance
    could result in a default and acceleration of the underlying
    revolver debt and other debt that is cross-defaulted to these
    financial ratios;




 



        •       
    

        our leverage may adversely affect our ability to obtain
    additional financing;




 



        •       
    

        our leverage may require the dedication of a significant portion
    of our cash flows to the payment of principal and interest thus
    reducing the availability of cash flows to fund working capital,
    capital expenditures or other operating needs;




 



        •       
    

        increases in interest rates;




 



        •       
    

        rating agency downgrades for our debt that could increase our
    borrowing costs;




 



        •       
    

        failure or non-performance of counterparties for foreign
    exchange and interest rate hedging transactions;




 



        •       
    

        we may not be able to securitize our vacation ownership contract
    receivables on terms acceptable to us because of, among other
    factors, the performance of the vacation ownership contract
    receivables, adverse conditions in the market for vacation
    ownership loan-backed notes and asset-backed notes in general,
    the credit quality and financial stability of insurers of
    securitizations transactions, and the risk that the actual
    amount of uncollectible accounts on our securitized vacation
    ownership contract receivables and other credit we extend is
    greater than expected;




 



        •       
    

        our securitizations contain portfolio performance triggers
    which, if violated, may result in a disruption or loss of cash
    flow from such transactions;




 



        •       
    

        a reduction in commitments from surety bond providers may impair
    our vacation ownership business by requiring us to escrow cash
    in order to meet regulatory requirements of certain states;




 



        •       
    

        prohibitive cost and inadequate availability of capital could
    restrict the development or acquisition of vacation ownership
    resorts by us and the financing of purchases of vacation
    ownership interests; and




 



        •       
    

        if interest rates increase significantly, we may not be able to
    increase the interest rate offered to finance purchases of
    vacation ownership interests by the same amount of the increase.





 



    Current
    economic conditions in the hospitality industry and in the
    global economy generally, including ongoing disruptions in the
    debt and equity capital markets, may adversely affect our
    business and results of operations, our ability to obtain
    financing and/or securitize our receivables on reasonable and
    acceptable terms, the performance of our loan portfolio and the
    market price of our common stock.


 


    The global economy is currently undergoing a slowdown, which
    some observers view as a deepening recession, and the future
    economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that
    of recent years. The hospitality industry has experienced and
    may continue to experience significant downturns in connection
    with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic
    conditions. The current economic downturn has been characterized
    by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate
    earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending,
    leading to lowered demand for hospitality products and resulting
    in fewer customers visiting, and customers spending less at our
    properties, which has adversely affected our revenues. In
    addition, further declines in consumer and commercial spending
    may drive us, our franchisees and our competitors to reduce
    pricing, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit.
    We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the
    current disruptions in debt and equity capital markets and
    adverse economic conditions in the United States and other
    countries, which may continue to have an adverse effect on our
    business and results of operations, in part because we are
    dependent upon customer behavior and the impact on consumer
    spending that the continued market disruption may have.
    Moreover, reduced revenues as a result of a softening of the
    economy may also reduce our working capital and interfere with
    our long term business strategy.


 


    The global stock and credit markets have recently experienced
    significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity
    disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to
    fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective and
    outstanding debt financings to widen considerably. These
    circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the
    financial markets, making terms for certain financings
    materially less attractive, and in certain cases have resulted
    in the unavailability of certain types of financing. This
    volatility and illiquidity has negatively affected a broad range
    of mortgage and asset-backed and other fixed income securities.
    As a result, the market for fixed income securities has
    experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility,
    credit downgrade events, and



    
    31



Table of Contents




    increased defaults. Global equity markets have also been
    experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers
    exposed to the credit markets particularly affected. These
    factors and the continuing market disruption have an adverse
    effect on us, in part because we, like many public companies,
    from time to time raise capital in debt and equity capital
    markets including in the asset-backed securities markets.


 


    Our liquidity position may also be negatively affected if our
    vacation ownership contract receivables portfolios do not meet
    specified portfolio credit parameters. Our liquidity as it
    relates to our vacation ownership contract receivables
    securitization program could be adversely affected if we were to
    fail to renew or replace any of the facilities on their renewal
    dates or if a particular receivables pool were to fail to meet
    certain ratios, which could occur in certain instances if the
    default rates or other credit metrics of the underlying vacation
    ownership contract receivables deteriorate. Our ability to sell
    securities backed by our vacation ownership contract receivables
    depends on the continued ability and willingness of capital
    market participants to invest in such securities. Traditionally,
    we had offered financing to purchasers of vacation ownership
    interests and, similar to other companies that provide consumer
    financing, we securitized a majority of the receivables
    originated in connection with the sales of our vacation
    ownership interests. We initially placed the financed contracts
    into a revolving warehouse securitization facility generally
    within 30 to 90 days after origination. Many of the
    receivables were subsequently transferred from the warehouse
    securitization facility and placed into term securitization
    facilities. However, our ability to engage in these
    securitization transactions on favorable terms or at all has
    been adversely affected by the disruptions in the capital
    markets and other events, including actions by rating agencies
    and deteriorating investor expectations. It is possible that
    asset-backed securities issued pursuant to our securitization
    programs could in the future be downgraded by credit agencies.
    If a downgrade occurs, our ability to complete other
    securitization transactions on acceptable terms or at all could
    be jeopardized, and we could be forced to rely on other
    potentially more expensive and less attractive funding sources,
    to the extent available, which would decrease our profitability
    and may require us to adjust our business operations
    accordingly, including reducing or suspending our financing to
    purchasers of vacation ownership interests. In the fourth
    quarter of 2008, we implemented a significant and deliberate
    slowdown of our vacation ownership business and incurred a
    non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately
    $1.3 billion related to such reduction and to adverse
    market conditions generally. While this goodwill impairment
    charge has no impact on our cash balances, liquidity or cash
    flows, there can be no assurance that we will be able to
    effectively implement our new business strategies, and the
    failure to do so could negatively affect our results of
    operations, lead to further impairment charges and a further
    reduction in stockholders’ equity.


 


    In addition, continued uncertainty in the stock and credit
    markets may negatively affect our ability to access additional
    short-term and long-term financing, including future
    securitization transactions, on reasonable terms or at all,
    which would negatively impact our liquidity and financial
    condition. In addition, if one or more of the financial
    institutions that support our existing credit facilities fails,
    we may not be able to find a replacement, which would negatively
    impact our ability to borrow under the credit facilities. These
    disruptions in the financial markets also may adversely affect
    our credit rating and the market value of our common stock. If
    the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not
    be able to refinance, if necessary, our outstanding debt when
    due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.
    While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet
    our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt servicing
    and capital expenditures for the foreseeable future, if our
    operating results worsen significantly and our cash flow or
    capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates
    increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that
    could materially and adversely affect our results of operations
    and financial condition.


 



    Several
    of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and the
    cost of compliance or failure to comply with such regulations
    may adversely affect us.


 


    Our businesses are heavily regulated by the states or provinces
    (including local governments) and countries in which our
    operations are conducted. In addition, domestic and foreign
    federal, state and local regulators may enact new laws and
    regulations that may reduce our revenues, cause our expenses to
    increase
    and/or
    require us to modify substantially our business practices. If we
    are not in substantial compliance with applicable laws and
    regulations, including, among others, franchising, timeshare,
    lending, privacy, marketing and sales, telemarketing, licensing,
    labor, employment and immigration, gaming, environmental and
    regulations applicable under the Office of Foreign Asset Control
    and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, we may be subject to
    regulatory actions, fines, penalties and potential criminal
    prosecution.


 



    We are
    dependent on our senior management.


 


    We believe that our future growth depends, in part, on the
    continued services of our senior management team. Losing the
    services of any members of our senior management team could
    adversely affect our strategic and customer relationships and
    impede our ability to execute our growth strategies.



    
    32



Table of Contents





    Our
    inability to adequately protect our intellectual property could
    adversely affect our business.


 


    Our inability to adequately protect our trademarks, trade dress
    and other intellectual property rights could adversely affect
    our business. We generate, maintain, utilize and enforce a
    substantial portfolio of trademarks, trade dress and other
    intellectual property that are fundamental to the brands that we
    use in all of our businesses. There can be no assurance that the
    steps we take to protect our intellectual property will be
    adequate.


 



    Disruptions
    and other impairment of our information technologies and systems
    could adversely affect our business.


 


    Any disaster, disruption or other impairment in our technology
    capabilities could harm our business. Our businesses depend upon
    the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems,
    including technology and systems utilized for reservation
    systems, vacation exchange systems, property management,
    communications, procurement, member record databases, call
    centers, operation of our loyalty programs and administrative
    systems. The operation, maintenance and updating of these
    technologies and systems is dependent upon internal and
    third-party technologies, systems and services for which there
    is no assurance of uninterrupted availability or adequate
    protection.


 



    Failure
    to maintain the security of personally identifiable information
    could adversely affect us.


 


    In connection with our business we and our service providers
    collect and retain significant volumes of personally
    identifiable information, including credit card numbers of our
    customers and other personally identifiable information of our
    customers, stockholders and employees. Our customers,
    stockholders and employees expect that we will adequately
    protect their personal information, and the regulatory
    environment surrounding information security and privacy is
    increasingly demanding, both in the United States and other
    jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant theft, loss or
    fraudulent use of customer, stockholder, employee or Company
    data by cybercrime or otherwise could adversely impact our
    reputation and could result in significant costs, fines and
    litigation.


 



    The
    market price of our shares may fluctuate.


 


    The market price of our common stock may fluctuate depending
    upon many factors some of which may be beyond our control,
    including: our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other
    companies in our industry; actual or anticipated fluctuations in
    our operating results due to seasonality and other factors
    related to our business; changes in accounting principles or
    rules; announcements by us or our competitors of significant
    acquisitions or dispositions; the failure of securities analysts
    to cover our common stock; changes in earnings estimates by
    securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; the
    operating and stock price performance of other comparable
    companies; overall market fluctuations; and general economic
    conditions. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility
    that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a
    particular company. These broad market fluctuations may
    adversely affect the trading price of our common stock.


 



    Your
    percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in the
    future.


 


    Your percentage ownership in Wyndham Worldwide may be diluted in
    the future because of equity awards that we expect will be
    granted over time to our directors, officers and employees as
    well as due to the exercise of options issued. In addition, our
    Board may issue shares of our common and preferred stock, and
    debt securities convertible into shares of our common and
    preferred stock, up to certain regulatory thresholds without
    shareholder approval.


 



    Provisions
    in our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and under Delaware
    law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which
    could impact the trading price of our common stock.


 


    Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law
    contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover
    practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices
    or bids unacceptably expensive and to encourage prospective
    acquirors to negotiate with our Board rather than to attempt a
    hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: a
    Board of Directors that is divided into three classes with
    staggered terms; elimination of the right of our stockholders to
    act by written consent; rules regarding how stockholders may
    present proposals or nominate directors for election at
    stockholder meetings; the right of our Board to issue preferred
    stock without stockholder approval; and limitations on the right
    of stockholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes
    restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between
    us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock.



    
    33



Table of Contents





    We cannot
    provide assurance that we will continue to pay
    dividends.


 


    There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus
    under Delaware law to be able to continue to pay dividends. This
    may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses
    exceeding contemplated costs, funding of capital expenditures or
    increases in reserves. Our Board of Directors may also suspend
    the payment of dividends if the Board deems such action to be in
    the best interests of the Company or stockholders. If we do not
    pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for
    you to realize a gain on your investment in Wyndham Worldwide.
    This appreciation may not occur, and our stock may in fact
    depreciate in value.


 



    We are
    responsible for certain of Cendant’s contingent and other
    corporate liabilities.


 


    Under the separation agreement and the tax sharing agreement
    that we executed with Cendant (now Avis Budget Group) and former
    Cendant units, Realogy and Travelport, we and Realogy generally
    are responsible for 37.5% and 62.5%, respectively, of certain of
    Cendant’s contingent and other corporate liabilities and
    associated costs, including taxes imposed on Cendant and certain
    other subsidiaries and certain contingent and other corporate
    liabilities of Cendant
    and/or its
    subsidiaries to the extent incurred on or prior to
    August 23, 2006, including liabilities relating to certain
    of Cendant’s terminated or divested businesses, the
    Travelport sale, the Cendant litigation described in this report
    under “Cendant Litigation,” actions with respect to
    the separation plan and payments under certain contracts that
    were not allocated to any specific party in connection with the
    separation. In addition, each of us, Cendant, and Realogy may be
    responsible for 100% of certain of Cendant’s tax
    liabilities that will provide the responsible party with a
    future, offsetting tax benefit.


 


    If any party responsible for the liabilities described above
    were to default on its obligations, each non-defaulting party
    (including Avis Budget) would be required to pay an equal
    portion of the amounts in default. Accordingly, we could, under
    certain circumstances, be obligated to pay amounts in excess of
    our share of the assumed obligations related to such liabilities
    including associated costs. On or about April 10, 2007,
    Realogy Corporation was acquired by affiliates of Apollo
    Management VI, L.P. and its stock is no longer publicly traded.
    The acquisition does not negate Realogy’s obligation to
    satisfy 62.5% of such contingent and other corporate liabilities
    of Cendant or its subsidiaries pursuant to the term of the
    separation agreement. As a result of the acquisition, however,
    Realogy has greater debt obligations and its ability to satisfy
    its portion of these liabilities may be adversely impacted. In
    accordance with the terms of the separation agreement, Realogy
    posted a letter of credit in April 2007 for our benefit and
    Cendant to cover its estimated share of the assumed liabilities
    discussed above, although there can be no assurance that such
    letter of credit will be sufficient to cover Realogy’s
    actual obligations if and when they arise.


 


    As discussed below, the IRS has commenced an audit of
    Cendant’s taxable years 2003 through 2006, during which we
    were included in Cendant’s tax returns.


 


    The rules governing taxation are complex and subject to varying
    interpretations. Therefore, our tax accruals reflect a series of
    complex judgments about future events and rely heavily on
    estimates and assumptions. While we believe that the estimates
    and assumptions supporting our tax accruals are reasonable, tax
    audits and any related litigation could result in tax
    liabilities for us that are materially different than those
    reflected in our historical income tax provisions and recorded
    assets and liabilities. The result of an audit or litigation
    could have a material adverse effect on our income tax
    provision, net income,
    and/or cash
    flows in the period or periods to which such audit or litigation
    relates.


 


    As mentioned above, the IRS has commenced an audit of
    Cendant’s taxable years 2003 through 2006, during which we
    were included in Cendant’s tax returns. Our recorded tax
    liabilities in respect of such taxable years represent our
    current best estimates of the probable outcome with respect to
    certain tax positions taken by Cendant for which we would be
    responsible under the tax sharing agreement. As discussed above,
    however, the rules governing taxation are complex and subject to
    varying interpretation. There can be no assurance that the IRS
    will not propose adjustments to the returns for which we would
    be responsible under the tax sharing agreement or that any such
    proposed adjustments would not be material. Any determination by
    the IRS or a court that imposed tax liabilities on us under the
    tax sharing agreement in excess of our tax accruals could have a
    material adverse effect on our income tax provision, net income,
    and/or cash
    flows.


 



    We may be
    required to write-off a portion of the remaining goodwill value
    of companies we have acquired.


 


    Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our
    intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment at least
    annually or when events or changes in circumstances indicate the
    carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that may be
    considered a change in circumstances, indicating that the
    carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may
    not be recoverable, include a sustained decline in our stock
    price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow
    estimates, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be
    required to record a significant non-cash impairment charge in
    our financial statements during the period in which any



    
    34



Table of Contents




    impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is
    determined, negatively impacting our results of operations and
    stockholders’ equity.


 




    
    



    
    ITEM 1B