ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS        

        The following risks and uncertainties, together with other information set forth in this Form 10-K, should be
carefully considered by current and future investors in our securities. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or
that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. The occurrence of one or more of these risks or uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, our
financial condition, and the results of our operations, which in turn could negatively impact the value of our securities. 

 Oil, gas, and NGL prices fluctuate due to a number of uncontrollable factors, creating a component of uncertainty in our development plans and overall operations. Declines
in prices adversely affect our financial results and rate of growth in proved reserves and production.  

        Oil and gas markets are very volatile. We cannot predict future prices. The prices we receive for our production heavily influence our
revenue, profitability, access to capital and future rate of growth. The prices we receive depend on numerous factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in
global supply and demand for oil and gas, geopolitical instability, the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, the level of global oil and gas exploration and production
activity, weather conditions, technological advances affecting energy consumption, governmental regulations and taxes, and advancement of alternative fuels. 

        Our
proved oil and gas reserves and production volumes will decrease in quantity unless we successfully replace the reserves we produce with new discoveries or acquisitions. Accordingly,
for the foreseeable future, we expect to make substantial capital investments for the exploration and development of new
oil and gas reserves. Historically, we have paid for these types of capital expenditures with cash flow provided by our production operations. Low prices reduce the amount of oil and gas that we can
economically produce and may cause us to curtail, delay or defer certain exploration and development projects. Moreover, our ability to borrow under our bank credit facility and to raise additional
debt or equity capital to fund acquisitions may also be impacted. 

 If prices decrease, we may be required to take write-downs of the carrying values of our oil and gas properties and/or our goodwill.  


        Accounting rules require that we periodically review the carrying value of our oil and gas properties and goodwill for possible
impairment. Even moderate price declines in the future could cause us to incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period
taken. 

        As
of December 31, 2012, the calculated value of the ceiling limitation exceeded the carrying value of our oil and gas properties subject to the test and no impairment was
necessary. However, the amount of the excess has declined approximately 87% since December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2012, a decline of 3% or more in the value of the ceiling
limitation would have resulted in an impairment. If negative trends continue, we may incur impairment charges in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 

 Global financial markets may impact our business and financial condition.  

        Recurrence of a credit crisis or other turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial
condition. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise financing. This could have an impact on our flexibility to react to 

12




 

<A
HREF="#bg42901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

changing
economic and business conditions. Deteriorating economic conditions could have an impact on our lenders, purchasers of our oil and gas production and working interest owners in properties we
operate, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. 

 Failure to economically replace commercial quantities of new oil and gas reserves could negatively affect our financial results and future rate of growth.  


        In order to replace the reserves depleted by production and to maintain or grow our total proved reserves and overall production
levels, we must locate and develop new oil and gas reserves both in existing as well as new areas of development or acquire producing properties from others. This can require significant capital
expenditures and can impose reinvestment risk for our company, as we may not be able to continue to replace our reserves economically. While we may from time to time seek to acquire proved reserves,
our main business strategy is to grow through drilling. Without successful exploration and development, our reserves, production and revenues could decline rapidly, which would negatively impact our
results of operations. 

        Exploration
and development involves numerous risks, including new regulations or legislation and the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be discovered. It
can also be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but also from productive wells that do not produce sufficient reserves to return a profit or from declines in commodity prices. 

        Our
drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of several factors, including unforeseen poor drilling conditions, title problems, unexpected pressure or
irregularities in formations. In addition, equipment failures, accidents, adverse weather conditions, compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements, and the cost of, or shortages
or delays in the availability of, drilling and completion services may also negatively impact our drilling operations. 

 Our proved reserve estimates may be inaccurate and future net cash flows are uncertain.  

        Estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves (consisting of proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves) and associated future
net cash flow depend on a number of variables and assumptions. See Forward-Looking Statement in this report. Among others, changes in any of the following factors may cause actual results to vary
considerably from estimates:



•timing of development expenditures; 
•amount of required capital expenditures and associated economics; 
•recovery efficiencies, decline rates, drainage areas, and reservoir limits;  
•anticipated reservoir and production characteristics; and interpretations of geologic and geophysical data;  
•production rates, reservoir pressure, unexpected water encroachment, and other subsurface conditions;  
•future oil, gas and NGL prices; 
•effects of governmental regulation; 
•future operating costs; 
•future property, severance, excise and other taxes incidental to oil and gas operations;  
•workover and remediation costs; and 
•Federal and state income taxes. 

13




 

<A
HREF="#bg42901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        At
December 31, 2012, 20% of our total proved reserves are categorized as proved undeveloped. All of these proved undeveloped reserves are in the Cana-Woodford shale
play. 

        Our
proved oil and gas reserve estimates are prepared by Cimarex engineers in accordance with guidelines established by the SEC. DeGolyer and MacNaughton, independent petroleum
engineers, reviewed our reserve estimates for properties that comprised at least 80% of the discounted future net cash flows before income taxes, using a 10% discount rate, as of December 31,
2012. 

        The
cash flow amounts referred to in this report should not be construed as the current market value of our proved reserves. In accordance with SEC guidelines, the estimated discounted
net cash flow from proved reserves is based on the unweighted average of the previous twelve months' first day of the month prices and current costs as of the date of the estimate, whereas actual
future prices and costs may be materially different. 


 Hedging transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks.  

        To manage our exposure to price risk, we enter hedging agreements from time to time. We use commodity derivatives with respect to a
significant portion of our future production. For 2013, we have hedged approximately 35% of our anticipated oil production. The goal of these hedges is to lock in prices so as to limit volatility and
increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if oil and gas prices rise above the price established by the hedges. 


        In
certain circumstances, hedging transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss, including instances in which:



•the counterparties to our futures contracts fail to perform under the contracts;  
•a sudden unexpected event materially impacts oil and natural gas prices;  
•our production is less than expected; or 
•there is a widening of price basis differentials between delivery points for our production and the delivery point assumed
in the hedge arrangement. 


        Because
all of our derivative contracts are accounted for under mark-to-market accounting, we expect continued volatility in derivative gains or losses on our
income statement as changes occur in the relevant price indexes. 

 The adoption of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments as hedges against fluctuating commodity prices.  


        In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted, representing an extensive overhaul of the framework for regulation of U.S.
financial markets. The Dodd-Frank Act called for various regulatory agencies, including the SEC and the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), to establish regulations for
implementation of many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Act contains significant derivatives regulations, including requirements that certain transactions be cleared on
exchanges and that cash collateral (margin) be posted for such transactions. The Act provides for an exemption from the clearing and cash collateral requirements for commercial end-users,
such as Cimarex, and it includes a number of defined terms used in determining how this exemption applies to particular derivative transactions and the parties to those transactions. 


        At
this time we believe we have satisfied the requirements for the commercial end-user clearing exemption and continue to engage in derivative transactions. However, the CFTC
is still finalizing rules which will have an impact on our hedging counterparties and possibly end-users as well. The ultimate effect of these new rules and any additional regulations is
currently uncertain. New rules and regulations in this area may result in significant increased costs, reporting or disclosure obligations. 

14






<A
NAME="page_di42901_1_15"> 










































Table of Contents 

 We have been an early entrant into new or emerging resource development projects. As a result, our drilling results in these areas are uncertain. The value of our
undeveloped acreage may decline and we may incur impairment charges if drilling results are unsuccessful.  

        New or emerging oil and gas resource development projects have limited or no production history. Consequently, in those areas we may
not have past drilling results to help predict our future drilling results. Therefore, our cost of drilling, completing and operating wells in these areas may be higher than initially expected. The
value of our undeveloped acreage may decline if drilling results are unsuccessful. Furthermore, if drilling results are unsuccessful, we may be required to write down the carrying value of our
undeveloped acreage in new or emerging plays. 

        Unless
production is established during the primary term of certain of our undeveloped oil and gas leases, the leases will expire and we will lose our right to develop those properties. 

 Our business depends on oil and gas transportation facilities, some of which are owned by others.  

        Our oil and natural gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipeline systems and
transportation facilities. The lack of available capacity on these systems and facilities (or the lack of such systems and facilities in proximity to our wells) could result in the curtailment of
production or the delay or discontinuance of drilling plans. The lack of availability of these facilities for an extended period of time could negatively affect our revenues. 

        Federal
and state regulation of oil and natural gas production and transportation, adverse court rulings, tax and energy policies, changes in supply and demand, pipeline pressures,
damage to or destruction of pipelines and general economic conditions could adversely affect our ability to produce, gather and transport oil and natural gas. 

 Competition in our industry is intense and many of our competitors have greater financial and technological resources.  


        We operate in the competitive area of oil and gas exploration and production. Many of our competitors are large,
well-established companies that have larger operating staffs and greater capital resources than Cimarex. These companies may be willing to pay more for exploratory prospects and productive
oil and gas properties. They may also be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than our financial or human resources permit. 

 We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security.  

        Information system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security could have a material adverse effect on our ability to
conduct our business. We could experience system failures due to power or telecommunications failures, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunction or defects,
computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism or terrorism and similar acts. Such system failures could result in the unanticipated disruption of our operations, the processing of transactions and
the reporting of our financial results. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures, there can be no
assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operation results. 

 We are subject to complex laws and regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business.  


        Exploration, production and the sale of oil and gas are subject to extensive laws and regulations, including laws and regulations
protecting the environment and human health and safety. Federal and state regulatory agencies frequently require permitting and impose conditions on our activities. During the 

15




 

<A
HREF="#bg42901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

permitting
process, these regulatory authorities often exercise considerable discretion in both the timing and ultimate scope of the permits. The requirements or conditions imposed by these
authorities can be costly, possibly resulting in delays in the commencement of our operations. Further, if the required permits are not issued or if the current requirements become more burdensome,
costs could materially increase and operations could be significantly restricted. 

        Failing
to comply with any of the applicable laws and regulations could result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal
penalties. Such liabilities and costs could have a material adverse effect on both our financial condition and operations. 


 Environmental matters and costs can be significant.  

        As an owner, lessee or operator of oil and gas properties, we are subject to various complex and constantly evolving environmental laws
and regulations. Our operations inherently create the risk of environmental liability to the government and private parties stemming from our use, generation, handling and disposal of water, waste
materials, petroleum hydrocarbons or other substances into the air, soil or water. 

        Liabilities
under environmental law can be joint and several and may in some cases be imposed regardless of fault on our part. We could be held liable for remediating facilities that
were previously owned or operated by others. Since these environmental risks generally are not fully insurable and can result in substantial costs, such liabilities could have a material adverse
effect on both our financial condition and operations. 

 Our hydraulic fracturing activities are subject to risks that could negatively impact our operations and profitability.  

        We use hydraulic fracturing for almost all of our wells. Hydraulic fracturing is a process that involves pumping fluid and proppant at
high pressure into a hydrocarbon bearing formation to create and hold open fractures. Those fractures enable gas or oil to move through the formation's pores to the well bore. The fluid used in this
process is primarily water. In developing plays where hydraulic fracturing is necessary for the successful development, the demand for water may exceed the supply. A lack of readily available water or
a significant increase in the cost of water could cause delays or increased completion costs. 

        In
addition to water, hydraulic fracturing fluid contains chemicals or additives designed to optimize production. Certain states are requiring companies to disclose the components of
this fluid. Additional states, as well as the Federal government, may follow with similar or conflicting requirements or may restrict the use of certain additives, resulting in more costly or less
effective development of wells. 

        Efforts
to regulate hydraulic fracturing by local municipalities, states and at the federal level are increasing. Many new regulations are being considered, including limiting water
withdrawals and usage, water disposition, restricting which additives may be used, implementing state-wide hydraulic fracturing moratoriums and temporary or permanent bans in certain
environmentally sensitive areas. Public sentiment against hydraulic fracturing and shale gas production has become more vocal, which could render permitting and compliance requirements to become more
stringent. Consequences of these actions could potentially increase our capital, compliance and operating costs significantly, as well as delay or halt our ability to develop our oil and gas reserves. 


        Any
of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 

 The adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emission of "greenhouse gases" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil
and natural gas we produce.  

        Studies have suggested that emission of certain gases, commonly referred to as "greenhouse gases," may be impacting the earth's
climate. Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a 

16




 

<A
HREF="#bg42901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

by-product
of the burning of oil and natural gas, are examples of greenhouse gases. The U.S. Congress and various states have been evaluating, and in some cases implementing,
climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases. In December 2009, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued findings that methane and
carbon dioxide present a health and safety issue such that they should be regulated under the Clean Air Act. Restrictions resulting from federal or state legislation or regulations may have an effect
on our ability to produce oil and gas, as well as the demand for our products. Such changes may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture and use of carbon
dioxide that could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. 

 Our limited ability to influence operations and associated costs on non-operated properties could result in economic losses that are partially beyond our
control.  

        Other companies operate approximately 20% of our net production. Our success in properties operated by others depends upon a number of
factors outside of our control. These factors include timing and amount of capital expenditures, the operator's expertise and financial resources, approval of other participants in drilling wells,
selection of technology and maintenance of safety and environmental standards. Our dependence on the operator and other working interest owners for these projects could prevent the realization of our
targeted returns on capital in drilling or acquisition activities. 

 Our business involves many operating risks that may result in substantial losses for which insurance may be unavailable or inadequate.  

        Our operations are subject to hazards and risks inherent in drilling for oil and gas, such as fires, natural disasters, explosions,
formations with abnormal pressures, casing collapses, uncontrollable flows of underground gas, blowouts, surface cratering, pipeline ruptures or cement failures. Other such risks include theft,
vandalism, environmental hazards such as natural gas leaks, oil spills and discharges of toxic gases. Any of these risks can cause substantial losses resulting
from:



•injury or loss of life; 
•damage to, loss of or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment;  
•pollution and other environmental damages; 
•regulatory investigations and penalties; 
•damage to our reputation; 
•suspension of our operations; and 
•costs related to repair and remediation. 


In
addition, our liability for environmental hazards may include conditions created by the previous owners of properties that we purchase or lease. 


        We
maintain insurance coverage against some, but not all, potential losses. We do not believe that insurance coverage for all environmental damages that could occur is available at a
reasonable cost. Losses could occur for uninsurable or uninsured risks, or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could
harm our financial condition and results of operation. 

 We may not be able to generate enough cash flow to meet our debt obligations.  

        At December 31, 2012, our long-term debt consisted of $750 million of 5.875% senior notes. In addition to
interest expense and principal on our
long-term debt, we have demands on our cash resources including, among others, operating expenses and capital expenditures. 

17




 

<A
HREF="#bg42901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

        Our
ability to pay the principal and interest on our long-term debt and to satisfy our other liabilities will depend upon future performance and our ability to repay or
refinance our debt as it becomes due. Our future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by economic and capital market conditions, results of operations and other factors,
many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations may also be impacted by changes in prevailing interest rates, as borrowing under our existing senior revolving
credit facility bears interest at floating rates. 

        Our
business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations. Without sufficient cash flow, there may not be adequate future sources of capital to enable us to service our
indebtedness; or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operating costs, we will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may
include:



•reducing or delaying capital expenditures; 
•seeking additional debt financing or equity capital; 
•selling non-strategic assets; or 
•restructuring or refinancing debt. 


        We
may be unable to complete any such strategies on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our
indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

 The instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business.  

        The indenture governing our senior notes and credit agreement contain various restrictive covenants that may limit management's
discretion in certain respects. In particular, these agreements limit Cimarex and its subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:



•pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt;  
•make loans to others; 
•make investments; 
•incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; 
•create certain liens; 
•sell assets; 
•enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us;  
•consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of the assets of us and our restricted subsidiaries taken as a
whole; 
•engage in transactions with affiliates; 
•enter into hedging contracts; 
•create unrestricted subsidiaries; and 
•enter into sale and leaseback transactions. 


        In
addition, our revolving credit agreement requires us to maintain a debt to EBITDA ratio (as defined in the credit agreement) of less than 3.5 to 1 and a current ratio (defined to
include undrawn 

18




 

<A
HREF="#bg42901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

borrowings)
of greater than 1 to 1. Also, the indenture under which we issued our senior unsecured notes restricts us from incurring additional indebtedness, subject to certain exceptions, unless our
fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the indenture) is at least 2.25 to 1. The additional indebtedness limitation does not prohibit us from borrowing under our revolving credit facility. See
Note 5, Long-term Debt, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 

        If
we fail to comply with the restrictions in the indenture governing our senior notes or the agreement governing our credit facility or any other subsequent financing agreements, a
default may allow the creditors, if the agreements so provide, to accelerate the related indebtedness as well as any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision
applies. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to make available further funds. 

 Our acquisition activities may not be successful, which may hinder our replacement of reserves and adversely affect our results of operations.  

        The successful acquisition of producing properties requires an assessment of several factors,
including:



•geological risks and recoverable reserves; 
•future oil and gas prices and their appropriate differentials; 
•operating costs; and 
•potential environmental risks and other liabilities. 


        The
accuracy of these assessments is inherently uncertain. In connection with these assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties that we believe to be generally consistent
with industry practices. Our review will not reveal all existing or potential problems nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to fully assess their deficiencies and
capabilities. Inspections will not likely be performed on every well or facility, and structural and environmental problems are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. Even
when problems are identified, the seller may be unwilling or unable to provide effective contractual protection against all or part of the problems. 

 Competition for experienced, technical personnel may negatively impact our operations.  

        Our exploratory and development drilling success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced professional
personnel. The loss of any key executives or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As we continue to grow our asset base and the scope of our operations, our
future profitability will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly individuals with a strong background in geology, geophysics, engineering and operations. 

 We are involved in various legal proceedings, the outcome of which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity.  

        In January 2009, the Tulsa County District Court issued a judgment totaling $119.6 million in the "Krug v. Helmerich &
Payne, Inc." case. See Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies in this report for more detailed information. 


        Because
this case is subject to further appeal and despite the fact that the ultimate outcome currently is unknown, we have accrued for the District Court's original judgment in our
financial statements. If the District Court's original judgment is ultimately affirmed in its entirety, the $119.6 million plus the then determined amount of post-judgment interest
and costs would become payable. This could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. 

        In
the normal course of business, we have other various lawsuits and related disputed claims. Although we currently believe the resolution of these lawsuits and claims, individually or
in the aggregate, 

19




 

<A
HREF="#bg42901a_main_toc">Table of Contents

would
not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, our assessment of our current litigation and other legal proceedings could change in light of the
discovery of facts with respect to legal actions or other proceedings pending against us not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which are not in accord
with our evaluation of the possible liability or outcome of such litigation or proceedings. Therefore, there can be no assurance that outcomes of future legal proceedings would not have an adverse
effect on our liquidity and capital resources. 

 Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to natural gas and oil exploration and development may be eliminated, as a result of future
legislation.  

        The Fiscal Year 2013 Budget proposed by President Obama recommends elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives
currently available to oil and natural gas exploration and production companies. Legislation has been introduced in Congress which would implement many of these proposals. These changes include, but
are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development
costs; and (iii) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear, however, whether any such changes will be enacted or how soon such
changes could be effective. 

        The
passage of this legislation or any other similar change in U.S. federal income tax law could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to
natural gas and oil exploration and development, and any such change could have an adverse effect on our financial position.  


<A
NAME="di42901_item_1b._unresolved_staff_comments"> 
    ITEM 1B