Item 1A — Risk Factors

Risks Associated with Our Business

Our profitability
depends in part on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to recover their
costs from their customers and there may be changes in circumstances or in the
regulatory environment that impair the ability of our utility subsidiaries to
recover costs from their customers.

We are subject
to comprehensive regulation by several federal and state utility regulatory
agencies. The utility commissions in the states where our utility subsidiaries
operate regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and
construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that we can charge
customers.  The FERC has jurisdiction,
among other things, over wholesale rates for electric transmission service and
the sale of electric energy in interstate commerce.


 27










The
profitability of our utility operations is dependent on our ability to recover
costs related to providing energy and utility services to our customers.  Our utility subsidiaries currently provide
service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  These rates are generally regulated based on
an analysis of the utility’s expenses incurred in a test year.  Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to
charge may or may not match its expenses at any given time.  While rate regulation is premised on
providing a reasonable opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on
invested capital, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory
commission will judge all the costs of our utility subsidiaries to have been
prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined
will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs.   Rising fuel costs could increase the risk
that our utility subsidiaries will not be able to fully recover their
under-recovered fuel costs from their customers.  Furthermore, there could be changes in the
regulatory environment that would impair the ability of our utility
subsidiaries to recover costs historically collected from their customers.  If all of the costs of our utility subsidiaries
are not recovered through customer rates, they could incur financial operating
losses, which, over the long term, could jeopardize their ability to pay us
dividends and our ability to meet our financial obligations.

We are unable to predict the impact on our operating results from the
future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations
or the imposition of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our
results of operations and hence could materially and adversely affect our
ability to meet our financial obligations, including paying dividends on our
common stock.

Any reductions
in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs and the cost of
maintaining certain contractual relationships.

We cannot be assured that any of our current ratings or our
subsidiaries’ ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or
that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if,
in its judgment, circumstances in the future so warrant.  In addition, our credit ratings may change as
a result of the differing methodologies or change in the methodologies used by
the various rating agencies.  For
example, Standard and Poor’s calculates an imputed debt associated with
capacity payments from purchased power contracts.   An increase in the overall level of capacity
payments would increase the amount of imputed debt, based on Standard and
Poor’s methodology.  Therefore, Xcel
Energy and its subsidiaries credit ratings could be adversely affected based on
the level of capacity payments associated with purchased power contracts or
changes in how imputed debt is determined. 
Any downgrade could lead to higher borrowing costs.

We are subject
to commodity risks and other risks associated with energy markets.

We engage in
wholesale sales and purchases of electric capacity, energy and energy-related
products and are subject to market supply and commodity price risk.  Commodity price changes can affect the value
of our commodity trading derivatives.  We
mark certain derivatives to estimated fair market value on a daily basis
(mark-to-market accounting), which may cause earnings variability. We utilize
quoted market prices to the maximum extent possible in determining the value of
these derivative commodity instruments. 
For positions for which market prices are not available, we utilize
models based on forward price curves. These models incorporate estimates and
assumptions as to a variety of factors such as pricing relationships between
various energy commodities and geographic locations. Actual experience can vary
significantly from these estimates and assumptions and significant changes from
our assumptions could cause significant earnings variability.

If we encounter market supply shortages, we may be unable to fulfill
contractual obligations to our retail, wholesale and other customers at
previously authorized or anticipated costs. 
Any such supply shortages could cause us to seek alternative supply
services at potentially higher costs or suffer increased liability for
unfulfilled contractual obligations.  Any
significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales
commitments would have a negative impact on our cash flows and could
potentially result in economic losses.

We are subject
to interest rate risk.

If interest rates increase, we may incur increased interest expense on
variable interest debt or short-term borrowings, which could have an adverse
impact on our operating results.

We are subject
to credit risks.

Credit risk includes the risk that counterparties that owe us money or
product will breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these
arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative
arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected
and we could incur losses.


 28 






Our
subsidiary, PSCo, has received a notice from the IRS proposing to disallow
certain interest expense deductions that PSCo claimed under a COLI policy.
Should the IRS ultimately prevail on this issue, our liquidity position and
financial results could be materially adversely affected.

PSCo’s wholly
owned subsidiary PSR Investments, Inc. (PSRI) owns and manages permanent life
insurance policies on some of PSCo’s employees, known as COLI. At various
times, borrowings have been made against the cash values of these COLI policies
and deductions taken on the interest expense on these borrowings. The IRS has
challenged the deductibility of such interest expense deductions and has
disallowed the deductions taken in tax years 1993 through 2003.

In April 2004,
Xcel Energy filed a lawsuit against the U.S. government in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Minnesota to establish its right to deduct the
interest expense that had accrued during tax years 1993 and 1994 on policy
loans related to the COLI policies.

After Xcel
Energy filed this suit, the IRS sent two statutory notices of deficiency of
tax, penalty and interest for 1995 through 1999. Xcel Energy has filed U.S. Tax
Court petitions challenging those notices. Xcel Energy anticipates the dispute
relating to its interest expense deductions will be resolved in the refund suit
that is pending in the Minnesota Federal District Court and the Tax Court
petitions will be held in abeyance pending the outcome of the refund
litigation. In the third quarter of 2006, Xcel Energy also received a statutory
notice of deficiency from the IRS for tax years 2000 through 2002 and timely
filed a Tax Court petition challenging the denial of the COLI interest expense
deductions for those years.

On Oct. 12,
2005, the district court denied Xcel Energy’s motion for summary judgment on
the grounds that there were disputed issues of material fact that required a
trial for resolution. At the same time, the district court denied the
government’s motion for summary judgment that was based on its contention that
PSCo had lacked an insurable interest in the lives of the employees insured
under the COLI policies. However, the district court granted Xcel Energy’s
motion for partial summary judgment on the grounds that PSCo did have the
requisite insurable interest.

On May 5,
2006, Xcel Energy filed a second motion for summary judgment. On Aug. 18, 2006,
the U.S. government filed a second motion for summary judgment.  On Feb. 14, 2007, the Magistrate Judge issued
his Report and Recommendation (R&R) to the Judge concerning both motions.
In his R&R the Magistrate Judge recommends both motions be denied due to
fact issues in dispute. Both parties will have an opportunity to file
objections by March 5, 2007 to the Magistrate Judge’s recommendations. The
Judge will then have broad authority to, among other things, accept or reject
the recommendations in whole or in part. 
If both sides’ motions are ultimately denied, a trial is set to begin on
July 24, 2007.

Xcel Energy
believes that the tax deduction for interest expense on the COLI policy loans
is in full compliance with the tax law. Accordingly, PSRI has not recorded any
provision for income tax or related interest or penalties, and has continued to
take deductions for interest expense on policy loans on its income tax returns
for subsequent years. The litigation could require several years to reach final
resolution. Defense of Xcel Energy’s position may require significant cash
outlays, which may or may not be recoverable in a court proceeding. The
ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain and could have a material
adverse effect on Xcel Energy’s financial position, results of operations and
cash flows.

Should the IRS ultimately prevail on this issue, tax and interest
payable through Dec. 31, 2006, would reduce earnings by an estimated $421
million. Xcel Energy has received formal notification that the IRS will seek
penalties. If penalties (plus associated interest) also are included, the total
exposure through Dec. 31, 2006, is approximately $499 million. In addition,
Xcel Energy’s annual earnings for 2007 would be reduced by approximately $49
million, after tax, or 11 cents per share, if COLI interest expense deductions
were no longer available.

We are subject
to environmental laws and regulations, compliance with which could be difficult
and costly.

We are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations that
affect many aspects of our past, present and future operations, including air
emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges and the management of wastes
and hazardous substances.  These laws and
regulations generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of
environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other
approvals.  Environmental laws and
regulations can also require us to restrict or limit the output of certain facilities
or the use of certain fuels, to install pollution control equipment at our
facilities, clean up spills and correct environmental hazards and other
contamination.  Both public officials and
private individuals may seek to enforce the applicable environmental laws and
regulations against us.  We must pay all
or a portion of the cost to remediate (i.e. clean-up) sites where our past
activities, or the activities of certain other parties, caused environmental contamination.  At Dec. 31, 2006, these sites included:

·       the
sites of former manufactured gas plants operated by our subsidiaries or
predecessors; and


 29 






·       third
party sites, such as landfills, to which we are alleged to be a potentially
responsible party that sent hazardous materials and wastes.

In addition,
existing environmental laws or regulations may be revised, new laws or
regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become
applicable to us and we may incur additional unanticipated obligations or
liabilities under existing environmental laws and regulations.  Revised or additional laws or regulations
which result in increased compliance costs or additional operating
restrictions, or currently unanticipated costs or restrictions under existing
laws or regulations, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from
our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations.

For further discussion see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Our
subsidiary, NSP-Minnesota, is subject to the risks of nuclear generation.

NSP-Minnesota’s
two nuclear stations, Prairie Island and Monticello, subject it to the risks of
nuclear generation, which include:

·       the
risks associated with storage, handling and disposal of radioactive materials
and the current lack of a long-term disposal solution for radioactive
materials;

·       limitations
on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses
that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and

·       uncertainties
with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning
nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives.

The NRC has
authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation
of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has
the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its
assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.
Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate
substantial capital expenditures at NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear plants. 

If an incident did occur, it could have a material adverse effect on
our results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, the
non-compliance of other nuclear facilities operators with applicable
regulations or the occurrence of a serious nuclear incident at other facilities
could result in increased regulation of the industry as a whole, which could
then increase NSP-Minnesota’s compliance costs and impact the results of
operations of its facilities.

Economic
conditions could negatively impact our business.

Our operations are affected by local and national economic
conditions.  The consequences of a
prolonged recession may include a lower level of economic activity and
uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets.  A lower level of economic activity might
result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our
revenues and future growth.  Instability
in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may
affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital.

Our operations
could be impacted by war, acts of terrorism or threats of terrorism.

The conflict
in Iraq and any other military strikes or sustained military campaign may
affect our operations in unpredictable ways and may cause disruptions of fuel
supplies and markets, particularly with respect to natural gas and purchased
energy.  War and the possibility of
further war may have an adverse impact on the economy in general. 

Our generation
plants, fuel storage facilities, transmission and distribution facilities and
information systems may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt
our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products. Any
such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and
significant additional costs to repair and insure our assets, which could have
a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  The potential for terrorism has subjected our
operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on our
business.  While we have already incurred
increased costs for security and capital expenditures in response to these risks,
we may experience additional capital and operating costs to implement security
for our plants, including our nuclear power plants under the NRC’s design basis
threat requirements, such as additional physical plant security and additional
security personnel. 


 30 






The insurance industry has also been affected by these events and the
availability of insurance covering risks we and our competitors typically
insure against may decrease.  In
addition, the insurance we are able to obtain may have higher deductibles,
higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms.

A disruption
or black-out of the regional electric transmission grid could negatively impact
our business.

Because our generation and transmission systems are part of an
interconnected regional grid, we face the risk of possible loss of business due
to a disruption or black-out caused by an event (severe storm, generator or
transmission facility outage) on a neighboring system or the actions of a
neighboring utility, similar to the Aug. 14, 2003 black-out in portions of the
eastern U.S. and Canada.  Any such
disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant
additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material adverse impact
on our financial condition and results of operations.

Reduced coal
availability could negatively impact our business.

Our coal generation portfolio is heavily dependent on coal supplies
located in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming. 
Approximately 85 percent of our annual coal requirement comes from this
area. Coal generation comprises approximately 60 percent to 85 percent of our
annual generation for the operating utilities. 
We have recently experienced disruptions in the delivery of Powder River
Basin coal to our facilities and such disruptions could occur again in the
future.  Coal delivery may be subject to
short-term interruptions or reductions due to various factors, including
transportation problems, weather and availability of equipment.  Failure or delay by our suppliers of coal
deliveries could disrupt our ability to deliver electricity and require us to
incur additional expenses to meet the needs of our customers.  In addition, as agreements expire with our
suppliers, we may not be able to enter into new agreements for coal delivery on
equivalent terms.

Rising energy
prices could negatively impact our business.

Higher fuel costs could significantly impact our results of operations,
if requests for recovery are unsuccessful. 
In addition, the higher fuel costs could reduce customer demand or
increase bad debt expense, which could also have a material impact on our
results of operations.  Delays in the
timing of the collection of fuel cost recoveries as compared with expenditures
for fuel purchases could have an impact on our cash flows.  We are unable to predict the future prices or
the ultimate impact of such prices on our results of operations or cash flows.

Our operating
results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely
affected by milder weather.

Our electric and natural gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses
and weather patterns can have a material impact on our operating performance.
Demand for electricity is often greater in the summer and winter months
associated with cooling and heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for
residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily
upon weather patterns throughout our service territory, and a significant
amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters
related to the heating season. Accordingly, our operations have historically
generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the
winter and cooler in the summer. Unusually mild winters and summers could have
an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

Our natural
gas distribution activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents
and other operating risks and costs.

There are
inherent in our natural gas distribution activities a variety of hazards and
operating risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems that could
cause substantial financial losses.  In
addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to
property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial
losses to us.  In accordance with
customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all,
of these risks and losses.

The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance
could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of
operations.  For our distribution lines
located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business
centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damages
resulting from these risks is greater.

Increase risks
of regulatory penalties

The Energy Act increased FERC’s civil penalty authority for violation
of FERC statutes, rules and orders.  FERC
can now impose penalties of $1 million per violation per day.  Effective June 1, 2007, approximately 80
electric reliability standards that were historically subject to voluntary
compliance will become mandatory and subject to potential civil penalties for 


 31 






violations.  If a serious
reliability incident did occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our
operations or financial results.

Increasing
costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans and other
employee-related benefits may adversely affect our results of operations,
financial position, or liquidity.

We have defined benefit and postretirement plans that cover
substantially all of our employees. 
Assumptions related to future costs, return on investments, interest
rates and other actuarial assumptions have a significant impact on our funding
requirements related to these plans.  These
estimates and assumptions may change based on actual stock market performance,
changes in interest rates and any changes in governmental regulations.  In addition, the Pension Protection Act of
2006 changed the minimum funding requirements for defined benefit pension plans
beginning in 2008.  Therefore, our
funding requirements may change and our contributions could be required in the
future.

Increasing
costs associated with health care plans may adversely affect our results of
operations, financial position or liquidity.

The costs of providing health care benefits to our employees and
retirees have increased substantially in recent years.  We believe that our employee benefit costs,
including costs related to health care plans for our employees and former
employees, will continue to rise.  The
increasing costs and funding requirements associated with our health care plans
may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position, or
liquidity.  

Risks
Associated with Our Holding Company Structure

We must rely
on cash from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments.

We are a
holding company and thus our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary
assets. Substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries.
Consequently, our operating cash flow and our ability to service our
indebtedness and pay dividends, depends upon the operating cash flow of our
subsidiaries and the payment of funds by them to us in the form of dividends.
Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any
amounts due pursuant to our obligations or to make any funds available for that
purpose or for dividends on our common stock, whether by dividends or
otherwise. In addition, each subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to us depends
on any statutory and/or contractual restrictions that may be applicable to such
subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain minimum levels of equity
ratios, working capital or other assets. 
Our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility
commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of
the utility customers are being met. 

If our utility subsidiaries were to cease making dividend payments, it
could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and
preferred stock or otherwise meet our financial obligations.

Certain
provisions of law, as well as provisions in our bylaws and shareholder rights
plan, may make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us, even
though some shareholders might consider this favorable.

We are a Minnesota corporation and certain anti-takeover provisions of
Minnesota law apply to us and create various impediments to the acquisition of
control of us or to the consummation of certain business combinations with
us.  In addition, our shareholder rights
plan contains provisions, which may make it more difficult to effect certain
business combinations with us without the approval of our board of directors.  Finally, certain federal and state utility
regulatory statutes may also make it difficult for another party to acquire a
controlling interest in us.  These
provisions of law and of our corporate documents, individually or in the
aggregate, could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual shareholders
might deem to be in their best interests or in which shareholders would receive
a premium for their shares over current prices.

Item 1B