Item 1A — Risk Factors




Like other companies in our industry, Xcel Energy is subject to a variety of risks, many of which are beyond our control.  Important risks that may adversely affect the business, financial condition, and results of operations are further described below.  These risks should be carefully considered together with the other information set forth in this report and in future reports that Xcel Energy files with the SEC.




There may be further risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or are not currently believed to be material that may adversely affect our performance or financial condition in the future.

 

Oversight of Risk and Related Processes




The goal of Xcel Energy’s risk management process is to understand, manage and, when possible, mitigate material risk.  Management is responsible for identifying and managing risks, while the Board of Directors oversees and holds management accountable.  As described more fully below, Xcel Energy is faced with a number of different types of risk.  Many of these risks are cross-cutting risks such that these risks are discussed and managed across business areas and coordinated by Xcel Energy’s senior management.  Our risk management process has three parts: identification and analysis, management and mitigation and communication and disclosure.




Management identifies and analyzes risks to determine materiality and other attributes such as timing, probability and controllability.  Management broadly considers our business, the utility industry, the domestic and global economy and the environment to identify risks.  Identification and analysis occurs formally through a key risk assessment process conducted by senior management, the financial disclosure process, the hazard risk management process and internal auditing and compliance with financial and operational controls.  Management also identifies and analyzes risk through its business planning process and development of goals and key performance indicators, which include risk identification to determine barriers to implementing Xcel Energy’s strategy.  At the same time, the business planning process identifies areas in which there is a potential for a business area to take inappropriate risk to meet goals and determines how to prevent inappropriate risk-taking.




Management seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in the implementation of Xcel Energy’s strategy.  The process for risk mitigation includes adherence to our code of conduct and other compliance policies, operation of formal risk management structures and groups, and overall business management.  At a threshold level, Xcel Energy has developed a robust compliance program and promotes a culture of compliance, which further mitigates risk.  Building on this culture of compliance, Xcel Energy manages and mitigates risks through operation of formal risk management structures and groups, including management councils, risk committees and the services of corporate areas such as internal audit, the corporate controller and legal services.  While Xcel Energy has developed a number of formal structures for risk management, many material risks affect the business as a whole and are managed across business areas.

 



  



35







Table of Contents



 

Management also communicates with the Board and key stakeholders regarding risk.  Management provides information to the Board in presentations and communications over the course of the year.  Senior management presents an assessment of key risks to the Board annually.  The presentation of the key risks and the discussion provides the Board with information on the risks management believes are material, including the earnings impact, timing, likelihood and controllability.  Based on this presentation, the Board reviews risks at an enterprise level and confirms risk management and mitigation are included in Xcel Energy’s strategy.  The guidelines on corporate governance and committee charters define the scope of review and inquiry for the Board and committees.  The standing committees also oversee risk management as part of their charters.  Each committee has responsibility for overseeing aspects of risk and Xcel Energy’s management and mitigation of the risk.  The Board has overall responsibility for risk oversight.  As described above, the Board reviews the key risk assessment process presented by senior management.  This key risk assessment analyzes the most likely areas of future risk to Xcel Energy.  The Board also reviews the performance and annual goals of each business area.  This review, when combined with the oversight of specific risks by the committees, allows the Board to confirm risk is considered in the development of goals and that risk has been adequately considered and mitigated in the execution of corporate strategy.  The presentation of the assessment of key risks also provides the basis for the discussion of risk in our public filings and securities disclosures.




Risks Associated with Our Business




Environmental Risks




We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, with which compliance could be difficult and costly.




We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that affect many aspects of our past, present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges and the generation, transport and disposal of solid wastes and hazardous substances.  These laws and regulations require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental registrations including those for protected natural and cultural resources (such as wetlands, endangered species and other protected wildlife, and archeological and historical resources), licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals.  Environmental laws and regulations can also require us to restrict or limit the output of certain facilities or the use of certain fuels, to install pollution control equipment at our facilities, clean up spills and correct environmental hazards and other contamination.  Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce the applicable environmental laws and regulations against us.  We may be required to pay all or a portion of the cost to remediate (i.e., cleanup) sites where our past activities, or the activities of certain other parties, caused environmental contamination.  At Dec. 31, 2012, these sites included:








  


·


Sites of former MGPs operated by our subsidiaries, predecessors, or other entities; and








  


·


Third party sites, such as landfills, for which we are alleged to be a PRP that sent hazardous materials and wastes.







We are also subject to mandates to provide customers with clean energy, renewable energy and energy conservation offerings.  These mandates are designed in part to mitigate the potential environmental impacts of utility operations.  Failure to meet the requirements of these mandates may result in fines or penalties, which could have a material effect on our results of operations.  If our regulators do not allow us to recover all or a part of the cost of capital investment or the O&M costs incurred to comply with the mandates, it could have a material effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.




In addition, existing environmental laws or regulations may be revised, and new laws or regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to us, including but not limited to, regulation of mercury, NOx, SO2, CO2, particulates, coal ash and cooling water intake systems.  We may also incur additional unanticipated obligations or liabilities under existing environmental laws and regulations.




We are subject to physical and financial risks associated with climate change.




There is a growing consensus that emissions of GHGs are linked to global climate change.  Climate change creates physical and financial risk.  Physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level and changes in weather conditions, such as changes in precipitation and extreme weather events.  We do not serve any coastal communities so the possibility of sea level rises does not directly affect us or our customers.




Our customers’ energy needs vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity.  For residential customers, heating and cooling represent their largest energy use.  To the extent weather conditions are affected by climate change, customers’ energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of the changes.

 



  



36







Table of Contents



 

Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in additional generating assets, transmission and other infrastructure to serve increased load.  Decreased energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition, through decreased revenues.  Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stress, including service interruptions.  Weather conditions outside of our service territory could also have an impact on our revenues.  We buy and sell electricity depending upon system needs and market opportunities.  Extreme weather conditions creating high energy demand on our own and/or other systems may raise electricity prices as we buy short-term energy to serve our own system, which would increase the cost of energy we provide to our customers.




Severe weather impacts our service territories, primarily when thunderstorms, tornadoes and snow or ice storms occur.  To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could increase our cost of providing service.  Changes in precipitation resulting in droughts or water shortages could adversely affect our operations, principally our fossil generating units.  A negative impact to water supplies due to long-term drought conditions could adversely impact our ability to provide electricity to customers, as well as increase the price they pay for energy.  We may not recover all costs related to mitigating these physical and financial risks.




To the extent climate change impacts a region’s economic health, it may also impact our revenues.  Our financial performance is tied to the health of the regional economies we serve.  The price of energy, as a factor in a region’s cost of living as well as an important input into the cost of goods and services, has an impact on the economic health of our communities.  The cost of additional regulatory requirements, such as a tax on GHGs or additional environmental regulation could impact the availability of goods and prices charged by our suppliers which would normally be borne by consumers through higher prices for energy and purchased goods.  To the extent financial markets view climate change and emissions of GHGs as a financial risk, this could negatively affect our ability to access capital markets or cause us to receive less than ideal terms and conditions.




Financial Risks




Our profitability depends in part on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to recover their costs from their customers and there may be changes in circumstances or in the regulatory environment that impair the ability of our utility subsidiaries to recover costs from their customers.




We are subject to comprehensive regulation by federal and state utility regulatory agencies.  The utility commissions in the states where we operate regulate many aspects of our utility operations, including siting and construction of facilities, customer service and the rates that we can charge customers.  The FERC has jurisdiction, among other things, over wholesale rates for electric transmission service, the sale of electric energy in interstate commerce and certain natural gas transactions in interstate commerce.




The profitability of our utility operations is dependent on our ability to recover the costs of providing energy and utility services to our customers and earn a return on our capital investment in our utility operations.  Our utility subsidiaries currently provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  These rates are generally regulated and based on an analysis of the utility’s costs incurred in a test year.  Our utility subsidiaries are subject to both future and historical test years depending upon the regulatory mechanisms approved in each jurisdiction.  Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to charge may or may not match its costs at any given time.  While rate regulation is premised on providing an opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, in a continued low interest rate environment there could be pressure on ROE.  There can also be no assurance that the applicable regulatory commission will judge all the costs of our utility subsidiaries to have been prudently incurred or that the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in rates that will produce full recovery of such costs.  Rising fuel costs could increase the risk that our utility subsidiaries will not be able to fully recover their fuel costs from their customers.  Furthermore, there could be changes in the regulatory environment that would impair the ability of our utility subsidiaries to recover costs historically collected from their customers.




Management currently believes these prudently incurred costs are recoverable given the existing regulatory mechanisms in place.  However, changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations, including additional environmental or climate change regulation, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and hence could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet our financial obligations, including debt payments and the payment of dividends on our common stock.

 



  



37







Table of Contents



 

Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships.




We cannot be assured that any of our current ratings or our subsidiaries’ ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency.  In addition, our credit ratings may change as a result of the differing methodologies or change in the methodologies used by the various rating agencies.  For example, Standard & Poor’s calculates an imputed debt associated with capacity payments from purchased power contracts.  An increase in the overall level of capacity payments would increase the amount of imputed debt, based on Standard & Poor’s methodology.  Therefore, Xcel Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries credit ratings could be adversely affected based on the level of capacity payments associated with purchased power contracts or changes in how our imputed debt is determined.  Any downgrade could lead to higher borrowing costs.  Also, our utility subsidiaries may enter into certain procurement and derivative contracts that require the posting of collateral or settlement of applicable contracts if credit ratings fall below investment grade.




We are subject to capital market and interest rate risks.




Utility operations require significant capital investment in property, plant and equipment; consequently, we are an active participant in debt and equity markets.  Any disruption in capital markets could have a material impact on our ability to fund our operations.  Capital markets are global in nature and are impacted by numerous issues and events throughout the world economy, such as the concerns regarding European sovereign debt and management of the U.S. federal debt.  Capital market disruption events, and resulting broad financial market distress, such as the events surrounding the collapse in the U.S. sub-prime mortgage market, could prevent us from issuing new securities or cause us to issue securities with less than ideal terms and conditions, such as higher interest rates.




Higher interest rates on short-term borrowings with variable interest rates or on incremental commercial paper issuances could also have an adverse effect on our operating results. Changes in interest rates may also impact the fair value of the debt securities in the nuclear decommissioning fund and master pension trust, as well as our ability to earn a return on short-term investments of excess cash.




We are subject to credit risks.




Credit risk includes the risk that our retail customers will not pay their bills, which may lead to a reduction in liquidity and an eventual increase in bad debt expense.  Retail credit risk is comprised of numerous factors including the price of products and services provided, the overall economy and local economies in the geographic areas we serve, including local unemployment rates.




Credit risk also includes the risk that various counterparties that owe us money or product will breach their obligations.  Should the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative arrangements.  In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected and we could incur losses.




One alternative available to address counterparty credit risk is to transact on liquid commodity exchanges.  The credit risk is then socialized through the exchange central clearinghouse function.  While exchanges do remove counterparty credit risk, all participants are subject to margin requirements, which create an additional need for liquidity to post margin as exchange positions change value daily.  The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act (Dodd-Frank Act) requires broad clearing of financial swap transactions through a central counterparty, which could lead to additional margin requirements that would impact our liquidity: however, we expect to take advantage of an exception to mandatory clearing afforded to commercial end-users who are not classified as a major swap participant.  The CFTC has granted an increase in the de minimis level for swap transactions with defined utility special entities, generally entities owning or operating electric or natural gas facilities, from $25 million to $800 million.  Our current level of financial swap activity with special entities is significantly below this new threshold; therefore, we will not be classified as a swap dealer in our special entity activity.   Swap transactions with non special entities have a much higher level of activity considered to be de minimis, currently $8 billion, and our level of activity is well under this limit; therefore, we will not be classified as a swap dealer under the Dodd-Frank Act.  While we believe the impact on our liquidity will not be material, we expect to be required to report our swap transactions as part of the Dodd-Frank Act.




We may at times have direct credit exposure in our short-term wholesale and commodity trading activity to various financial institutions trading for their own accounts or issuing collateral support on behalf of other counterparties.  We may also have some indirect credit exposure due to participation in organized markets, such as PJM and MISO, in which any credit losses are socialized to all market participants.

 



  



38







Table of Contents



 

We do have additional indirect credit exposures to various domestic and foreign financial institutions in the form of letters of credit provided as security by power suppliers under various long-term physical purchased power contracts.  If any of the credit ratings of the letter of credit issuers were to drop below the designated investment grade rating stipulated in the underlying long-term purchased power contracts, the supplier would need to replace that security with an acceptable substitute.  If the security were not replaced, the party could be in technical default under the contract, which would enable us to exercise our contractual rights.




Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans and other employee benefits may adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or liquidity.




We have defined benefit pension and postretirement plans that cover substantially all of our employees.  Assumptions related to future costs, return on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions have a significant impact on our funding requirements related to these plans.  These estimates and assumptions may change based on economic conditions, actual stock and bond market performance, changes in interest rates and changes in governmental regulations.  In addition, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 changed the minimum funding requirements for defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2008 with modifications to these funding requirements in 2012 that allowed additional flexibility in the timing of contributions.  Therefore, our funding requirements and related contributions may change in the future.  Also, the payout of a significant percentage of pension plan liabilities in a single year due to high retirements or employees leaving the company would trigger settlement accounting and could require the company to recognize material incremental pension expense related to unrecognized plan losses in the year these liabilities are paid.




Increasing costs associated with health care plans may adversely affect our results of operations.




Our self-insured costs of health care benefits for eligible employees and costs for retiree health care plans have increased substantially in recent years.  Increasing levels of large individual health care claims and overall health care claims could have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial position, and liquidity.  We believe that our employee benefit costs, including costs related to health care plans for our employees and former employees, will continue to rise.  Legislation related to health care could also significantly change our benefit programs and costs.




We must rely on cash from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments.




We are a holding company and our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary assets.  Substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries.  Consequently, our operating cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends depends upon the operating cash flows of our subsidiaries and the payment of funds by them to us in the form of dividends.  Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any amounts due pursuant to our obligations or to make any funds available for that purpose or for dividends on our common stock, whether by dividends or otherwise.  In addition, each subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to us depends on any statutory and/or contractual restrictions that may be applicable to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain minimum levels of equity ratios, working capital or assets.  Also, our utility subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions, which generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are being met.




If our utility subsidiaries were to cease making dividend payments, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or otherwise meet our financial obligations could be adversely affected.




Operational Risks




We are subject to commodity risks and other risks associated with energy markets and energy production.




We engage in wholesale sales and purchases of electric capacity, energy and energy-related products and are subject to market supply and commodity price risk.  Commodity price changes can affect the value of our commodity trading derivatives.  We mark certain derivatives to estimated fair market value on a daily basis (mark-to-market accounting), which may cause earnings volatility.  Actual settlements can vary significantly from these estimates, and significant changes from the assumptions underlying our fair value estimates could cause significant earnings variability.

 



  



39







Table of Contents



 

If we encounter market supply shortages or our suppliers are otherwise unable to meet their contractual obligations, we may be unable to fulfill our contractual obligations to our retail, wholesale and other customers at previously authorized or anticipated costs.  Any such disruption, if significant, could cause us to seek alternative supply services at potentially higher costs or suffer increased liability for unfulfilled contractual obligations.  Any significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales commitments would have a negative impact on our cash flows and could potentially result in economic losses.  Potential market supply shortages may not be fully resolved through alternative supply sources and such interruptions may cause short-term disruptions in our ability to provide electric and/or natural gas services to our customers.  The impact of these cost and reliability issues vary in magnitude for each operating subsidiary depending upon unique operating conditions such as generation fuels mix, availability of water for cooling, availability of fuel transportation, electric generation capacity, transmission, etc.




Our subsidiary, NSP-Minnesota, is subject to the risks of nuclear generation.




NSP-Minnesota’s two nuclear stations, Prairie Island and Monticello, subject it to the risks of nuclear generation, which include:








  


·


The risks associated with use of radioactive material in the production of energy, the management, handling, storage and disposal of these radioactive materials and the current lack of a long-term disposal solution for radioactive materials;








  


·


Limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and








  


·


Uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of licensed lives.




 
 

The NRC has authority to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generation facilities.  In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.  Revised NRC safety requirements could necessitate substantial capital expenditures or a substantial increase in operating expenses at NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear plants.  In addition, the Institute for Nuclear Power Operations reviews NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear operations and nuclear generation facilities.  Compliance with the Institute for Nuclear Power Operations’ recommendations could result in substantial capital expenditures or a substantial increase in operating expenses.
 

If an incident did occur, it could have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  Furthermore, the non-compliance of other nuclear facilities operators with applicable regulations or the occurrence of a serious nuclear incident at other facilities could result in increased regulation of the industry as a whole, which could then increase NSP-Minnesota’s compliance costs and impact the results of operations of its facilities.




NSP-Wisconsin’s production and transmission system is operated on an integrated basis with NSP-Minnesota’s production and transmission system, and NSP-Wisconsin may be subject to risks associated with NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear generation.




Our utility operations are subject to long-term planning risks.




On a periodic basis our utility operations file long-term resource plans with our regulators.  These plans are based on numerous assumptions over the relevant planning horizon such as: sales growth, customer usage patterns, economic activity, costs, regulatory mechanisms, impact of technology on energy efficiency on sales and production, customer behavioral response and continuation of the existing utility business model.  Given the uncertainty in these planning assumptions, there is a risk that the magnitude and timing of resource additions and demand may not coincide.  This could lead to under recovery of costs or insufficient resources to meet customer demand.




In some of our state jurisdictions, large industrial customers may leave our system and invest in their own on-site distributed generation or seek law changes to give them the authority to purchase directly from other suppliers or organized markets.  The recent low natural gas price environment has caused some customers to consider their options in this area, particularly customers with industrial processes using steam.  Wholesale customers may purchase directly from other suppliers and procure only transmission service from our utility subsidiaries.  These circumstances provide for greater long-term planning uncertainty related to future load growth.  Similarly, distributed solar generation may become an economic competitive threat to our load growth in the future, however we believe the economics, absent significant subsidies, do not support such a trend in the near term unless a state mandates the purchase of such generation.  Some state legislatures have considered such legislation.

 



  



40







Table of Contents



 

Our natural gas transmission and distribution operations involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.




Our natural gas transmission and distribution activities include a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses.  In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial losses to us.  In accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses.




The occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations.  For our natural gas transmission or distribution lines located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of potential damages resulting from these risks is greater.




Additionally, the cost of potential regulations related to pipeline safety could be significant.




Public Policy Risks




We may be subject to legislative and regulatory responses to climate change and emissions, with which compliance could be difficult and costly.




Increased public awareness and concern regarding climate change may result in more regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of GHGs. Numerous states have announced or adopted programs to stabilize and reduce GHGs, and federal legislation has been introduced in both houses of Congress.  The U.S. continues to participate in international negotiations related to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.  Such legislative and regulatory responses related to climate change and new interpretations of existing laws through climate change litigation create financial risk as our electric generating facilities are likely to be subject to regulation under climate change laws introduced at either the state or federal level within the next few years.




The EPA has taken steps to regulate GHGs under the CAA.  In December 2009, the EPA issued a finding that GHG emissions endanger public health and welfare, and that motor vehicle emissions contribute to the GHGs in the atmosphere.  This endangerment finding created a mandatory duty for the EPA to regulate GHGs from light duty motor vehicles.  In January 2011, new EPA permitting requirements became effective for GHG emissions of new and modified large stationary sources, which are applicable to construction of new power plants or power plant modifications that increase emissions above a certain threshold.  The EPA has also announced that it will propose GHG regulations applicable to emissions from existing power plants, although it is not known when the EPA will initiate this rulemaking.




We are also currently a party to climate change lawsuits and may be subject to additional climate change lawsuits, including lawsuits similar to those described in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.  An adverse outcome in any of these cases could require substantial capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of substantial penalties or damages.  Defense costs associated with such litigation can also be significant.  Such payments or expenditures could affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered through regulated rates.




There are many uncertainties regarding when and in what form climate change legislation or regulations will be enacted.  The impact of legislation and regulations, on us and our customers will depend on a number of factors, including whether GHG sources in multiple sectors of the economy are regulated, the overall GHG emissions cap level, the degree to which GHG offsets are recognized as compliance options, the allocation of emission allowances to specific sources and the indirect impact of carbon regulation on natural gas and coal prices.  While we do not have operations outside of the U.S., any international treaties or accords could have an impact to the extent they lead to future federal or state regulations.  Another important factor is our ability to recover the costs incurred to comply with any regulatory requirements that are ultimately imposed.  We may not be able to timely recover all costs related to complying with regulatory requirements imposed on us.  If our regulators do not allow us to recover all or a part of the cost of capital investment or the O&M costs incurred to comply with the mandates, it could have a material effect on our results of operations.

 

We are also subject to a significant number of proposed and potential rules that will impact our coal-fired and other generation facilities.  These include, but are not limited to, rules associated with emissions of SO2 and NOx, mercury, regional haze, ozone, ash management and cooling water intake systems.  The costs of investment to comply with these rules could be substantial.  We may not be able to timely recover all costs related to complying with regulatory requirements imposed on us.

 



  



41







Table of Contents



 

Increased risks of regulatory penalties could negatively impact our business.




The Energy Act increased the FERC’s civil penalty authority for violation of FERC statutes, rules and orders.  The FERC can now impose penalties of $1 million per violation per day.  In addition, electric reliability standards are now mandatory and subject to potential financial penalties by regional entities, the NERC or the FERC for violations.  If a serious reliability incident did occur, it could have a material effect on our operations or financial results.




The FERC has provided NOVs of its market manipulation rules to several market participants during the year.  The potential penalties in one pending case exceed $400 million.  As with all regulatory requirements, we attempt to mitigate this risk through formal training on such prohibited practices and a compliance function that reviews our interaction with the markets under FERC and CFTC jurisdictions.  However, there is no guarantee our compliance program will be sufficient to ensure against violations.




Macroeconomic Risks




Economic conditions could negatively impact our business.




Our operations are affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions.  The consequences of a prolonged economic recession and uncertainty of recovery may result in a sustained lower level of economic activity and uncertainty with respect to energy prices and the capital and commodity markets.  A sustained lower level of economic activity may also result in a decline in energy consumption, which may adversely affect our revenues and future growth.  Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also may affect the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital, which are discussed in greater detail in the capital market risk section above.




Current economic conditions may be exacerbated by insufficient financial sector liquidity leading to potential increased unemployment, which may impact customers’ ability to pay timely, increase customer bankruptcies, and may lead to increased bad debt.




Further, worldwide economic activity has an impact on the demand for basic commodities needed for utility infrastructure, such as steel, copper, aluminum, etc., which may impact our ability to acquire sufficient supplies.  Additionally, the cost of those commodities may be higher than expected.




Our operations could be impacted by war, acts of terrorism, threats of terrorism or disruptions in normal operating conditions due to localized or regional events.




Our generation plants, fuel storage facilities, transmission and distribution facilities and information systems may be targets of terrorist activities that could disrupt our ability to produce or distribute some portion of our energy products.  Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure our assets, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  The potential for terrorism has subjected our operations to increased risks and could have a material effect on our business.  While we have already incurred increased costs for security and capital expenditures in response to these risks, we may experience additional capital and operating costs to implement security for our plants, including our nuclear power plants under the NRC’s design basis threat requirements, such as additional physical plant security and additional security personnel.  We have also already incurred increased costs for compliance with NERC reliability standards associated with critical infrastructure protection, and may experience additional capital and operating costs to comply with the NERC critical infrastructure protection standards as they are implemented and clarified.




The insurance industry has also been affected by these events and the availability of insurance may decrease.  In addition, the insurance we are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms.  For example, wildfire events, particularly in the geographic areas we serve, may cause insurance for wildfire losses to become difficult or expensive to obtain.




A disruption of the regional electric transmission grid, interstate natural gas pipeline infrastructure or other fuel sources, could negatively impact our business.  Because our generation, transmission systems and local natural gas distribution companies are part of an interconnected system, we face the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption caused by the actions of a neighboring utility or an event (severe storm, severe temperature extremes, generator or transmission facility outage, pipeline rupture, railroad disruption, sudden and significant increase or decrease in wind generation, or any disruption of work force such as may be caused by flu epidemic) within our operating systems or on a neighboring system. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results.

 



  



42







Table of Contents



 

The degree to which we are able to maintain day-to-day operations in response to unforeseen events, potentially through the execution of our business continuity plans, will in part determine the financial impact of certain events on our financial condition and results.  It’s difficult to predict the magnitude of such events and associated impacts.




A cyber incident or cyber security breach could have a material effect on our business.




We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  In addition, in the ordinary course of business, we use our systems and infrastructure to create, collect, use, disclose, store, dispose of and otherwise process sensitive information, including company data, customer energy usage data, and personal information regarding customers, employees and their dependents, contractors, shareholders and other individuals.




Our generation, transmission, distribution and fuel storage facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure or physical assets, as well as the information processed in our systems, infrastructure and assets could be directly or indirectly affected by unintentional or deliberate cyber security incidents, including those caused by human error.  Cyber security incidents could harm our businesses by limiting our generating, transmitting and distributing capabilities, delaying our development and construction of new facilities or capital improvement projects to existing facilities, disrupting our customer operations, or exposing us to liability.  As generation and transmission systems as well as natural gas pipelines are part of an interconnected system, a disruption caused by the impact of a cyber security incident of the regional electric transmission grid, natural gas pipeline infrastructure or other fuel sources or of our third party service providers’ operations,  could also negatively impact our business.  In addition, we also anticipate that such an event would receive regulatory scrutiny at both the Federal and State level.  We are unable to quantify the potential impact of such cyber security threats or subsequent related actions.  These potential cyber security incidents and corresponding regulatory action could result in a material decrease in revenues and may cause significant additional costs (e.g., penalties, third party claims, repairs, insurance or compliance) and potentially disrupt our supply and markets for natural gas, oil and other fuels.




Although we maintain security measures designed to protect our information technology systems, network infrastructure and other assets, these assets as well as the information they process may be vulnerable to cyber security incidents, including the resulting disability, or failures of assets or unauthorized access to assets or information.   If our technology systems were to fail or be breached, or those of our third-party service providers, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions, including effectively maintaining certain internal controls over financial reporting. We are unable to quantify the potential impact of cyber security incidents on our business.




Rising energy prices could negatively impact our business.




Higher fuel costs could significantly impact our results of operations if requests for recovery are unsuccessful.  In addition, higher fuel costs could reduce customer demand and/or increase bad debt expense, which could also have a material impact on our results of operations.  Delays in the timing of the collection of fuel cost recoveries as compared with expenditures for fuel purchases could have an impact on our cash flows.  We are unable to predict future prices or the ultimate impact of such prices on our results of operations or cash flows.




Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and can be adversely affected by milder weather.




Our electric and natural gas utility businesses are seasonal, and weather patterns can have a material impact on our operating performance.  Demand for electricity is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and heating.  Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns throughout our service territory, and a significant amount of natural gas revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating season.  Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the summer.  Unusually mild winters and summers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.




Item 1B