Item 1A – Risk
  Factors
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  1B – Unresolved Staff Comments
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 2 — Properties
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 3 —
  Legal Proceedings
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  4 — Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  PART II
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  5 — Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 6 —
  Selected Financial Data
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
  of Operations
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  9 — Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
  Disclosure
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 9A
  — Controls and Procedures
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 9B —
  Other Information
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  PART III
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  10 — Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 11
  — Executive Compensation
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  12 — Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  13 — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item
  14 — Principal Accounting Fees and Services
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  PART IV
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  Item 15 — Exhibits, Financial
  Statement Schedules
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  SIGNATURES
  
  
   
  
 


 












 

PART I

 

Item 1 —
Business

 

DEFINITION OF
ABBREVIATIONS AND INDUSTRY TERMS

 


 
  
  Xcel Energy Subsidiaries and Affiliate
  (current and former)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  BMG
  
  
   
  
  
  Black
  Mountain Gas Co., a regulated natural gas and propane distribution
  company
  
 
 
  
  Cheyenne
  
  
   
  
  
  Cheyenne
  Light, Fuel and Power Company, a Wyoming corporation
  
 
 
  
  Eloigne
  
  
   
  
  
  Eloigne Co., invests in
  rental housing projects that qualify for low-income housing tax credits
  
 
 
  
  NRG
  
  
   
  
  
  NRG
  Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation and independent power producer
  
 
 
  
  NMC
  
  
   
  
  
  Nuclear
  Management Co.
  
 
 
  
  NSP-Minnesota
  
  
   
  
  
  Northern
  States Power Co., a Minnesota corporation
  
 
 
  
  NSP-Wisconsin
  
  
   
  
  
  Northern
  States Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation
  
 
 
  
  Planergy
  
  
   
  
  
  Planergy
  International, Inc., an energy management solutions company
  
 
 
  
  PSCo
  
  
   
  
  
  Public
  Service Company of Colorado, a Colorado corporation
  
 
 
  
  PSRI
  
  
   
  
  
  PSR
  Investments, Inc.
  
 
 
  
  SPS
  
  
   
  
  
  Southwestern
  Public Service Co., a New Mexico corporation
  
 
 
  
  UE
  
  
   
  
  
  Utility
  Engineering Corporation, an engineering, construction and design
  company
  
 
 
  
  Utility
  Subsidiaries
  
  
   
  
  
  NSP-Minnesota,
  NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo, SPS
  
 
 
  
  Viking
  
  
   
  
  
  Viking Gas
  Transmission Co., an interstate natural gas pipeline company
  
 
 
  
  WGI
  
  
   
  
  
  WestGas
  Interstate, Inc., a Colorado corporation operating an interstate
  natural gas pipeline
  
 
 
  
  Xcel Energy
  
  
   
  
  
  Xcel Energy
  Inc., a Minnesota corporation
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Federal and State Regulatory Agencies
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  ASLB
  
  
   
  
  
  Atomic
  Safety and Licensing Board
  
 
 
  
  CPUC
  
  
   
  
  
  Colorado
  Public Utilities Commission. The state agency that regulates the retail
  rates, services and other aspects of PSCo’s operations in Colorado. The CPUC
  also has jurisdiction over the capital structure and issuance of securities
  by PSCo.
  
 
 
  
  DOE
  
  
   
  
  
  United
  States Department of Energy
  
 
 
  
  DOL
  
  
   
  
  
  United
  States Department of Labor
  
 
 
  
  EPA
  
  
   
  
  
  United
  States Environmental Protection Agency
  
 
 
  
  FERC
  
  
   
  
  
  Federal
  Energy Regulatory Commission. The U.S. agency that regulates the rates and
  services for transportation of electricity and natural gas, and the sale of
  wholesale electricity, in interstate commerce, including the sale of
  electricity at market-based rates.
  
 
 
  
  IRS
  
  
   
  
  
  Internal
  Revenue Service
  
 
 
  
  MEQB
  
  
   
  
  
  Minnesota
  Environmental Quality Board. Selects and designates sites for new power
  plants (capacity of 50MW or more), wind energy conversion plants (capacity of
  5MW or more) and routes for electric transmission lines (capacity of 100KV or
  more) in Minnesota.
  
 
 
  
  MPSC
  
  
   
  
  
  Michigan
  Public Service Commission. The state agency that regulates the retail rates,
  services and other aspects of NSP-Wisconsin’s operations in Michigan.
  
 
 
  
  MPUC
  
  
   
  
  
  Minnesota
  Public Utilities Commission. The state agency that regulates the retail
  rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s operations in Minnesota.
  The MPUC also has jurisdiction over the capital structure and issuance of
  securities by NSP-Minnesota.
  
 


 

3












 


 
  
  NMPRC
  
  
   
  
  
  New Mexico
  Public Regulation Commission. The state agency that regulates the retail
  rates and services and other aspects of SPS’ operations in New Mexico. The
  NMPRC also has jurisdiction over the issuance of securities by SPS.
  
 
 
  
  NDPSC
  
  
   
  
  
  North Dakota
  Public Service Commission. The state agency that regulates the retail rates,
  services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s operations in North Dakota.
  
 
 
  
  NRC
  
  
   
  
  
  Nuclear
  Regulatory Commission. The federal agency that regulates the operation of
  nuclear power plants.
  
 
 
  
  OCC
  
  
   
  
  
  Colorado
  Office of Consumer Counsel
  
 
 
  
  PSCW
  
  
   
  
  
  Public
  Service Commission of Wisconsin. The state agency that regulates the retail
  rates, services, securities issuances and other aspects of NSP-Wisconsin’s
  operations in Wisconsin.
  
 
 
  
  PUCT
  
  
   
  
  
  Public
  Utility Commission of Texas. The state agency that regulates the retail
  rates, services and other aspects of SPS’ operations in Texas.
  
 
 
  
  SDPUC
  
  
   
  
  
  South Dakota
  Public Utilities Commission. The state agency that regulates the retail rates,
  services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s operations in South Dakota.
  
 
 
  
  WDNR
  
  
   
  
  
  Wisconsin
  Department of Natural Resources
  
 
 
  
  WPSC
  
  
   
  
  
  Wyoming
  Public Service Commission. The state agency that regulates Cheyenne’s
  facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuances of securities.
  
 
 
  
  SEC
  
  
   
  
  
  Securities
  and Exchange Commission
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Fuel, Purchased Gas and Resource Adjustment
  Clauses
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  AQIR
  
  
   
  
  
  Air-quality
  improvement rider. Recovers, over a 15-year period, the incremental cost
  (including fuel and purchased energy) incurred by PSCo as a result of a
  voluntary plan to reduce emissions and improve air quality in the Denver
  metro area.
  
 
 
  DSM
   
  Demand-side management. Energy conservation and weatherization program for low-income customers.
 
 
  DSMCA
   
  Demand-side management cost adjustment. A clause permitting PSCo to recover demand-side management costs over five years while non-labor incremental expenses and carrying costs associated with deferred DSM costs are recovered on an annual basis. Costs for the low-income energy assistance program are recovered through the DSMCA.
 
 
  
  ECA
  
  
   
  
  
  Electric
  commodity adjustment. An incentive adjustment mechanism allowing PSCo to
  compare actual fuel and purchased energy expense in a calendar year to a
  benchmark formula. The ECA then provides for an $11.25 million cap on any
  cost sharing over or under an allowed ECA formula rate.
  
 
 
  
  FCA
  
  
   
  
  
  Fuel clause adjustment. A
  clause included in NSP-Minnesota’s retail electric rate schedules that
  provides for prospective monthly rate adjustments to reflect the forecasted
  cost of electric fuel and purchased energy. The difference between the
  electric costs collected through the FCA rates and the actual costs incurred
  in a month are collected or refunded in a subsequent three-month period.
  
 
 
  
  GCA
  
  
   
  
  
  Gas cost
  adjustment. Allows PSCo to recover its actual costs of purchased natural gas
  and natural gas transportation. The GCA is revised monthly to coincide with
  changes in purchased gas costs.
  
 
 
  
  ICA
  
  
   
  
  
  Incentive
  cost adjustment. A retail adjustment clause that allowed PSCo to equally
  share between electric customers and shareholders certain fuel and purchased
  energy costs. This clause expired Dec. 31, 2002. The collection of
  prudently incurred 2002 ICA costs was amortized over the period June 1,
  2002, through March 31, 2005.
  
 


 

4












 


 
  
  IAC
  
  
   
  
  
  Interim
  adjustment clause. A retail adjustment clause that allowed PSCo to recover
  prudently incurred fuel and energy costs not included in electric base rates.
  The clause expired Dec. 31, 2003.
  
 
 
  
  PCCA
  
  
   
  
  
  Purchased
  capacity cost adjustment. Allows PSCo to recover from customers purchased
  capacity payments to power suppliers under specifically identified power
  purchase agreements that are not included in the determination of PSCo’s base
  electric rates or other recovery mechanisms. This clause will expire
  Dec. 31, 2006.
  
 
 
  
  PGA
  
  
   
  
  
  Purchased
  gas adjustment. A clause included in NSP-Minnesota’s and NSP-Wisconsin’s
  retail natural gas rate schedules that provides for prospective monthly rate
  adjustments to reflect the forecasted cost of purchased natural gas and
  natural gas transportation. The annual difference between the natural gas
  costs collected through PGA rates and the actual natural gas costs is
  collected or refunded over the subsequent 12-month period.
  
 
 
  
  QSP
  
  
   
  
  
  Quality of service plan.
  Provides for bill credits to Colorado retail customers if PSCo does not
  achieve certain operational performance targets.
  
 
 
  
  RCR
  
  
   
  
  
  Renewable cost recovery
  adjustment. Allows NSP-Minnesota to recover the cost of transmission
  facilities and other costs incurred to facilitate the purchase of renewable
  energy (including wind energy) in retail electric rates in Minnesota. The RCR
  is revised annually.
  
 
 
  
  SCA
  
  
   
  
  
  Steam cost
  adjustment. Allows PSCo to recover the difference between its actual cost of
  fuel and the amount of these costs recovered under its base steam service
  rates. The SCA is revised annually to coincide with changes in fuel costs.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Other Terms and Abbreviations
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  AFDC
  
  
   
  
  
  Allowance
  for funds used during construction. Defined in regulatory accounts as a
  non-cash accounting convention that represents the estimated composite
  interest costs of debt and a return on equity funds used to finance
  construction. The allowance is capitalized in property accounts and included
  in income.
  
 
 
  
  ALJ
  
  
   
  
  
  Administrative
  law judge. A judge presiding over regulatory proceedings.
  
 
 
  
  ARO
  
  
   
  
  
  Asset
  Retirement Obligation
  
 
 
  
  C20
  
  
   
  
  
  Derivatives
  Implementation Group of FASB Implementation Issue No. C20. Clarified the
  terms clearly and closely related to normal purchases and sales contracts, as
  included in SFAS No. 133, as amended.
  
 
 
  
  COLI
  
  
   
  
  
  Corporate-owned
  life insurance
  
 
 
  
  Decommissioning
  
  
   
  
  
  The process
  of closing down a nuclear facility and reducing the residual radioactivity to
  a level that permits the release of the property and termination of license.
  Nuclear power plants are required by the NRC to set aside funds for their
  decommissioning costs during operation.
  
 
 
  
  Deferred
  energy costs
  
  
   
  
  
  The amount
  of fuel costs applicable to service rendered in one accounting period that
  will not be reflected in billings to customers until a subsequent accounting
  period.
  
 
 
  
  Derivative
  instrument
  
  
   
  
  
  A financial
  instrument or other contract with all three of the following characteristics:
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •      An underlying and a
  notional amount or payment provision or both,
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •      Requires no initial
  investment or an initial net investment that is smaller than would be
  required for other types of contracts that would be expected to have a
  similar response to changes in market factors, and
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  •      Terms require or permit a
  net settlement, can be readily settled net by means outside the contract or
  provides for delivery of an asset that puts the recipient in a position not
  substantially different from net settlement
  
 


 

5












 


 
  
  Distribution
  
  
   
  
  
  The system
  of lines, transformers, switches and mains that connect electric and natural
  gas transmission systems to customers.
  
 
 
  
  EPS
  
  
   
  
  
  Earnings per
  share of common stock outstanding
  
 
 
  
  EWG
  
  
   
  
  
  Exempt
  wholesale generator, as defined under PUHCA
  
 
 
  
  ERISA
  
  
   
  
  
  Employee Retirement
  Income Security Act
  
 
 
  
  FASB
  
  
   
  
  
  Financial
  Accounting Standards Board
  
 
 
  
  FIN
  No. 46
  
  
   
  
  
  FASB
  Interpretation No. 46(R) – Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
  (revised December 2003)-an interpretation of Accounting Research
  Bulletin 51
  
 
 
  
  FTRs
  
  
   
  
  
  Financial Transmission
  Rights
  
 
 
  
  GAAP
  
  
   
  
  
  Generally
  accepted accounting principles
  
 
 
  
  Generation
  
  
   
  
  
  The process
  of transforming other forms of energy, such as nuclear or fossil fuels, into
  electricity. Also, the amount of electric energy produced, expressed in
  megawatts (capacity) or megawatt hours (energy).
  
 
 
  
  JOA
  
  
   
  
  
  Joint
  operating agreement among the Utility Subsidiaries
  
 
 
  
  LDC
  
  
   
  
  
  Local
  distribution company. A company or division that obtains the major portion of
  its revenues from the operations of a retail distribution system for the
  delivery of electricity or natural gas for ultimate consumption.
  
 
 
  
  LIBOR
  
  
   
  
  
  London
  Interbank Offered Rate
  
 
 
  
  LNG
  
  
   
  
  
  Liquefied
  natural gas. Natural gas that has been converted to a liquid.
  
 
 
  
  Mark-to-market
  
  
   
  
  
  The process
  whereby an asset or liability is recognized at fair value.
  
 
 
  
  MERP
  
  
   
  
  
  Metropolitan
  Emissions Reduction Project
  
 
 
  
  MGP
  
  
   
  
  
  Manufactured
  gas plant
  
 
 
  
  MISO
  
  
   
  
  
  Midwest
  Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc.
  
 
 
  
  Moody’s
  
  
   
  
  
  Moody’s
  Investor Services Inc.
  
 
 
  
  Native load
  
  
   
  
  
  The customer
  demand of retail and wholesale customers whereby a utility has an obligation
  to serve: e.g., an obligation to provide electric or natural gas service
  created by statute or long-term contract.
  
 
 
  
  Natural gas
  
  
   
  
  
  A naturally
  occurring mixture of hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon gases found in porous
  geological formations beneath the earth’s surface, often in association with
  petroleum. The principal constituent is methane.
  
 
 
  
  Nonutility
  
  
   
  
  
  All items of
  revenue, expense and investment not associated, either by direct assignment
  or by allocation, with providing service to the utility customer.
  
 
 
  
  OMOI
  
  
   
  
  
  FERC Office
  of Market Oversight and Investigations
  
 
 
  
  PBRP
  
  
   
  
  
  Performance-based
  regulatory plan. An annual electric earnings test, an electric quality
  of service plan and a natural gas quality of service plan established by the
  CPUC.
  
 
 
  
  PFS
  
  
   
  
  
  Private Fuel
  Storage, LLC. A consortium of private parties (including
  NSP-Minnesota) working to establish a private facility for interim storage of
  spent nuclear fuel.
  
 
 
  
  PJM
  
  
   
  
  
  PJM Interconnection, LLC
  
 
 
  
  PUHCA
  
  
   
  
  
  Public
  Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. Enacted to regulate the corporate
  structure and financial operations of utility holding companies.
  
 
 
  
  QF
  
  
   
  
  
  Qualifying
  facility. As defined under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of
  1978, a QF sells power to a regulated utility at a price equal to that which
  it would otherwise pay if it were to build its own power plant or buy power
  from another source.
  
 
 
  
  Rate base
  
  
   
  
  
  The
  investor-owned plant facilities for generation, transmission and distribution
  and other assets used in supplying utility service to the consumer.
  
 
 
  
  ROE
  
  
   
  
  
  Return on
  equity
  
 


 

6












 


 
  
  RTO
  
  
   
  
  
  Regional
  Transmission Organization. An independent entity, which is established to
  have “functional control” over a utility’s electric transmission systems, in
  order to provide non-discriminatory access to transmission of electricity.
  
 
 
  
  SFAS
  
  
   
  
  
  Statement of
  Financial Accounting Standards
  
 
 
  
  SMA
  
  
   
  
  
  Supply
  margin assessment
  
 
 
  
  SMD
  
  
   
  
  
  Standard
  market design
  
 
 
  
  SO2
  
  
   
  
  
  Sulfur
  dioxide
  
 
 
  
  SPP
  
  
   
  
  
  Southwest
  Power Pool, Inc.
  
 
 
  
  Standard &
  Poor’s
  
  
   
  
  
  Standard &
  Poor’s Ratings Services
  
 
 
  
  TEMT
  
  
   
  
  
  Transmission
  and Energy Markets Tariff
  
 
 
  
  TRANSLink
  
  
   
  
  
  TRANSLink
  Transmission Co., LLC
  
 
 
  
  Unbilled
  revenues
  
  
   
  
  
  Amount of
  service rendered but not billed at the end of an accounting period. Cycle meter-reading
  practices result in unbilled consumption between the date of last meter
  reading and the end of the period.
  
 
 
  
  Underlying
  
  
   
  
  
  A specified
  interest rate, security price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index
  of prices or rates, or other variable, including the occurrence or
  nonoccurrence of a specified event such as a scheduled payment under a
  contract.
  
 
 
  
  VaR
  
  
   
  
  
  Value-at-risk
  
 
 
  
  Wheeling or
  Transmission
  
  
   
  
  
  An electric
  service wherein high-voltage transmission facilities of one utility system
  are used to transmit power generated within or purchased from another system.
  
 
 
  
  Working
  capital
  
  
   
  
  
  Funds
  necessary to meet operating expenses.
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Measurements
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Btu
  
  
   
  
  
  British
  thermal unit. A standard unit for measuring thermal energy or heat commonly
  used as a gauge for the energy content of natural gas and other fuels.
  
 
 
  
  Bcf
  
  
   
  
  
  Billion
  cubic feet
  
 
 
  
  Dth
  
  
   
  
  
  Dekatherm
  (one Dth is equal to one MMBtu)
  
 
 
  
  kV
  
  
   
  
  
  Kilovolts
  
 
 
  
  kW
  
  
   
  
  
  Kilowatts
  (one kW equals one thousand watts)
  
 
 
  
  kWh
  
  
   
  
  
  Kilowatt
  hours
  
 
 
  
  Mcf
  
  
   
  
  
  Thousand
  cubic feet
  
 
 
  
  MMBtu
  
  
   
  
  
  One million
  BTUs
  
 
 
  
  MW
  
  
   
  
  
  Megawatts
  (one MW equals one thousand KW)
  
 
 
  
  Mwh
  
  
   
  
  
  Megawatt
  hour (one Mwh equals one thousand Kwh)
  
 
 
  
  Watt
  
  
   
  
  
  A measure of
  power production or usage.
  
 
 
  
  Volt
  
  
   
  
  
  The unit of
  measurement of electromotive force. Equivalent to the force required to produce
  a current of one ampere through a resistance of one ohm. The unit of measure
  for electrical potential. Generally measured in kilovolts or kV.
  
 


 

7












 

COMPANY OVERVIEW

 

Xcel
Energy is a holding company, with subsidiaries engaged primarily in the utility
business.  In 2005, Xcel Energy’s
continuing operations included the activity of four wholly owned utility
subsidiaries that serve electric and natural gas customers in 10 states. These
utility subsidiaries are NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS. These
utilities serve customers in portions of Colorado, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota,
New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas and Wisconsin.  Along with WGI, an interstate natural gas
pipeline company, these companies comprise our continuing regulated utility
operations

 

Xcel
Energy’s nonregulated subsidiaries in continuing operations include Eloigne and
Planergy International, Inc. 
Planergy International, Inc. closed and began selling a majority of
its business operations in 2003 with all operations ceasing in 2004.

 

Discontinued utility operations include the activity of Viking, which
was sold in January 2003; BMG, which was sold in October 2003; and
Cheyenne, which was sold in January 2005.

 

In April 2005, Zachry Group, Inc. acquired all of the
outstanding shares of UE, a nonregulated subsidiary.  In August 2005, Xcel Energy’s board of
directors approved management’s plan to pursue the sale of Quixx Corp., a
former subsidiary of UE that partners in cogeneration projects that was not
included in the sale of UE to Zachry.  As
a result, Xcel Energy is reporting UE and Quixx as components of discontinued
operations for all periods presented.

 

During
2004, Xcel Energy’s board of directors approved management’s plan to pursue the
sale of Seren Innovations, Inc.   On
Nov. 3, 2005, Xcel Energy completed the sale of Seren’s California assets
to WaveDivision Holdings, LLC.  On Jan. 9,
2006, Xcel Energy completed the sale of Seren’s Minnesota assets to Charter
Communications.

 

During
2003, Xcel Energy divested its ownership interest in NRG.  On May 14, 2003, NRG filed for
bankruptcy to restructure their debt.  As
a result of the reorganization, Xcel Energy relinquished its ownership interest
in NRG.  Xcel Energy made payments of
$752 million to NRG in 2004.  During
2003, the board of directors of Xcel Energy also approved management’s plan to
exit certain businesses conducted by the nonregulated subsidiaries Xcel Energy
International Inc. and e prime inc.  NRG,
Xcel Energy International, e prime, Seren, UE and Quixx are accounted for as
components of discontinued operations.

 

For
more information regarding Xcel Energy’s discontinued operations, see Note 2 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

Historically, Xcel Energy
has been a registered holding company under the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935
(PUHCA).  As a registered holding
company, Xcel Energy, its utility subsidiaries and certain of its non-utility
subsidiaries have been subject to extensive regulation by the SEC under PUHCA
with respect to numerous matters, including issuances and sales of securities,
acquisitions and sales of certain utility properties, payments of dividends out
of capital and surplus, and intra-system sales of certain non-power goods and
services.  In addition, the PUHCA
generally limited the ability of registered holding companies to acquire
additional public utility systems and to acquire and retain businesses
unrelated to the utility operations of the holding company.

 

On August 8, 2005,
President Bush signed into law the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Energy Act),
significantly changing many federal statutes and repealing PUHCA as of February 8,
2006.  As part of the repeal of PUHCA,
FERC was given more authority over the merger and acquisition of public
utilities and more authority over the books and records of public
utilities.  Despite these increases in
FERC’s authority, Xcel Energy believes that the repeal of PUHCA will lessen its
regulatory burdens and give it more flexibility in the event it were to choose
to expand its utility or non-utility businesses.

 

Besides repealing PUHCA, the
Energy Act is also expected to have substantial long-term effects on energy
markets, energy investment and regulation of public utilities and holding
company systems by the FERC and DOE. 
FERC and DOE are in various stages of rulemaking in implementing the
Energy Act.  While the precise impact of
these rulemakings cannot be determined at this time, Xcel Energy generally
views the Energy Act as legislation that will enhance the utility industry
going forward.

 

Xcel
Energy was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1909.  Xcel
Energy’s executive offices are located at 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minn.
55402.  Its Web site address is www.xcelenergy.com.  Xcel Energy makes available, free of charge
through its Web site, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those
reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after
such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  In addition,

 

8












 

the
Xcel Energy Guidelines on Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct also are
available on its Web site.

 

NSP-Minnesota

 

NSP-Minnesota
was incorporated in 2000 under the laws of Minnesota.  Prior to 2000, the regulated utility
operations currently conducted by NSP-Minnesota were conducted by the legal
entity now operating under the name Xcel Energy.  NSP-Minnesota is an operating utility engaged
in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity
in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota. 
The wholesale customers served by NSP-Minnesota comprised approximately
X percent of the total Kwh sales in 2005. 
NSP-Minnesota also purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural
gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas in Minnesota
and North Dakota.  NSP-Minnesota provides
electric utility service to approximately 1.3 million customers and gas utility
service to approximately 0.5 million customers.

 

The
electric production and transmission system of NSP-Minnesota is managed as an
integrated system with that of NSP-Wisconsin, jointly referred to as the NSP
System. The electric production and transmission costs of the entire NSP System
are shared by NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin. 
A FERC-approved agreement between the two companies, called the
Interchange Agreement, provides for the sharing of all costs of generation and
transmission facilities of the NSP System, including capital costs.

 

NSP-Minnesota owns the following direct subsidiaries: United Power and
Land Co., which holds real estate; and NSP Nuclear Corp., which holds
NSP-Minnesota’s interest in the NMC.  NSP
Financing I, a former special purpose financing trust of NSP-Minnesota, was
dissolved in September 2003.

 

NSP-Wisconsin

 

NSP-Wisconsin
was incorporated in 1901 under the laws of Wisconsin.  NSP-Wisconsin is an operating utility engaged
in the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity to
approximately 242,000 customers in portions of northwestern Wisconsin and in
the western portion of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.  The wholesale customers served by
NSP-Wisconsin comprised approximately 8 percent of NSP-Wisconsin’s total Kwh
sales in 2005.  NSP-Wisconsin also purchases, transports,
distributes and sells natural gas to retail customers and transports
customer-owned natural gas in the same service territory to approximately
98,000 customers.  See the discussion of
the integrated management of the electric production and transmission system of
NSP-Wisconsin under NSP-Minnesota, discussed previously.

 

NSP-Wisconsin
owns the following direct subsidiaries: Chippewa and Flambeau Improvement Co.,
which operates hydro reservoirs; Clearwater Investments Inc., which owns
interests in affordable housing; and NSP Lands, Inc., which holds real
estate.

 

PSCo

 

PSCo
was incorporated in 1924 under the laws of Colorado. PSCo is an operating
utility engaged primarily in the generation, purchase, transmission,
distribution and sale of electricity. 
PSCo also purchases, transports, distributes and sells natural gas to
retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas.  PSCo serves approximately 1.3 million
electric customers and approximately 1.2 million natural gas customers in
Colorado.  The wholesale customers
served by PSCo comprised approximately 23 percent of PSCo’s total Kwh sales in
2005.

 

PSCo
owns the following direct subsidiaries: 1480 Welton, Inc., which owns
certain real estate interests for PSCo; PSRI, which owns and manages permanent
life insurance policies on certain current and former employees; and Green and
Clear Lakes Company, which owns water rights. PSCo also holds a controlling
interest in several other relatively small ditch and water companies whose
capital requirements are not significant. 
PSCo Capital Trust I, a former special purpose financing trust of PSCo,
was dissolved in December 2003.

 

SPS

 

SPS was
incorporated in 1921 under the laws of New Mexico. SPS is an operating utility
engaged primarily in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and
sale of electricity. SPS serves approximately 395,000 electric customers in
portions of Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Kansas. The wholesale customers
served by SPS comprised approximately 38 percent of SPS’s total Kwh sales in
2005.  A major portion of SPS’ retail
electric operating revenues is derived from operations in Texas.  In October 2005, SPS reached a
definitive agreement to sell its delivery system operations in Oklahoma, Kansas
and a small portion of Texas to Tri-County Electric Cooperative.  The transaction, subject to regulatory
approvals, is expected to

 

9












 

be completed in
2006.  Southwestern
Public Service Capital I, a former special purpose financing trust of SPS, was
dissolved in January 2004.

 

Other Regulated
Subsidiaries

 

WGI was incorporated in 1990 under the laws of Colorado. WGI is a small
interstate natural gas pipeline company engaged in transporting natural gas
from the PSCo system near Chalk Bluffs, Colo., to the Cheyenne system near
Cheyenne, Wyo.

 

See financial information regarding the segments of Xcel Energy’s business
at Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS

 

Electric Utility Trends

 

Overview

 

Utility Industry Growth — Xcel Energy intends to focus on growing
through investments in electric and natural gas rate base to meet growing
customer demands and to maintain or increase reliability and quality of service
to customers.  Xcel Energy will file rate
cases with state and federal regulators to earn a return on its investments and
recover costs of operations.

 

Utility
Restructuring and Retail Competition — The structure of
the utility industry has been subject to change.  Merger and acquisition activity has been
significant as utilities combined to capture economies of scale or establish a
strategic niche in preparing for the future. 
Some states have implemented some form of retail electric utility
competition.  Much of Texas has
implemented retail competition, but it is presently limited to utilities within
the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which does not include SPS.  Under current law, SPS can file a plan to
implement competition, subject to regulatory approval, in Texas on or after Jan. 1,
2007.  However, SPS has no plan to
implement retail competition in its service area.  In 2002, NSP-Wisconsin began providing its
Michigan electric customers with the opportunity to select an alternative
electric energy provider.  To date, no
NSP-Wisconsin customers have selected an alternative electric energy provider.

 

The retail electric business
does face some competition as industrial and large commercial customers have
some ability to own or operate facilities to generate their own electricity. In
addition, customers may have the option of substituting other fuels, such as
natural gas or steam/chilled water for heating, cooling and manufacturing
purposes, or the option of relocating their facilities to a lower cost
region.  While each of Xcel Energy’s
Utility Subsidiaries face these challenges, these subsidiaries believe their
rates are competitive with currently available alternatives.

 

Summary of Recent Federal
Regulatory Developments

 

The FERC has jurisdiction over rates for electric transmission service
in interstate commerce and electric energy sold at wholesale, hydro facility
licensing, accounting practices and certain other activities of Xcel Energy’s
Utility Subsidiaries.  State and local
agencies have jurisdiction over many of Xcel Energy’s activities, including
regulation of retail rates and environmental matters.

 

FERC Rules Implementing
Energy Act - The Energy Act repealed PUHCA
effective Feb. 8, 2006.  In
addition, the Energy Act required the FERC to conduct several rulemakings to
adopt new regulations to implement various aspects of the Energy Act.  Since Aug. 2005, the FERC has completed
or initiated the proceedings to modify its regulations on a number of subjects,
including:

 

•      Adopting new
regulations to implement the Energy Act repeal of PUHCA by establishing rules for
accounting procedures for holding company systems, including cost allocation rules for
transactions between companies within a holding company system;

•      Adopting new
regulations to implement changes to the FERC’s merger and asset transfer
authority under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act;

•      Adopting new “market
manipulation regulations” prohibiting any
“manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance” in wholesale natural gas and
electricity commodity and transportation or transmission markets and
interpreting this standard in a manner consistent with Rule 10b-5 of the
SEC; violations are subject to potential civil penalties of up to $1
million per day;

•      Adopting
regulations to establish a national Electric Reliability Organization (ERO) to
replace the voluntary North American Electric Reliability Council (NERC)
structure, and requiring the ERO to establish mandatory reliability

 

10












 

standards and imposition of financial or
other penalties for violations of adopted standards; NERC is expected to apply
to become designated as the ERO later in 2006;

•      Adopting rules to
implement changes to the Public Regulatory Policy Act of 1978 (PURPA) to allow
utility ownership of Qualifying Facilities (QFs) and strengthening the thermal
energy requirements for entities seeking to be QFs;

•      Proposing rules that
would allow a utility to seek to eliminate its mandatory QF power purchase
obligation for utilities in organized wholesale energy markets;

•      Proposing rules to
establish incentives for investment in new electric transmission infrastructure.

 

Xcel Energy cannot predict the ultimate impact the new regulations will
have on its operations or financial results.

 

Market-Based Rate
Authority — The FERC regulates the wholesale sale
of electricity.  In order to obtain
market-based rate authorization from the FERC, utilities are required to submit
analyses demonstrating whether they have market power in the relevant
markets.  Xcel Energy and its utility
subsidiaries were previously granted market-based rate authority by the
FERC.  However, the FERC has subsequently
modified its standards making it more difficult for utilities to demonstrate
that they do not have market power and thus more difficult to obtain
market-based rate authority, particularly in their own service territories.

 

On Feb. 7, 2005, Xcel Energy on behalf of itself and the utility
subsidiaries filed an updated market-power analysis that applied FERC’s new
standards.  This analysis demonstrated
that all of the Utility Subsidiaries, with the exception of PSCo, passed the
pivotal supplier analysis in their own control areas and all adjacent markets,
but that all failed the market share analysis in their own control areas, and
in the case of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin, which jointly operate a single
control area and accordingly are analyzed as one company, in certain adjacent
markets.

 

In June 2005, the FERC initiated a proceeding to investigate PSCo’s
and SPS’ market-based rate authority within their own control areas.  The refund effective date that has been set
as part of that investigation for such sales is Aug. 12, 2005.  Because of the commencement of the MISO Day 2
market, and the FERC’s decision consistent with other precedent to analyze
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin as part of that larger market, the FERC is not
addressing NSP-Minnesota’s and NSP-Wisconsin’s market power in that
investigation. The FERC did require that Xcel Energy make a compliance filing
providing information, including information regarding the FERC’s affiliate
abuse component of its market power analysis and the allegations regarding that
component made by an intervenor within 30 days of the date of issuance of its
order.  The latter compliance filing was
submitted on July 5, 2005.

 

On Aug. 1, 2005, SPS and PSCo submitted a filing to withdraw their
market-based rate authority with respect to sales within their control
areas.  SPS and PSCo proposed to charge
existing cost-based rates for sales into the SPS and PSCo control areas.  In October 2005, PSCo and SPS filed
revised tariff sheets to reflect that limitation on their market-based rate
authority.  Certain intervenors are still
contending that the FERC must hold an investigation regarding SPS’ market power
and the rates that SPS is proposing to charge where it has relinquished
market-based rate authority.  The matter
is pending before the FERC.

 

Electric Transmission Rate Regulation — The FERC also regulates the rates charged
and terms and conditions for electric transmission services.  FERC policy encourages utilities to turn over
the functional control over their electric transmission assets and the related
responsibility for the sale of electric transmission services to an RTO.  NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin are members
of the MISO, which began RTO operations in early 2002.  SPS is a member of the SPP, which proposes
to begin RTO operations on May 1, 2006.  SPS has been a member of SPP’s
regional transmission tariff since 2001. 
Each RTO separately files for regional transmission tariff rates for
approval by FERC.  All members within
that RTO are then subjected to those rates. 
SPS has not yet filed for state regulatory authorization in New Mexico
to transfer functional control of its transmission system to the SPP RTO.  PSCo is currently participating with other
utilities in the development of an RTO.

 

Centralized Regional Wholesale Markets – FERC rules require RTO’s to operate
centralized regional wholesale energy markets. 
The FERC required the MISO to begin operation of a “Day 2” energy market
on April 1, 2005.  MISO uses
security constrained regional economic dispatch and congestion management using
locational marginal pricing (LMP) and FTR’s. 
The Day 2 market is intended to provide more efficient generation
dispatch over the 15 state MISO region.

 

11












 

NSP-Minnesota

 

Ratemaking Principles

 

Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of
Jurisdiction —
Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s operations are
regulated by the MPUC, the NDPSC and the SDPUC within their respective states.
The MPUC has regulatory authority over aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s financial
activities, including security issuances, property transfers, mergers and
transactions between NSP-Minnesota and its affiliates. In addition, the MPUC
reviews and approves NSP-Minnesota’s electric resource plans for meeting
customers’ future energy needs. The MPUC also certifies the need for generating
plants greater than 50 MW and transmission lines greater than 100 KV.

 

The
MPUC is also empowered to select and designate sites for new power plants with
a capacity of 50 MW or more and wind energy conversion plants with a capacity
of five MW or more. It also designates routes for electric transmission lines
with a capacity of 100 KV or more. No power plant or transmission line may be
constructed in Minnesota except on a site or route designated by the MPUC. The
NDPSC and SDPUC have regulatory authority over the need for certain generating
and transmission facilities, and the siting and routing of certain new
generation and transmission facilities in North Dakota and South Dakota,
respectively.

 

NSP-Minnesota
is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to its wholesale
electric operations, accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale and the
transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. NSP-Minnesota has received
authorization from the FERC to make wholesale electric sales at market-based
prices (see market-based rate authority discussion) and is a transmission-owner
member of the MISO RTO.

 

Fuel, Purchased Energy and Conservation
Cost Recovery Mechanisms — NSP-Minnesota’s retail electric rate schedules in Minnesota, North
Dakota and South Dakota include a FCA that provides for monthly adjustments to
billings and revenues for changes in prudently incurred cost of fuel, fuel
related items and purchased energy. 
NSP-Minnesota is permitted to recover these costs through FCA mechanisms
individually approved by the regulators in each jurisdiction.  The FCA mechanisms allow NSP-Minnesota to
bill customers for the cost of fuel and fuel related costs used to generate
electricity at its plants and energy purchased from other suppliers.  With NSP-Minnesota’s participation in the
MISO Day 2 market, questions have been raised regarding the inclusion of
certain MISO charges in the FCA.  For
further discussion, see NSP-Minnesota Pending and Recently Concluded Regulatory
Proceedings – MPUC.  In general, capacity
costs are not recovered through the FCA. 
NSP-Minnesota’s electric wholesale customers also have a FCA provision
in their contracts.

 

NSP-Minnesota
is required by Minnesota law to spend a minimum of 2 percent of Minnesota
electric revenue on conservation improvement programs.  These costs are recovered through an annual
cost recovery mechanism for electric conservation and energy management program
expenditures. NSP-Minnesota is required to request a new cost recovery level
annually.

 

Performance-Based Regulation — In December 2003, the MPUC voted to
approve NSP-Minnesota’s MERP proposal to convert two coal-fueled electric generating
plants to natural gas, and to install advanced pollution control equipment at a
third coal-fired plant.  All three plants
are located in the Minneapolis - St. Paul metropolitan area. These improvements
are expected to significantly reduce air emissions from these facilities, while
increasing the capacity at system peak by 300 MW. The projects are expected to
come on line between 2007 and 2009, at a cumulative investment of approximately
$1 billion.  The MPUC approved a rate
rider to recover prudent costs of the projects from Minnesota customers
beginning Jan. 1, 2006, including a rate of return on the construction
work in progress.  The MPUC approval has
a sliding ROE scale based on actual construction cost compared with a target
level of construction costs (based on an equity ratio of 48.5 percent and debt
of 51.5 percent) to incentivize NSP-Minnesota to control construction costs.

 




 
  
  Actual Costs as a Percent of
  Target Costs
  
  
   
  
  
  ROE
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Less than or
  equal to 75%
  
  
   
  
  
  11.47
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Over 75% and
  up through 85%
  
  
   
  
  
  11.22
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Over 85% and
  up through 95%
  
  
   
  
  
  11.00
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Over 95% and
  up through 105%
  
  
   
  
  
  10.86
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Over 105%
  and up through 115%
  
  
   
  
  
  10.55
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Over 115%
  and up through 125%
  
  
   
  
  
  10.22
  
  
  %
  
 
 
  
  Over 125%
  
  
   
  
  
  9.97
  
  
  %
  
 




 

12












 

Pending and
Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings - FERC

 

MISO Operations
—NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin are members of the MISO. The MISO is an RTO that provides
regional transmission tariff administration services for electric transmission
systems, including those of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.  In 2002, NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin
received all required regulatory approvals to transfer functional control of
their high voltage (100 KVand above) transmission systems to the MISO. The MISO
membership grants MISO functional control over the operations of these
facilities and the facilities of certain neighboring electric utilities.

 

On April 1, 2005, MISO initiated a regional wholesale energy
market using LMP and FTR’s Day 2 market pursuant to its TEMT.  While it is anticipated the Day 2 market will
provide efficiencies through region-wide generation dispatch and increased
reliability, as well as long-term benefits through dispatch of power from the
most cost-effective sources of generation or transmission, there are costs
associated with the Day 2 market. 
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have requested recovery of these costs
within their respective jurisdictions. 
For further discussion, see Pending and Recently Concluded Regulatory
Proceedings –
MPUC.

 

Within MISO, an
independent market monitor reviews market bids and prices to identify any
unusual activity.  The FERC has notified
Xcel Energy that it is investigating pricing and market-related issues.  Xcel Energy and other market participants
continue to work with MISO, the independent market monitor and the FERC to
resolve Day 2 market implementation issues such as dispatch methods and
settlement calculation details.  Xcel
Energy also intends to work with these parties to resolve any identified
issues.

 

New business processes, systems and internal controls over financial
reporting were planned and implemented by Xcel Energy and MISO during the
second quarter of 2005 to conduct business within the MISO Day 2 market.  Xcel Energy continues to validate these
changes and to review the energy costs and revenues determined by MISO.  Xcel Energy and other market participants
have disputed certain transactions.

 

MISO Long Term
Transmission Pricing - On Oct. 7, 2005, MISO
filed proposed tariff revisions that would allow MISO to regionalize the cost
of certain future high voltage transmission lines owned by specific
transmission owners but constructed pursuant to the MISO transmission expansion
plan.  The proposed tariffs reflect
stakeholder input to MISO.  MISO proposed
the tariff revisions to be effective on Feb. 4, 2006.  Xcel Energy generally supports the proposed
tariff revisions, which should encourage transmission construction by
regionalizing a share of the cost of projects providing regional benefits.  Comments on or protests to the proposed
tariff revisions were filed at FERC in late 2005.  In February 2006, the FERC issued an
order accepting the tariff revisions, subject to modifications and additional
procedures.  Xcel Energy cannot predict
the ultimate impact of the MISO tariff proposed at this time.

 

MISO/PJM SECA - On Nov. 18, 2004, FERC issued an
order approving portions of a plan providing for continued use of “license
plate” rates for the MISO/PJM region, but rejecting proposed transition
payments to compensate transmission owners for reductions in transmission
revenues.  FERC instead ordered the MISO
and PJM to file a Seams Elimination Charge Adjustment (SECA) transition
mechanism.  The replacement compliance
filings were effective Dec. 1, 2004. 
The FERC order eliminates any transition payments and the SECA filings
instead provide for both revenues and payments that net to approximately
$86,000 in revenues per month to NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin in 2005.

 

Various
parties sought rehearing of the Nov. 18, 2004 order and/or filed
objections to the Nov. 24, 2004 SECA compliance filings.  On Feb. 10, 2005, the FERC issued an
order accepting the SECA filings effective Dec. 1, 2004, subject to
refund, and set the proposals for hearings. 
The SECA proposals are now in hearings at the FERC.  Certain parties have proposed a regional
average transition charge, which could shift costs to NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin, effective Dec. 1, 2004. 
Xcel Energy has opposed these regionalized approaches.  The final FERC decision is expected to be
issued by the end of 2006.  Under the
FERC orders, the SECA transition charges are set to expire Mar. 31, 2006.

 

Pending and
Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings - MPUC

 

NSP-Minnesota Electric Rate Case –
In November 2005, NSP-Minnesota requested an electric rate increase of
$168 million or 8.05 percent.  This
increase was based on a requested 11 percent return on common equity, a
projected common equity ratio to total capitalization of 51.7 percent and a
projected electric rate base of $3.2 billion. 
On Dec. 15, 2005, the MPUC authorized an interim rate increase of
$147 million, subject to refund, which became effective on Jan. 1,
2006.  The anticipated procedural schedule is
as follows:

 

•      March 2nd
– Intervenor Direct Testimony

•      March 30th
– Rebuttal Testimony

•      April 13th
– Surrebuttal Testimony

 

13












 

•      April 20th
– April 28th – Evidentiary Hearings

•      May 24th
– Initial Briefs

•      June 6th
– Reply Briefs

•      July 6th
– Administrative Law Judge Report

•      September 5th
– MPUC Order

 

Renewable Transmission Cost Recovery — In 2002, NSP-Minnesota filed for MPUC
approval to establish an RCR adjustment mechanism to recover the costs of
transmission investments incurred to deliver renewable energy resources.  The RCR adjustment mechanism provides for
annual filings to set the RCR adjustment rates using updated transmission cost
information.  The MPUC approved the RCR
adjustment mechanism and the two-phase filing mechanism in April 2003.  In February 2004, the MPUC conditionally
approved the initial Phase 1 facility eligibility determination filing.  NSP-Minnesota then filed for approval to
recover annual additional transmission costs from May 2004 to December 2004,
which were approximately $6 million. The request was approved and the RCR was
implemented Dec. 1, 2004. 
NSP-Minnesota collected approximately $0.2 million in 2004.  NSP-Minnesota submitted a filing in February 2005
to determine the eligibility of additional transmission projects and to establish
the RCR factors for 2005, seeking recovery of $12.9 million of additional costs
in 2005.  The MPUC approved revised
factors by order dated Jan. 9, 2006, and NSP-Minnesota submitted its
compliance filing in late January 2006 for rates to be effective Mar. 1,
2006.  In Oct. 2005, NSP-Minnesota
revised the recoverable expense to $9.3 million, of which $5.4 million has been
recovered. Because of the pending Minnesota rate case, the RCR rates in effect
in 2006 will recover only the unrecovered 2005 costs of $3.9 million.  All 2006 costs are proposed to be recovered
in the Minnesota electric rate case discussed above.

 

MISO Cost Recovery —
On Dec. 18, 2004, NSP-Minnesota filed with the MPUC a petition to seek
recovery of the Minnesota jurisdictional portion of all net costs associated
with the implementation of the MISO Day 2 market through its FCA.  The MPUC issued an interim order in April 2005
allowing MISO Day 2 charges to be recovered through the NSP-Minnesota FCA
mechanism. In December 2005, the MPUC issued a second interim order
approving the recovery of certain MISO charges through the FCA mechanism but
requiring that additional charges either be recovered as part of a general rate
case or through an annual review process outside the fuel and purchased energy
cost recovery mechanism, and requiring refunds of non-FCA costs.  The December 2005 MPUC order also
suspended the refund obligation until such time as it could reconsider the
matter.  On Feb. 9, 2006, the MPUC
voted to reconsider its December 2005 order.  The MPUC on reconsideration determined that
parties be directed to determine which charges are appropriately in the FCA and
which are more appropriately established in base rates and report back to the
MPUC in 60 days; to grant deferred accounting treatment for costs ultimately
determined to be included in base rates for a period of 36 months, with
recovery of deferred amounts to be reviewed in a general rate case; and that
amounts collected to date through the FCA under the April and December 2005
interim orders are not subject to refund. 
As a result, NSP-Minnesota expects to have the opportunity to recover
(or seek to recover in a rate case) all of its MISO Day 2 costs.

 

In
March 2005, the PSCW issued an interim order allowing NSP-Wisconsin deferred
accounting treatment of MISO charges. 
However, the PSCW staff issued an interpretive memorandum in October 2005
asserting that certain MISO costs may not be recovered through the interim fuel
cost mechanism and may not be deferrable. 
NSP-Wisconsin and the other Wisconsin utilities contested staff’s
interpretation in their November comments to the PSCW.  To date, NSP-Wisconsin has deferred
approximately $5.7 million of MISO Day 2 costs as a regulatory asset.

 

Xcel
Energy also notified MISO that NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin may seek to
withdraw from MISO if rate recovery of Day 2 costs is not allowed.  Withdrawal would require FERC approval and
could require Xcel Energy to pay a withdrawal fee.

 

In addition, in March 2005, NSP-Minnesota filed petitions similar
to the December 2004 Minnesota filing with the NDPSC and the SDPUC
proposing changes to allow recovery of the applicable North Dakota and South
Dakota jurisdictional portions of the MISO Day 2 market costs.  The SDPUC approved the proposed tariff
changes effective April 1, 2005, as requested.  The NDPSC granted interim recovery through
the FCA beginning April 1, 2005, but similar to the decision of the MPUC,
conditioned the relief as being subject to refund until the merits of the case
are determined.  To date, the NDPSC has
conducted no further proceedings regarding the NSP-Minnesota filing.

 

Energy Legislation — In 2005, the
Minnesota Legislature passed and the Governor signed an Omnibus Energy Bill,
effective July 1, 2005.  Among other
things, the new law provides authority for the MPUC to approve rate rider
recovery for transmission investments that have been approved through a
certificate of need, the biennial transmission plan, or are associated with
compliance with the state’s renewable energy objective.  The statute provides that the rate rider may
include recovery of the revenue requirement associated with qualifying
projects, including a current return on construction work in progress.  NSP-Minnesota is currently preparing a filing
to the MPUC for approval of a new tariff to implement this statute.

 

14












 

Capacity and Demand

 

Uninterrupted
system peak demand for the NSP System’s electric utility for each of the last
three years and the forecast for 2006, assuming normal weather, are listed
below.

 




 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  System Peak Demand (in MW)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2006 Forecast
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  NSP System
  
  
   
  
  
  8,868
  
  
   
  
  
  8,665
  
  
   
  
  
  9,212
  
  
   
  
  
  9,401
  
  
   
  
 




 

The
peak demand for the NSP System typically occurs in the summer. The 2005 uninterrupted
system peak demand for the NSP System occurred on June 23, 2005.

 

Energy Sources and Related Initiatives

 

NSP-Minnesota
expects to use existing electric generating stations; purchases from other
utilities, independent power producers and power marketers; demand-side
management options; and phased expansion of existing generation at select power
plants to meet its system capacity requirements.

 

Purchased Power — NSP-Minnesota has contractual arrangements
to purchase power from other utilities and nonregulated energy suppliers.
Capacity, typically measured in KW or MW, is the measure of the rate at which a
particular generating source produces electricity. Energy, typically measured
in Kwh or Mwh, is a measure of the amount of electricity produced from a
particular generating source over a period of time. Long-term purchase power
contracts typically require a periodic payment to secure the capacity from a
particular generating source and a charge for the associated energy actually
purchased from such generating source.

 

NSP-Minnesota
also makes short-term firm and non-firm purchases to replace generation from
company-owned units that are unavailable due to maintenance and unplanned
outages, to provide the utility’s reserve obligation, to obtain energy at a
lower cost than that which could be produced by other resource options,
including company-owned generation and/or long-term purchase power contracts,
and for various other operating requirements.

 

On Dec. 27,
2005, Excelsior Energy Inc. (Excelsior), an independent energy developer, filed
a petition with the MPUC seeking to compel NSP-Minnesota to enter into a power
purchase agreement related to its proposed integrated gasification,
combined-cycle power plant (Mesaba project) that would be located in northern
Minnesota.  The petition requested the
MPUC to determine that the proposed purchase is in the public interest and that
the technology proposed for the Mesaba Project, which Excelsior claims is a “clean
energy technology” under Minnesota law, is or is likely to be a least-cost
resource pursuant to Minnesota law. 
NSP-Minnesota has not been provided a full, unredacted copy of the
proposed power purchase agreement and has not entered into the power purchase agreement
with Excelsior.  The petition seeks to
compel NSP-Minnesota to purchase at least 13 percent of NSP-Minnesota’s
electric energy provided to retail customers from the Mesaba Project, which
Excelsior claims would require two units of its Mesaba Project each proposed at
603 MW.  Excelsior’s filing asserts much
of its proposal is confidential under the MPUC’s rules, including the pricing
and other economic terms.  NSP-Minnesota
is seeking access to the confidential information.  The MPUC asked for comments on the process
for the filing and comments on the ability to obtain information filed under
confidential protection.  NSP-Minnesota
has asked the MPUC to first resolve issues surrounding the confidential
information, then to address legal issues surrounding the proposal and after
resolution of those issues, to consider the proposal in light of its legal
conclusions.

 

NSP System Resource Plan — On Nov. 1, 2004, NSP-Minnesota filed
its 2004 resource plan with the MPUC. 
The resource plan projects a need for an additional 3,100 MW of
electricity resources during the next 15 years, based on an anticipated growth
in demand of 1.61 percent annually, or approximately 170 MW per year, during
the period.  The resource plan:

 

•      identifies the need for adding up to 1,125 MW
of new base-load electricity generation by 2015;

•      recommends a new resource acquisition process
that includes multiple options for consideration, including generation built by
NSP-Minnesota;

•      recommends increasing energy-saving goals for
demand-side energy management programs by nearly 17 percent;

•      recommends extending the operating licenses
for the Prairie Island and Monticello nuclear plants by 20 years (on Jan. 18,
2005, NSP-Minnesota applied for a certificate of need in Minnesota for a dry
spent-fuel storage facility at the Monticello plant, and plans to file an
application with the federal government to extend the Monticello plant’s

 

15












 

license and to make similar filings for the Prairie Island plant in
2008);

•      assumes nearly 1,700 MW of wind power with
most developed on NSP-Minnesota’s system;

•      identifies the need for obtaining up to 550
MW of new power resources for peak usage times by 2015 depending on the amount
and timing of any base-load resources acquired; and

•      cites the importance of ensuring that
sufficient transmission resources are available to move electricity from
generation sources.

 

On
Aug. 1, 2005, the Minnesota Department of Commerce filed comments that
Xcel Energy had overestimated its forecast and that there was no need for new
resources until 2015.  Other parties
filed various comments relating to the environmental impacts of the plan, the
use of renewable fuels, the need to construct a 600 MW integrated gasification
combined-cycle facility in Northern Minnesota, and NSP-Minnesota’s monitoring
of the Northern Flood Agreement between the Province of Manitoba and various
Canadian First Nations.

 

On
Nov. 23, 2005, Xcel Energy filed updated analysis and replies with the
MPUC.  The updated analysis supported
Xcel Energy’s original forecast and identified upgrades to certain existing
facilities that could provide cost-effective base load energy to Xcel Energy’s
customers and defer the need for new base load until 2015.  The filing also detailed Xcel Energy’s
examination of new base load options.  On
the same day, the Minnesota Department of Commerce filed a proposal to select
base load resources through a certificate of need process rather than a bidding
process.  Xcel Energy expects the MPUC to
make a final ruling on the Resource Plan and the bidding process in the first
half of 2006.

 

NSP-Minnesota Transmission Certificates of
Need — In December 2001,
NSP-Minnesota proposed construction of various transmission system upgrades to
provide transmission outlet capacity for up to 825 MW of renewable energy
generation (wind and biomass) being constructed in southwest and western
Minnesota.  In March 2003, the MPUC
granted four certificates of need to NSP-Minnesota, thereby approving
construction, subject to certain conditions. The initial projected cost of the
transmission upgrades was approximately $160 million.  The MEQB granted a routing permit for the
first major transmission facilities in the development program in 2004.  The remaining route permit proceedings were
completed in 2005.  In 2003, the MPUC also approved an RCR
adjustment that allows NSP-Minnesota to recover the revenue requirements
associated with certain transmission investments associated with delivery of
renewable energy resources through an automatic adjustment mechanism that
started in 2004.  See the Pending and
Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings — MPUC, Renewable Transmission Cost
Recovery section for further discussion.

 

Purchased Transmission Services —NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have
contractual arrangements with MISO to deliver power and energy to NSP System
native load customers.  Point-to-point
transmission services typically include a charge for the specific amount of
transmission capacity being reserved. Network transmission services include a
charge based on the transmission customer’s monthly peak demand.

 

Nuclear Power Operations and Waste Disposal
- - NSP-Minnesota
owns two nuclear generating plants: the Monticello plant and the Prairie Island
plant. See additional discussion regarding the nuclear generating plants at
Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

Nuclear
power plant operation produces gaseous, liquid and solid radioactive wastes.
The discharge and handling of such wastes are controlled by federal
regulation.  High-level radioactive
wastes primarily include used nuclear fuel. Low-level radioactive waste
consists primarily of demineralizer resins, paper, protective clothing, rags,
tools and equipment that have become contaminated through use in the plant.

 

Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal — Federal law places responsibility on each
state for disposal of its low-level radioactive waste generated within its
borders. Low-level radioactive waste from NSP-Minnesota’s Monticello and
Prairie Island nuclear plants is currently disposed at the Barnwell facility
located in South Carolina (all classes of low-level waste) and at the Clive
facility located in Utah (class A low-level substance only). Chem Nuclear is
the owner and operator of the Barnwell facility, which has been given
authorization by South Carolina to accept low-level radioactive waste from
states that are not a member of South Carolina’s state compact.  Envirocare, Inc. operates the Clive
facility.  NSP-Minnesota has an annual
contract with Barnwell, but is also able to utilize the Envirocare facility
through various low-level waste processors. 
NSP-Minnesota has low-level storage capacity available on-site at
Prairie Island and Monticello that would allow both plants to continue to
operate until the end of their current licensed lives, if off-site low-level
disposal facilities were not available to NSP-Minnesota.

 

High-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal — The federal government has the responsibility
to dispose of, or permanently store, domestic spent nuclear fuel and other
high-level radioactive wastes. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act requires the DOE to

 

16












 

implement
a program for nuclear high level waste management. This includes the siting,
licensing, construction and operation of a repository for domestically produced
spent nuclear fuel from civilian nuclear power reactors and other high-level
radioactive wastes at a permanent Federal storage or disposal facility. To
date, the DOE has not accepted any of NSP-Minnesota’s spent nuclear fuel.  See Item 3 — Legal Proceedings and Note 15 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this matter.

 

NSP-Minnesota
has on-site storage for spent nuclear fuel at its Monticello and Prairie Island
nuclear plants. In 1993, the Prairie Island plant was licensed by the federal
NRC to store up to 48 casks of spent fuel at the plant. In 1994, the Minnesota
Legislature adopted a limit on dry cask storage of 17 casks for the entire
state.  On May 29, 2003, the
Minnesota Legislature enacted revised legislation that will allow NSP-Minnesota
to continue to operate the facility and store spent fuel there until its
current licenses with the NRC expire in 2013 and 2014. The legislation
transfers the primary authority concerning future spent-fuel storage issues
from the state Legislature to the MPUC. It also allows for additional storage
without the requirement of an affirmative vote from the state Legislature, if
the NRC extends the licenses of the Prairie Island and Monticello plants and
the MPUC grants a certificate of need for such additional storage. It is
estimated that operation through the end of the current license will require 12
additional storage casks to be stored at the plant, for a total of 29 casks.  As of Dec. 31, 2005, there were 20 casks
loaded and stored at the Prairie Island plant. See Note 15 in the Consolidated
Financial Statements for further discussion of the matter.

 

Visual Inspections — Required visual inspections have been
performed on the Prairie Island Unit 2 upper and lower reactor vessel heads,
and the Unit 1 upper head. Reactor vessel heads for both units were found to be
in compliance with all NRC requirements. The reactor vessel upper head for
Prairie Island Unit 2 was replaced during the 2005 refueling outage, and Xcel
Energy expects to replace the reactor vessel upper head for Prairie Island Unit
1 in early 2006.

 

Private Fuel Storage (PFS)
— NSP-Minnesota
is part of a consortium of private parties working to establish a private
facility for interim storage of spent nuclear fuel. In 1997, PFS filed a
license application with the NRC for a temporary storage site for spent nuclear
fuel on the Skull Valley Indian Reservation in Utah. The NRC license review
process includes formal evidentiary hearings before the ASLB and opportunities
for public input. On Sept. 9, 2005, the NRC Commissioners directed the NRC
staff to issue the license for PFS, ending the 8-year effort to gain a license
for the site.  In December 2005, the
U.S. Supreme Court denied Utah’s petition for a writ of certiorari to hear an
appeal of a lower court’s ruling on a series of state statutes aimed at
blocking the storage and transportation of spent fuel to PFS. Also in December 2005,
NSP-Minnesota forwarded a letter to Senator Hatch (UT) indicating that it would
hold in abeyance future investments in the construction of PFS as long as there
is apparent and continuing progress in federally sponsored initiatives for
storage, reuse, and/or disposal for the nation’s spent nuclear fuel.

 

Prairie Island Steam Generator Replacement — In the fall of 2004, NSP-Minnesota spent
approximately $132 million to successfully replace the Prairie Island Unit 1
steam generators.  The Unit 2 steam
generators have not yet been replaced, but received the required inspections
during the scheduled 2005 outage. Based on current rates of degradation and
available repair processes, NSP-Minnesota plans to replace these steam
generators in the 2013 regular refueling outage. Due to the potential shortages
in the world markets for materials and shop capabilities, NSP-Minnesota expects
to begin the approval process in 2006 for long-lead time materials.

 

NSP-Minnesota Nuclear Plant Re-licensing— Monticello’s current 40-year
license expires in 2010, and Prairie Island’s licenses for its two units expire
in 2013 and 2014.  In March 2005,
NSP-Minnesota filed its application with the NRC for an operating license
extension for Monticello of up to 20 years. 
NSP-Minnesota filed its application with the MPUC for Monticello in January 2005
seeking a certificate of need for dry spent fuel storage. Decisions by both the
federal and state agencies regarding Monticello re-licensing are expected in
early 2007. Prairie Island has initiated the necessary plant assessments and
aging analysis to support submittal of similar applications to the NRC and
Minnesota, currently planned for submittal in early 2008.

 

Nuclear Management Co. (NMC) — During 1999,
NSP-Minnesota, Wisconsin Electric Power Co., Wisconsin Public Service
Corporation (WPS) and Alliant Energy Corp. established NMC. The Consumers Power
subsidiary of CMS Energy Corp. joined the NMC during 2000.

 

NMC
manages the operations and maintenance at the plants, and is responsible for
physical security. NMC’s responsibilities also include oversight of on-site dry
storage facilities for used nuclear fuel at the Prairie Island nuclear plant.
Utility plant owners, including NSP-Minnesota, continue to own the plants,
control all energy produced by the plants, and retain responsibility for nuclear
liability insurance and decommissioning costs.

 

In
2005 and 2006, as a result of selling their nuclear plants, WPS and Alliant
Energy ended their participation in NMC. 
In December 2005, Consumer Power announced its intent to sell its
nuclear plant, which will leave NSP-Minnesota and Wisconsin Electric Power Co.
as the remaining members of the NMC, with a combined total of 3 sites and 5
reactors. NMC

 

17












 

is
in the process of identifying and marketing its services to other potential
nuclear utility candidates to replace the departing members.

 

For
further discussion of nuclear issues, see Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

 

Fuel Supply and Costs

 

The
following table shows the delivered cost per MMBtu of each significant category
of fuel consumed for electric generation, the percentage of total fuel
requirements represented by each category of fuel and the total weighted
average cost of all fuels during such years.

 




 
  
  NSP System
  
  
   
  
  
  Coal*
  
  
   
  
  
  Nuclear
  
  
   
  
  
  Natural Gas
  
  
   
  
  
  Average Fuel
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Generating Plants
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
  
  Percent
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
  
  Percent
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
  
  Percent
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1.04
  
  
   
  
  
  60
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.46
  
  
   
  
  
  36
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  8.32
  
  
   
  
  
  3
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  1.11
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.99
  
  
   
  
  
  61
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.44
  
  
   
  
  
  37
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  6.48
  
  
   
  
  
  2
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.92
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.99
  
  
   
  
  
  61
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.43
  
  
   
  
  
  36
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  5.80
  
  
   
  
  
  2
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.90
  
  
   
  
 




 



*
Includes refuse-derived fuel and wood

 

See additional discussion of fuel supply and costs under Factors
Affecting Results of Continuing Operations in Management’s Discussion and
Analysis under Item 7.

 

Fuel Sources — Coal inventory levels may vary widely among
plants.  However, the NSP System normally
maintains no less than 30 days of coal inventory at each plant site.  Estimated coal requirements at NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin’s major coal-fired generating plants are approximately 13.3
million tons per year. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have long-term contracts
providing for the delivery of up to 99 percent of 2006 coal requirements. Coal
delivery may be subject to short-term interruptions or reductions due to
transportation problems, weather, and availability of equipment.  See Management’s Discussion and Analysis for
further discussion of coal delivery disruptions.

 

NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin expect that all of the coal burned in 2006 will have an average
sulfur content of less than 0.75 percent. 
The NSP System has contracts for a maximum of 35.8 million tons of
low-sulfur coal for the next 3 years. 
The contracts are with 1 Montana coal supplier, 3 Wyoming suppliers and
1 Minnesota oil refinery, with expiration dates in 2006 and 2007.

 

To
operate NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear generating plants, NSP-Minnesota secures
contracts for uranium concentrates, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment and
fuel fabrication. The contract strategy involves a portfolio of spot purchases
and medium- and long-term contracts for uranium, conversion and enrichment.

 

•      Current nuclear fuel supply contracts cover 100
percent of uranium requirements through 2006 and 91.8 percent of the 2007
requirements with no coverage of requirements for 2008 and beyond. Contracts
with additional uranium concentrates suppliers are currently in various stages
of negotiations that are expected to provide a portion of the requirements
through 2016.

•      Current contracts for conversion services
requirements cover 100 percent of the requirements for 2006 and 53 percent for 2007
with no current coverage of requirements for 2011 and beyond. A contract with
an additional conversion services supplier is nearing completion that is
expected to provide additional coverage for 2007 through 2011.

•      Current enrichment services contracts cover 100
percent of the 2006 requirements. Approximately 30 percent of the 2007 through
2010 requirements are currently covered with no coverage of requirements for
2011 and beyond. These contracts expire at varying times between 2006 and 2010.
Contracts with additional enrichment services suppliers are currently in
various stages of negotiation that are expected to supply additional coverage
from 2007 through 2010.

•      Fuel fabrication for Monticello is covered
through 2010.  Fuel fabrication is 100
percent committed for Prairie Island Unit 1 through 2006 and Prairie Island
Unit 2 is covered for the 2006 fuel fabrication services under an amendment
signed in 2005. NSP-Minnesota and NMC are currently in negotiations with
Westinghouse to pursue fuel fabrication for Prairie Island plant needs beyond
the current fuel contracts.

 

NSP-Minnesota
expects sufficient uranium, conversion and enrichment to be available for the
total fuel requirements of its nuclear generating plants. Contracts for
additional uranium and enrichment services are currently being negotiated that
would provide additional supply requirements through 2016 for uranium and 2010
for enrichment services.

 

The NSP System uses both firm and interruptible natural gas and standby
oil in combustion turbines and certain boilers. 
Natural gas supplies for power plants are procured under short-,
intermediate- and long-term contracts which expire in various years from 2006
through 2027 in order to provide an adequate supply of fuel.  Certain natural gas supply and transportation
agreements include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified
volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2005, NSP-Minnesota’s commitments
related to these contracts were approximately $127 million.  The NSP System has current fuel oil inventory
adequate to meet anticipated 2006 requirements and also has access to the spot
market to buy more oil, if needed.

 

18












 

Commodity Marketing Operations

 

NSP-Minnesota
conducts various wholesale marketing operations, including the purchase and
sale of electric capacity, energy and energy related products. Participation in
short-term wholesale energy markets provides market intelligence and
information that supports the energy management of NSP-Minnesota.  NSP-Minnesota uses physical and financial
instruments to minimize commodity price and credit risk and hedge supplies and
purchases. Engaging in short-term sales and purchase commitments results in an
efficient use of our plants and the capturing of additional margins from
non-traditional customers. NSP-Minnesota also uses these marketing operations
to capture arbitrage opportunities created by regional pricing differentials,
supply and demand imbalances and changes in fuel prices.  See additional discussion under Item 7A —
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

 

NSP-Wisconsin

 

Ratemaking Principles

 

Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of
Jurisdiction —
Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Wisconsin’s operations are
regulated by the PSCW and the MPSC, within their respective states.  In addition, each of the state commissions
certifies the need for new generating plants and electric transmission lines to
be located within the respective states before the facilities may be sited and
built.  NSP-Wisconsin is subject to the
jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, accounting
practices, wholesale sales for resale and the transmission of electricity in
interstate commerce. NSP-Wisconsin has received authorization from the FERC to
make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices (see market-based rate
authority discussion).

 

The
PSCW has a biennial base-rate filing requirement.  By June of each odd-numbered year,
NSP-Wisconsin must submit a rate filing for the test year beginning the
following January. The filing procedure and review generally allow the PSCW
sufficient time to issue an order and implement new base rates effective with
the start of the test year.

 

Fuel and Purchased Energy Cost Recovery
Mechanisms —
NSP-Wisconsin does not have an automatic electric fuel adjustment clause for
Wisconsin retail customers.  Instead, it
has a procedure that compares actual monthly and anticipated annual fuel costs
with those costs that were included in the latest retail electric rates. If the
comparison results in a difference of 2 percent above base rates or 0.5 percent
below, the PSCW may hold hearings limited to fuel costs and revise rates upward
or downward. Any revised rates would remain in effect until the next rate
change. The adjustment approved is calculated on an annual basis, but applied
prospectively.  NSP-Wisconsin’s wholesale
electric rate schedules provide for adjustments to billings and revenues for
changes in the cost of fuel and purchased energy.

 

NSP-Wisconsin’s
retail electric rate schedules for Michigan customers include power supply cost
recovery factors, which are based on 12-month projections.  After each 12-month period, a reconciliation
is submitted whereby over-collections are refunded and any under-collections
are collected from the customers over the subsequent 12-month period.

 

Pending and Recently
Concluded Regulatory Proceedings - FERC

 

MISO — See the discussion of the MISO activity
under NSP-Minnesota Pending and Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings.

 

Pending and Recently
Concluded Regulatory Proceedings - PSCW

 

MISO Cost Recovery - On Mar. 29, 2005, NSP-Wisconsin
received an order from the PSCW granting its request to defer the costs and
benefits attributable to the start-up of the MISO Day 2 energy market.  NSP-Wisconsin also received an order granting
its request to record energy market transactions on a net basis. The netting of
transactions is consistent with the approach envisioned by the FERC in
approving the transmission and energy markets tariff and is consistent with
generally accepted accounting principles. 
On Sept. 22, 2005, the PSCW opened an investigation to obtain
information from interested persons related to MISO policy development that is
beneficial to ratepayers and that protects the public interest.  On Oct. 18, 2005, the PSCW solicited
comments on the PSCW staff proposal regarding rate and accounting treatment of
MISO revenues and costs, as well as a request to escrow MISO Day 2 energy
market costs until 2008.  On Nov. 17,
2005, NSP-Wisconsin and other Wisconsin utilities filed comments on the PSCW
staff proposal and clarified the utilities’ position on their interpretation of
the previously granted deferral order. 
NSP-Wisconsin will continue to work with the PSCW and other utilities to
address the longer-term issue related to MISO policies.

 

19












 

NSP-Wisconsin 2005 Fuel Cost Recovery -
On April 22, 2005, NSP-Wisconsin filed an application with the PSCW to
increase electric rates by $10 million, or 2.7 percent, annually to provide for
recovery of forecasted increased costs of fuel and purchased power over the
balance of 2005.  The March 2005
actual fuel costs were approximately 13 percent higher than authorized recovery
in current base rates, and the forecast for the remainder of 2005 showed costs
outside the previously established annual range by 9.6 percent.  On May 18, 2005, the PSCW issued an
order approving interim rates at the level requested, effective May 19,
2005.  This rate increase generated an
estimated $6.5 million in additional revenue for NSP-Wisconsin in 2005.  Under the provisions of the Wisconsin fuel
rules, any difference between interim rates and final rates is subject to
refund.  On Sept. 28, 2005, the PSCW
issued a final order approving an increase of $11.6 million, or 3.1 percent
annually.  Because the final rates were
slightly higher than interim rates authorized in May 2005, no refund was
necessary.  With an effective date of Oct. 1,
2005, final rates collected approximately $0.4 million in incremental revenue,
as compared to interim rates, over the last three months of 2005.

 

On Oct. 14,
2005, NSP-Wisconsin filed an application with the PSCW to increase the amount
of the authorized fuel and purchased power surcharge by $8.9 million or 2.3
percent on an annual basis.  This
additional request was due to dramatic increases in the cost of natural gas and
purchased power since the surcharge amount was set in mid-August.  September 2005 actual fuel costs were
approximately 38 percent higher than authorized recovery in current rates, and
the forecast for the remainder of 2005 showed costs outside the annual range by
7.5 percent.  A PSCW order authorizing an
increase in the amount of the surcharge on an interim basis, subject to refund,
was issued Nov. 10, 2005, and NSP-Wisconsin collected approximately $1.3
million in additional revenue over the remainder of 2005.  The surcharge was discontinued with the
implementation of new 2006 base rates, which went into effect Jan. 9,
2006.  A final hearing in the 2005 fuel
surcharge case was held Feb. 10, 2006, to determine whether any refund of
interim rates is necessary. 
NSP-Wisconsin and PSCW staff both filed testimony indicating that actual
fuel costs for the period in question exceeded levels assumed in setting
interim rates, and no refund is necessary. 
A final PSCW decision is expected in the first quarter of 2006.

 

NSP-Wisconsin 2006
General Rate Case – In 2005, NSP-Wisconsin, requested an electric revenue increase of
$58.3 million and a natural gas revenue increase of $8.1 million, based on a
2006 test year, an 11.9 percent return on equity and a common equity ratio of
56.32 percent.  On Jan. 5, 2006, the
PSCW approved an electric revenue increase of $43.4 million and a natural gas
revenue increase of $3.9 million, based on an 11.0 percent return on equity and
a 54-percent common equity ratio target. 
The new rates were effective Jan. 9, 2006.  The order authorized the deferral of an
additional $6.5 million in costs related to nuclear decommissioning and
manufactured gas plant site clean up for recovery in the next rate case.  The order also prohibits NSP-Wisconsin from
paying dividends above $42.7 million, if its actual calendar year average
common equity ratio is or will fall below 54.03 percent.  It also imposes an asymmetrical electric fuel
clause bandwidth of positive 2 percent to negative 0.5 percent outside of which
NSP-Wisconsin would be permitted to request or be required to change rates.

 

Capacity and Demand

 

NSP-Wisconsin operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  See discussion of the system capacity and demand
under NSP-Minnesota Capacity and Demand discussed previously.

 

Energy Sources and Related Initiatives

 

NSP-Wisconsin
operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  See a discussion of the system energy sources
under NSP-Minnesota Energy Sources and Related Initiatives discussed
previously.

 

Fuel Supply and Costs

 

NSP-Wisconsin
operates an integrated system with NSP-Minnesota.  See a discussion of the system energy sources
under NSP-Minnesota Fuel Supply and Costs discussed previously.

 

PSCo

 

Ratemaking Principles

 

Summary of
Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction — PSCo is
regulated by the CPUC with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services
and issuance of securities.  PSCo is
regulated by the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations,
accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale and the transmission of
electricity in interstate commerce.

 

Fuel, Purchased Energy and Conservation
Cost Recovery Mechanisms — PSCo has several retail adjustment clauses that recover fuel,
purchased energy and resource costs:

 

20












 

•      Electric Commodity
Adjustment (ECA) — The ECA,
effective Jan. 1, 2004, is an incentive adjustment mechanism that compares
actual fuel and purchased energy expense in a calendar year to a benchmark
formula. The ECA also provides for an $11.25 million cap on any cost sharing
over or under an allowed ECA formula rate. 
The formula rate is revised annually and collected or refunded in the
following year, if necessary.  The
current ECA mechanism will expire Jan. 1, 2007.

 

•      Purchased Capacity Cost
Adjustment (PCCA) — The
PCCA, which became effective June 1, 2004, allows for recovery of
purchased capacity payments to certain power suppliers under specifically
identified power purchase agreements that are not included in the determination
of PSCo’s base electric rates or other recovery mechanisms.  The PCCA will expire on Dec. 31,
2006.  Purchased capacity costs both from
contracts included within the PCCA and from contracts not included within the
PCCA are expected to be eligible for recovery through base rates, when PSCo
files its next general rate case.

 

•      Steam Cost Adjustment (SCA)
— The SCA allows PSCo to
recover the difference between its actual cost of fuel and the amount of these
costs recovered under its base steam service rates. The SCA rate is revised at
least annually to coincide with changes in fuel costs.

 

•      Air-Quality Improvement
Rider (AQIR) — The AQIR
recovers, over a 15-year period, the incremental cost (including fuel and
purchased energy) incurred by PSCo as a result of a voluntary plan to reduce
emissions and improve air quality in the Denver metro area.

 

•      Demand-Side Management Cost
Adjustment (DSMCA) — The
DSMCA clause currently permits PSCo to recover DSM costs over five years while
non-labor incremental expenses and carrying costs associated with deferred DSM
costs are recovered on an annual basis. PSCo also has a low-income energy
assistance program. The costs of this energy conservation and weatherization
program for low-income customers are recovered through the DSMCA.

 

PSCo
recovers fuel and purchased energy costs from its wholesale customers through a
fuel cost adjustment clause accepted for filing by the FERC.

 

Performance-Based Regulation and Quality of
Service Requirements — PSCo currently operates under an electric and natural gas PBRP.  The major components of this regulatory plan
include:

 

•      an
annual electric earnings test for 2004 through 2006 with the sharing between
customers and shareholders of earnings in excess of a return on equity for
electric operations of 10.75 percent;

 

•      an
electric QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not
achieve certain performance targets relating to electric reliability and
customer service through 2006; and

 

•      a natural gas QSP that provides for bill
credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance targets
relating to natural gas leak repair time and customer service through 2007.

 

PSCo
regularly monitors and records as necessary an estimated customer refund
obligation under the PBRP. In April of each year following the measurement
period, PSCo files its proposed rate adjustment under the PBRP. The CPUC
conducts proceedings to review and approve these rate adjustments annually.

 

•      In 2003, PSCo did not achieve the performance
targets for the QSP electric service unavailability measure or the customer
complaint measure.  Targets were met for
the natural gas QSP.  There was no
sharing of earnings for 2003, as PSCo established new rates in its general rate
case.

 

•      In 2004, PSCo did not earn a return on equity
in excess of 10.75 percent, so no refund liability was recorded.  PSCo did not achieve the 2004 performance
targets for the electric service unavailability measure, creating a bill credit
obligation for 2004 and increasing the maximum bill credit obligation for
subsequent years’ performance.  Targets
were met for the natural gas QSP.

 

•      In 2005, PSCo does not anticipate earning a
return on equity in excess of 10.75 percent and did not record a refund
liability.  QSP results will be filed
with the CPUC in April 2006.  An
estimated customer refund obligation under the electric QSP plan was recorded
in 2005 related to the electric service unavailability measure.  No refund under the natural gas QSP is
anticipated. See further discussion of the QSP below.

 

21












 

Pending
and Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings - FERC

 

PSCo
and SPS FERC Transmission Rate Case — On Sept. 2, 2004, Xcel Energy filed on
behalf of PSCo and SPS an application to increase wholesale transmission
service and ancillary service rates within the Xcel Energy joint open access
transmission tariff (OATT).  PSCo and SPS
requested an increase in annual transmission service and ancillary services
revenues of $6.1 million.  As a result of
a settlement with certain PSCo wholesale power customers in 2003, their power
sales rates would be reduced by $1.4 million. 
The net increase in annual revenues proposed was $4.7 million, of which
$3.0 million is attributable to PSCo. 
The FERC suspended the filing and delayed the effective date of the
proposed increase to June 1, 2005.  The interim rates went into effect on June 1,
2005, subject to refund.  On Feb. 6,
2006, the parties in the proceeding submitted an uncontested offer of
settlement that contains a formula rate for PSCo, a 10.5 percent rate of return
on common equity, and the phased inclusion of PSCo’s 345 KV tie line costs in
wholesale transmission service rates.  The settlement results in a $1.6 million rate
increase for PSCo effective June 2005. 
The offer of settlement is pending FERC approval.

 

California Refund
Proceeding — A
number of proceedings are pending before the FERC relating to the price of
sales into the California electricity markets from May 1, 2000 through June 20,
2001.  PSCo supplied energy to
these markets during this period and has been an active participant in the
proceedings.  In September 2005, PSCo reached an agreement with respect to these
proceedings with a group of California entities including: San Diego Gas &
Electric Company, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, Southern California Edison
Company, the California Department of Water Resources, the California
Electricity Oversight Board, the California Public Utilities Commission and the
California Attorney General.  In December 2005,
the FERC approved the settlement without condition for the period of Jan. 1,
2000 through June 20, 2001.  PSCo
will pay approximately $5.5 million in cash and assign $1.8 million in accounts
receivable from the California Independent System Operator and the California
Power Exchange to the settling participants. In 2004, PSCo reserved
approximately $7 million related to this proceeding.  The settlement, which includes no
acknowledgment of wrongdoing by PSCo, avoids further costly litigation and
resolves all claims by PSCo against the settling participants and by the
settling participants against PSCo. 
While accounting for approximately 90 percent of purchases in the
California markets, the California utilities were not the only purchasers in
those markets.  However, the settlement
makes provision for other purchasers to opt into the settlement.  We do not expect a material financial impact
as resolution is reached with the non-settling parties.

 

Pacific Northwest FERC Refund Proceeding — In July 2001, the FERC ordered a
preliminary hearing to determine whether there may have been unjust and
unreasonable charges for spot market bilateral sales in the Pacific Northwest
for the period Dec. 25, 2000 through June 20, 2001. PSCo supplied
energy to the Pacific Northwest markets during this period and has been an
active participant in the hearings. In September 2001, the presiding ALJ
concluded that prices in the Pacific Northwest during the referenced period
were the result of a number of factors, including the shortage of supply,
excess demand, drought and increased natural gas prices. Under these
circumstances the ALJ concluded that the prices in the Pacific Northwest markets
were not unreasonable or unjust and no refunds should be ordered. Subsequent to
the ruling the FERC has allowed the parties to request additional evidence
regarding the use of certain strategies and how they may have impacted the
markets in the Pacific Northwest markets. For the referenced period, parties
have claimed that the total amount of transactions with PSCo subject to refund
are $34 million.

 

On June 25, 2003, the FERC issued an order
terminating the proceeding without ordering further proceedings.  On Nov. 10, 2003, in response to
requests for rehearing, FERC reaffirmed this ruling to terminate the proceeding
without refunds.  Certain purchasers have
filed appeals of the FERC’s orders in this proceeding.

 

FERC
OMOI Compliance Audit — On October 28, 2004,
the OMOI sent a letter to Xcel Energy stating that OMOI had initiated a routine
audit of PSCo compliance with various FERC regulations, including PSCo’s OATT,
FERC’s Order No. 889 standards of conduct rules and PSCo’s code of
conduct for transactions in power and non-power goods with affiliates with
market-based rates.  Similar compliance
audits of other utilities have resulted in compliance orders and, in certain
cases, civil penalties.  On November 28,
2005, FERC issued an order approving an audit report that recommended certain
operational changes but imposed no civil penalties.

 

Pending and Recently
Concluded Regulatory Proceedings - CPUC

 

Tie Line Cost
Recovery - On Sept. 20, 2001, the CPUC ruled that
only 50 percent of the total cost of the high voltage direct current (HVDC)
converter constructed by PSCo in Lamar, Colorado would be allowed in rate
base.  This facility is part of the 345
KV tie line transmission facilities connecting the PSCo and SPS systems.  The CPUC decision resulted in a reduction of
potential PSCo rate base of approximately $16.7 million.  On April 7, 2005, PSCo filed an
application with the CPUC proposing a mechanism that would leave half of the
HVDC facility as a non-rate-base asset, but that would generate revenue

 

22












 

to recover the cost of the non-rate-base asset on a pay-as-you-go
basis.  The proposal would involve
allocating half of any energy or fuel cost savings derived from buying
electricity through the tie line or making sales through the tie line.  Alternatively, PSCo stated that it would not
object to the entire HVDC facility being placed in rate base.  A hearing examiner for the CPUC issued a
recommended decision on Nov. 16, 2005, that reasoned that 100 percent of
the HVDC converter be placed in rate base. 
The CPUC acted on the recommended decision in February 2006 with
generally favorable results.

 

Quality of Service
Plan —
The PSCo QSP provides for bill credits to Colorado retail customers, if PSCo
does not achieve certain operational performance targets. During the second
quarter of 2005, PSCo filed its calendar year 2004 operating performance
results for electric service unavailability, phone response time, customer
complaints, accurate meter reading and natural gas leak repair time
measures.  PSCo did not achieve the 2004
performance targets for the electric service unavailability measure.  The CPUC staff and the OCC disputed the performance
results.  The parties agreed PSCo did not
achieve the 2004 performance targets for the electric service unavailability
measure as filed, creating a bill credit obligation for 2004 of $5.6
million.  Additionally, the agreement
provides that PSCo will invest an additional $11 million in 2006 toward
improving reliability, and PSCo will not be required to pay any bill credits
that may be owed for 2006 performance results for electric service
unavailability.  For 2005, PSCo has
evaluated its performance under the QSP and has recorded a liability of $13.6
million.  Under the electric QSP, the
estimated maximum potential bill credit obligation for calendar 2005
performance is approximately $16.8 million, assuming none of the performance
targets are met.  The maximum potential
bill credit obligation for the same period related to permanent natural gas
leak repair and natural gas meter reading errors is approximately $1.6 million.

 

Capacity and Demand

 

Uninterrupted
system peak demand for PSCo’s electric utility for each of the last three years
and the forecast for 2006, assuming normal weather, are listed below.

 




 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  System Peak Demand (in MW)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2006 Forecast
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  PSCo
  
  
   
  
  
  6,419
  
  
   
  
  
  6,483
  
  
   
  
  
  6,975
  
  
   
  
  
  6,751
  
  
   
  
 




 

The
peak demand for PSCo’s system typically occurs in the summer.  The 2005 uninterrupted system peak demand for
PSCo occurred on July 21, 2005.

 

Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives

 

PSCo
expects to meet its system capacity requirements through existing electric
generating stations; purchases from other utilities, independent power
producers and power marketers; demand-side management options and phased
expansion of existing generation at select power plants.

 

Purchased Power — PSCo has contractual arrangements to
purchase power from other utilities and nonregulated energy suppliers.  Capacity, typically measured in KW or MW, is
the measure of the rate at which a particular generating source produces
electricity.  Energy, typically measured
in Kwh or Mwh, is a measure of the amount of electricity produced from a
particular generating source over a period of time. Long-term purchase power
contracts typically require a periodic payment to secure the capacity from a
particular generating source and a charge for the associated energy actually
purchased from such generating source.

 

PSCo
also makes short-term firm and non-firm purchases to replace generation from
company-owned units that are unavailable due to maintenance and unplanned
outages, to provide the utility’s reserve obligation, to obtain energy at a
lower cost than that which could be produced by other resource options,
including company-owned generation and/or long-term purchase power contracts,
and for various other operating requirements.

 

PSCo Resource Plan — PSCo estimates it will purchase
approximately 36 percent of its total electric system energy needs for 2006 and
generate the remainder with PSCo-owned resources.  Additional capacity has been secured under
contract making additional energy auditable for purchase, if required. PSCo
currently has under contract or through owned generation, the resources
necessary to meet its anticipated 2006 load obligation.

 

On
April 30, 2004, PSCo filed a least-cost resource plan (LCP) with the
CPUC.  PSCo’s plan showed a need to
provide for approximately 3,600 MW of additional generation capacity through
2013 to meet load growth and replace expiring power purchase contracts. The LCP
proposed to meet these resource needs through a combination of utility built
generation, DSM, and power purchases.

 

23












 

On Dec. 17, 2004, the CPUC approved a settlement agreement between
PSCo and intervening parties concerning the LCP.  The CPUC approved PSCo’s plan to construct a
750-MW pulverized coal-fired unit at the existing Comanche power station
located near Pueblo, Colo.; transfer up to 250 MW of capacity ownership from
the 750-MW unit to Intermountain Rural Electric Association and Holy Cross
Energy; and install additional emission control equipment on the two existing
Comanche station units.  PSCo has
completed permitting the 750 MW Comanche 3 unit and began construction of the
facility in December 2005. In the approved settlement, PSCo also agreed to
invest in additional demand-side management and fund environmental programs in
Pueblo, Colo.

 

The approved settlement contains a confidential construction cost cap
for the Comanche 3 project (i.e., the new unit and the emission controls on
existing units 1 and 2) and a regulatory plan that authorizes PSCo to increase
the equity component of its capital structure up to 60 percent in its 2006 rate
case to offset the debt equivalent value of PSCo’s existing power purchase
contracts and to otherwise improve PSCo’s financial strength.  Depending upon PSCo’s senior unsecured debt
rating during the time of PSCo general rate cases, the approved settlement
permits PSCo to include various amounts of construction work in progress that
are associated with the Comanche 3 project in rate base without an offset for
allowance for funds used during construction.

 

PSCo has
signed agreements with IREA that define the respective rights and obligations
of PSCo and IREA in the transfer of capacity ownership in the Comanche 3
unit.  PSCo continues to discuss the
possibility of partnership arrangements with Holy Cross Energy.

 

PSCo has
received the following permits or authorizations for construction and operation
of Comanche 3:

 

•      Final
air quality permits (received July 5, 2005);

•      A
long-term water supply contract with the Pueblo Board of Water Works (received July 19,
2005);

•      Pueblo
City Council approval to annex the Comanche plant into the city (received Sept.
12, 2005) and

•      Use
by Special Review permit for onsite disposal of ash over a 50-year period
(received Sept. 27, 2005).

 

The settlement agreement also called for PSCo to acquire the remaining
resource needs through an all-source competitive bidding process.  On Feb. 24, 2005, in conjunction with
the approved LCP, PSCo released an All-Source solicitation for new supply and
demand-side resources.  In May 2005,
PSCo received proposals for over 11,000 MW of firm capacity, nearly 4,600 MW of
nameplate wind capacity, and almost 900 MW of demand-side management
programs.  On Dec. 28, 2005 PSCo
filed a report with the CPUC detailing the bids received, the bid evaluation
process, and the winning bids. PSCo selected bids for approximately 30 MW of
DSM resources, approximately 1300 MW of gas-fired generation resources and
approximately 775 MW of wind generation resources.  These bids, together with Comanche 3, and the
additional DSM agreed to in the LCP settlement agreement, are expected to meet
PSCo’s resource needs through 2012.

 

Renewable Portfolio Standards —
In November 2004, an amendment to the Colorado statutes was passed by
referendum requiring implementation of a renewable energy portfolio standard
for electric service.  The law requires
PSCo to generate, or cause to be generated, a certain level of electricity from
eligible renewable resources.  Generation
of electricity from renewable resources, particularly solar energy, may be a
higher-cost alternative to traditional fuels, such as coal and natural
gas.  These incremental costs are
expected to be recovered from customers. 
On March 29, 2005, the CPUC initiated a proceeding and held various
hearings to determine the rules and regulations required to implement the
renewable portfolio standard.  The CPUC
determined that compliance with the renewable energy portfolio standard should
be measured through the acquisition of renewable energy credits either with or
without the accompanying renewable energy; that the utility purchaser owns the
renewable energy credits associated with existing contracts where the power
purchase agreement is silent on this issue; that Colorado utilities should be
required to file implementation plans, thereby rejecting the proposal to use an
independent plan administrator; and the methods utilities should use for
determining the budget available for renewable resources.  The CPUC issued proposed rules on Jan. 27,
2006.  Final rules are expected to
become effective by the end of the first quarter 2006.

 

Renewable Energy Standard Adjustment (RESA)
– On December 1,
2005, PSCo filed with the CPUC to implement a new 1 percent rider that would
apply to each customer’s total electric bill, providing approximately $22
million in annual revenue.  The revenues
collected under the RESA will be used to acquire sufficient solar resources to
meet the on-site solar system requirements in the Colorado statutes. On Feb.
14, 2006, PSCo and the other parties to the case filed a stipulation agreeing
to reduce the RESA rider to 0.60 percent and to provide monthly reports.  Hearings were held on Feb. 17, 2006.  A CPUC decision is pending.  PSCo expects the RESA rider will go into
effect in early March 2006.

 

Purchased Transmission Services — PSCo has contractual arrangements with
regional transmission service providers to deliver power and energy to the
subsidiaries’ native load customers, which are retail and wholesale load
obligations with terms of more than one year. 
Point-to-point transmission services typically include a charge for the
specific amount of

 

24












 

transmission
capacity being reserved, although some agreements may base charges on the
amount of metered energy delivered. 
Network transmission services include a charge for the metered demand at
the delivery point at the time of the provider’s monthly transmission system
peak, usually calculated as a 12-month rolling average.

 

Fuel Supply and Costs

 

The
following table shows the delivered cost per MMBtu of each significant category
of fuel consumed for electric generation, the percentage of total fuel
requirements represented by each category of fuel and the total weighted
average cost of all fuels during such years.

 




 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Coal
  
  
   
  
  
  Natural Gas
  
  
   
  
  
  Average Fuel
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
  
  Percent
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
  
  Percent
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1.01
  
  
   
  
  
  85
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  7.56
  
  
   
  
  
  15
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  2.00
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.89
  
  
   
  
  
  87
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  5.61
  
  
   
  
  
  13
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  1.52
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.92
  
  
   
  
  
  86
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  4.49
  
  
   
  
  
  14
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  1.42
  
  
   
  
 




 

See additional discussion of fuel supply and costs under Factors
Affecting Results of Continuing Operations in Management’s Discussion and
Analysis under Item 7.

 

Fuel Sources — Coal inventory levels may vary widely among
plants.  However, PSCo normally maintains
no less than 30 days of coal inventory at each plant site.  PSCo’s generation stations use low-sulfur
western coal purchased primarily under long-term contracts with suppliers
operating in Colorado and Wyoming. During 2005, PSCo’s coal requirements for
existing plants were approximately 9.8 million tons. Coal supply inventories at
Dec. 31, 2005 were approximately 12 days usage, based on the maximum burn
rate for all of PSCo’s coal-fired plants. 
See Management’s Discussion and Analysis for further discussion of coal
delivery disruptions.

 

PSCo
has contracted for coal suppliers to supply 100 percent of the Cherokee, Cameo,
and Valmont stations’ projected requirements in 2006.

 

PSCo
has long-term coal supply agreements for the Pawnee and Comanche stations’
projected requirements. Under the long-term agreements the supplier has
dedicated specific coal reserves at the contractually defined mines to meet the
contract quantity obligations. In addition, PSCo has a coal supply agreement to
supply approximately 70 percent of Arapahoe station’s projected requirements
for 2006. Any remaining Arapahoe station requirements will be procured via spot
market purchases.

 

PSCo
operates the jointly owned Hayden generating plant in Colorado.  All of Hayden’s coal requirements are under
contract through the end of 2011.  The
coal will be trucked approximately 14 miles under a trucking contract effective
through 2009 with an option to extend to the end of 2011.  In addition to Hayden, PSCo has partial
ownership in the Craig generating plant in Colorado.  Approximately 70 percent of PSCo’s coal
requirements for Craig are supplied by two long-term agreements.  The remaining coal requirements for Craig are
purchased on the spot market under short term contracts.  All of 2006 expected requirements for Craig
are under contract.

 

PSCo
had a number of coal transportation contracts, which expired over the course of
2005.  PSCo has entered into new
transportation agreements at rates substantially higher than its 2005 costs.

 

PSCo
uses both firm and interruptible natural gas and standby oil in combustion
turbines and certain boilers. Natural gas supplies for PSCo’s power plants are
procured under short- and intermediate- term contracts, which expire in various
years from 2006 through 2025 to provide an adequate supply of fuel.  Certain natural gas supply and transportation
agreements include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified
volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery.  At Dec. 31, 2005, PSCo’s commitments related
to these contracts were approximately $205 million.

 

Commodity Marketing Operations

 

PSCo
conducts various wholesale marketing operations, including the purchase and
sale of electric capacity, energy and energy related products. Participation in
short-term wholesale energy markets provides market intelligence and
information that supports the energy management of PSCo.  PSCo uses physical and financial instruments
to minimize commodity price and credit risk and hedge supplies and purchases.
Engaging in short-term sales and purchase commitments results in an efficient
use of our plants and the capturing of additional margins from non-traditional
customers.  PSCo also uses these
marketing operations to capture arbitrage opportunities created by regional pricing
differentials, supply and demand imbalances and changes in fuel prices.  See additional discussion under Item 7A —
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

 

25












 

SPS

 

Ratemaking Principles

 

Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of
Jurisdiction —
The PUCT regulates SPS’ Texas operations as an electric utility and has
jurisdiction over its retail rates and services. The municipalities in which
SPS operates in Texas have jurisdiction over SPS’ rates in those communities.
The NMPRC has jurisdiction over the issuance of securities. The NMPRC, the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Kansas Corporation Commission have
jurisdiction with respect to retail rates and services and construction of
transmission or generation in their respective states.  SPS is subject to the jurisdiction of the
FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices,
wholesale sales for resale and the transmission of electricity in interstate
commerce.  SPS has received authorization
from the FERC to make wholesale electricity sales at market-based prices,
however, as discussed previously, SPS has filed to withdraw its market-based
rate authority with respect to sales in its own control area.

 

Fuel, Purchased Energy and Conservation
Cost Recovery Mechanisms — Fuel and purchased energy costs are recovered in Texas through a
fixed fuel and purchased energy recovery factor, which is part of SPS’ retail
electric rates.  The Texas retail fuel
factors change each November and May based on the projected cost of
natural gas.

 

If
it appears that SPS will materially over-recover or under-recover these costs,
the factor may be revised upon application by SPS or action by the PUCT. The
regulations require refunding or surcharging over- or under-recovery amounts,
including interest, when they exceed 4 percent of the utility’s annual fuel and
purchased energy costs, as allowed by the PUCT, if this condition is expected
to continue.

 

PUCT
regulations require periodic examination of SPS fuel and purchased energy
costs, the efficiency of the use of fuel and purchased energy, fuel acquisition
and management policies and purchase energy commitments.  SPS is required to file an application for
the PUCT to retrospectively review at least every three years the operations of
SPS’ electric generation and fuel management activities.  SPS is scheduled to file for review and
reconciliation of its 2004-2005 costs at the end of May 2006.

 

The
NMPRC regulations provide for a fuel and purchased power cost adjustment clause
for SPS’ New Mexico retail jurisdiction. 
SPS files monthly and annual reports of its fuel and purchased power
costs with the NMPRC.  The NMPRC
authorized SPS to implement a monthly adjustment factor.

 

SPS
recovers fuel and purchased energy costs from its wholesale customers through a
fuel cost adjustment clause accepted for filing by the FERC.

 

Performance-Based Regulation and Quality of
Service Requirements — In Texas, SPS is subject to a quality of service plan requiring SPS
to comply with electric service reliability, telephone response and abandoned
call performance targets.  If these
targets are not met, SPS is required to make refunds to its customers of up to
$950,000 per year.  As of Dec. 31,
2005, SPS accrued $800,000 to reflect the expected refund obligation for those
measures.

 

Pending and Recently
Concluded Regulatory Proceedings - FERC

 

PSCo and SPS FERC
Transmission Rate Case — On Sept. 2, 2004, Xcel Energy filed on behalf of SPS and
PSCo an application to increase wholesale transmission service and ancillary
service rates within the Xcel Energy joint open access transmission tariff
(OATT).  PSCo and SPS requested an
increase in annual transmission service and ancillary services revenues, which
was adjusted to reflect a net increase in annual revenues of $4.7 million, of
which $1.7 million is attributable to SPS. 
The FERC suspended the filing and delayed the effective date of the
proposed increase to June 1, 2005.  The interim rates went into effect on June 1,
2005, subject to refund.  On Feb. 6,
2006, the parties in the proceeding submitted to the settlement judge an
uncontested offer of settlement that contains stated rates for SPS, with the
opportunity to file revised rates effective Oct. 1, 2006, by which time
the SPP is expected to have filed a regional formula transmission rate
mechanism similar to MISO.  The
settlement results in a $1.1 million SPS rate increase effective June 2005.  The offer of settlement is pending FERC
approval.

 

SPS Wholesale Rate
Complaints — In November 2004, several
wholesale cooperative customers of SPS filed a $3 million rate complaint at the
FERC requesting that the FERC investigate SPS’ wholesale power base rates and
fuel cost adjustment clause calculations. 
In December 2004, the FERC accepted the complaint filing and
ordered SPS base rates subject to refund,

 

26












 

effective Jan. 1, 2005. 
Also in November 2004, SPS filed revisions to its wholesale fuel
cost adjustment clause.  The FERC set the
proposed rate changes into effect on Jan. 1, 2005, subject to refund, and
consolidated the proceeding with the wholesale cooperative customers’ complaint
proceeding.  The FERC set the
consolidated proceeding for hearing and settlement judge procedures, which were
terminated when the parties could not reach a settlement.  A hearing judge has been appointed by the
FERC.  Hearings began Feb. 24, 2006 and are
expected to last several weeks.

 

On Sept. 15, 2005, Public Service Company of New Mexico (PNM) filed a
separate complaint at the FERC in which it contended that its demand charge
under an existing interruptible power supply contract with SPS is excessive and
that SPS has overcharged PNM for fuel costs under three separate agreements
through erroneous fuel clause calculations. 
PNM’s arguments mirror those that it made as an intervenor in the
cooperatives’ complaint case, and SPS believes that they have little
merit.  SPS submitted a response to PNM’s
complaint in October 2005.  In November 2005,
the FERC accepted PNM’s complaint, set it for hearing, suspended hearings and
set the matter for settlement judge procedures.

 

SPS Wholesale Power Base Rate Application — In December 2005, SPS filed at the FERC
for a $4.1 million annual increase in wholesale power rates for many of its
requirements and interruptible capacity wholesale customers.  In January 2006, the FERC issued an
order conditionally accepting and suspending the proposed rates until July 1,
2006, establishing hearing and settlement judge procedures.

 

Southwest Power Pool (SPP) Restructuring — SPS is a member of the SPP regional
reliability council, and SPP acts as transmission tariff administrator for the
SPS system. In October 2003, SPP filed for FERC authorization to transform
its operation into an RTO.  On Oct. 1,
2004, the FERC issued an order granting the SPP status as an RTO.  SPS is required to obtain Kansas and NMPRC
approval before it can transfer functional control of its electrical
transmission system to SPP.  When SPP
begins RTO operations and SPS obtains all required approvals, SPS will be
required to transfer functional control of its electric transmission system to
SPP and take all transmission services, including services required to serve
retail native loads, under the SPP regional tariff.

 

SPP Energy Imbalance
Service - On June 15, 2005, SPP filed
proposed tariff provisions to establish an Energy Imbalance Service (EIS)
wholesale energy market for the SPP region, using a phased approach toward the
development of a fully-functional LMP energy market with appropriate FTR’s, to
be effective Mar. 1, 2006.  On July 15,
2005, Xcel Energy filed a protest addressing the EIS market proposal and urging
FERC to reject the proposal and provide guidance to SPP in its effort to design
and implement a fully functional Day 2 market for the SPP region to avoid “seams”
between the MISO and SPP regions.  On
Sept. 19, 2005, FERC issued an order rejecting the SPP EIS proposal and
providing guidance and recommendations to SPP; however, the FERC did not
require SPP to implement a full Day 2 market similar to MISO.  On Jan. 4, 2006, SPP filed a revised EIS
market proposal, to be effective May 1, 2006.  On Jan. 25, 2006, Xcel Energy protested
the revised EIS market proposal, requesting that FERC find SPP’s proposal as
incomplete and deficient even as a limited market, and reject it on that
basis.  A final FERC decision is expected
later in 2006.  SPS has not yet requested
NMPRC or PUCT approval regarding accounting and ratemaking treatment of EIS
costs.

 

Pending and Recently
Concluded Regulatory Proceedings - PUCT

 

SPS Texas Retail
Fuel Cost Reconciliation – Fuel and purchased
energy costs are recovered in Texas through a fixed fuel and purchased energy
recovery factor.  In May 2004, SPS
filed with PUCT its periodic request for fuel and purchased power cost recovery
for January 2002 through December 2003.  SPS requested approval of approximately $580
million of Texas-jurisdictional fuel and purchased power costs for the two-year
period.  Intervenor testimony contained
objections to SPS’ methodology for assigning average fuel costs to certain
wholesale sales, among other things. 
Recovery of $49 million to $86 million of the requested amount was
contested by multiple intervenors.

 

In 2005, SPS entered into a non-unanimous stipulation with the PUCT
staff and several of the intervenors. 
The stipulation provided reasonable regulatory certainty for SPS on all
key issues raised in this proceeding.  On
Dec. 19, 2005, the PUCT issued an order approving the stipulation.  The stipulation reflects a liability of
approximately $25 million, which was accrued in 2004.  An additional accrual of $4 million was
recorded in 2005 to reflect the impact of the order through Dec. 31,
2005.  Under the terms of the
stipulation, SPS will file a Texas base rate case and its next fuel
reconciliation application by the end of May 2006.

 

Energy Legislation -
The 2005 Texas Legislature passed a law, effective
June 18, 2005, establishing statutory authority for electric utilities
outside of the electric reliability council of Texas in the SPP or the Western
Electricity Coordinating Council to have timely recovery of transmission
infrastructure investments.  After notice
and hearing, the PUCT may allow recovery on an annual basis of the reasonable
and necessary expenditures for transmission infrastructure improvement costs
and changes in wholesale transmission charges under a tariff approved by
FERC.  The PUCT will initiate a
rulemaking for this

 

27












 

process that is expected to take place largely in the first quarter of
2006.

 

Lamb County Electric Cooperative — On July 24, 1995, Lamb County Electric
Cooperative, Inc. (LCEC) petitioned the PUCT for a cease and desist order
against SPS. LCEC alleged that SPS had been unlawfully providing service to oil
field customers and their facilities in LCEC’s singly-certificated area. The
PUCT denied LCEC’s petition. See further discussion under Item 3 — Legal
Proceedings.

 

Pending and Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings - NMPRC

 

New Mexico Fuel
Review - On Jan. 28, 2005, the NMPRC accepted
the staff petition for a review of SPS’ fuel and purchased power cost.  The staff requested a formal review of SPS’
fuel and purchased power cost adjustment clause (FPPCAC) for the period of Oct. 1,
2001 through August 2004.  Hearings
in the fuel review case have been scheduled for April 2006.

 

New Mexico Fuel Factor Continuation Filing - The filing to continue the use of SPS’
FPPCAC was made on Aug. 18, 2005. 
This filing is required every two years pursuant to the NMPRC
rules.  The filing proposes that the
FPPCAC continue the current monthly factor cost recovery methodology.  Certain industrial customers have asked the
NMPRC to review SPS’ assignment of system average fuel cost to certain wholesale
capacity sales.  Customers have also
asked the NMPRC to investigate the treatment of renewable energy certificates
and sulfur dioxide allowance credit proceeds in relation to SPS’ New Mexico
retail fuel and purchased power recovery clause.   Hearings have been scheduled for April 2006,
and a NMPRC decision is expected in late 2006.

 

Capacity and Demand

 

Uninterrupted
system peak demand for SPS for each of the last three years and the forecast
for 2006, assuming normal weather, are listed below.

 




 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  System Peak Demand (in MW)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2006 Forecast (a)
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  SPS
  
  
   
  
  
  4,661
  
  
   
  
  
  4,679
  
  
   
  
  
  4,667
  
  
   
  
  
  4,603
  
  
   
  
 




 

The
peak demand for the SPS system typically occurs in the summer.  The 2005 uninterrupted system peak demand for
SPS occurred on July 25, 2005.

 

Energy Sources and Related Transmission Initiatives

 

SPS
expects to use existing electric generating stations; purchases from other
utilities, independent power producers and power marketers and demand-side
management options to meet its net dependable system capacity requirements.

 

Purchased Power — SPS has contractual arrangements to
purchase power from other utilities and nonregulated energy suppliers.
Capacity, typically measured in KW or MW, is the measure of the rate at which a
particular generating source produces electricity. Energy, typically measured
in Kwh or Mwh, is a measure of the amount of electricity produced from a
particular generating source over a period of time. Long-term purchase power
contracts typically require a periodic payment to secure the capacity from a
particular generating source and a charge for the associated energy actually
purchased from such generating source.

 

SPS
also makes short-term firm and non-firm purchases to replace generation from
company-owned units that are unavailable due to maintenance and unplanned
outages, to provide the utility’s reserve obligation, to obtain energy at a
lower cost than that which could be produced by other resource options,
including company-owned generation and/or long-term purchase power contracts,
and for various other operating requirements.

 

Purchased Transmission Services — SPS has contractual arrangements with
regional transmission service providers to deliver power and energy to the
subsidiaries’ native load customers, which are retail and wholesale load
obligations with terms of more than one year. 
Point-to-point transmission services typically include a charge for the
specific amount of transmission capacity being reserved, although some
agreements may base charges on the amount of metered energy

 

28












 

delivered.  Network transmission services include a
charge for the metered demand at the delivery point at the time of the provider’s
monthly transmission system peak, usually calculated as a 12-month rolling
average.

 

Fuel Supply and Costs

 

The
following table shows the delivered cost per MMBtu of each significant category
of fuel consumed for electric generation, the percentage of total fuel
requirements represented by each category of fuel and the total weighted
average cost of all fuels during such years.

 




 
  
  SPS Generating
  
  
   
  
  
  Coal
  
  
   
  
  
  Natural Gas
  
  
   
  
  
  Average Fuel
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Plants
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
  
  Percent
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
  
  Percent
  
  
   
  
  
  Cost
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1.32
  
  
   
  
  
  68
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  7.77
  
  
   
  
  
  32
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  3.38
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1.20
  
  
   
  
  
  69
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  5.74
  
  
   
  
  
  31
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  2.60
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2003*
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.93
  
  
   
  
  
  73
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  5.24
  
  
   
  
  
  27
  
  
  %
  
  
  $
  
  
  2.10
  
  
   
  
 




 



* The lower 2003 SPS coal costs reflect a prior period fuel credit
adjustment. The normalized cost per MMBtu was approximately $1.14.

 

See additional discussion of fuel supply and costs under Factors
Affecting Results of Continuing Operations in Management’s Discussion and
Analysis under Item 7.

 

Fuel Sources — SPS purchases all of its coal requirements
for its two coal facilities, Harrington and Tolk electric generating stations, from
TUCO, Inc. in the form of crushed, ready-to-burn coal delivered to the
plant bunkers. TUCO, in turn, arranges for the purchase, receiving,
transporting, unloading, handling, crushing, weighing, and delivery of coal to
the plant bunkers to meet SPS’ requirements. TUCO is responsible for
negotiating and administering contracts with coal suppliers, transporters, and
handlers. For the Harrington station, the coal supply contract with TUCO
expires in 2016. For the Tolk station, the coal supply contract with TUCO
expires in 2017.  At Dec. 31, 2005,
coal supplies at the Harrington and Tolk sites were approximately 36 and 40
days supply, respectively.  See Item 7 –
Management’s Discussion & Analysis for discussion of coal delivery
disruptions.  TUCO has coal supply
agreements to supply 100 percent of the projected 2006 requirements for
Harrington and Tolk stations.  TUCO has
long-term contracts for supply of coal in sufficient quantities to meet the
primary needs of the Harrington and Tolk stations.

 

SPS
uses both firm and interruptible natural gas and standby oil in combustion
turbines and certain boilers. Natural gas suppliers for SPS’ power plants are
procured under short- and intermediate-term contracts to provide an adequate
supply of fuel.

 

Commodity Marketing Operations

 

SPS
conducts various wholesale marketing operations, including the purchase and
sale of electric capacity, energy and energy related products. Participation in
short-term wholesale energy markets provides market intelligence and
information that supports the energy management of SPS.  SPS uses physical and financial instruments
to minimize commodity price and credit risk and hedge supplies and purchases.
Engaging in short-term sales and purchase commitments results in an efficient
use of our plants and the capturing of additional margins from non-traditional
customers.  On a limited basis, SPS also
uses these marketing operations to capture arbitrage opportunities created by
regional pricing differentials, supply and demand imbalances and changes in
fuel prices.  See additional discussion
under Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

 

29












 

Xcel Energy Electric Operating Statistics

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Year Ended Dec. 31,
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Electric
  Sales (Millions of Kwh)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential
  
  
   
  
  
  23,930
  
  
   
  
  
  22,828
  
  
   
  
  
  23,207
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Commercial
  and Industrial
  
  
   
  
  
  60,049
  
  
   
  
  
  58,192
  
  
   
  
  
  57,576
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Public
  Authorities and Other
  
  
   
  
  
  1,091
  
  
   
  
  
  1,133
  
  
   
  
  
  1,165
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Retail
  
  
   
  
  
  85,070
  
  
   
  
  
  82,153
  
  
   
  
  
  81,948
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Sales for
  Resale
  
  
   
  
  
  22,194
  
  
   
  
  
  22,521
  
  
   
  
  
  21,981
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Energy Sold
  
  
   
  
  
  107,264
  
  
   
  
  
  104,674
  
  
   
  
  
  103,929
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Number
  of Customers at End of Period
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential
  
  
   
  
  
  2,791,859
  
  
   
  
  
  2,800,338
  
  
   
  
  
  2,769,468
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Commercial
  and Industrial
  
  
   
  
  
  400,035
  
  
   
  
  
  401,744
  
  
   
  
  
  398,605
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Public
  Authorities and Other
  
  
   
  
  
  75,937
  
  
   
  
  
  79,777
  
  
   
  
  
  80,875
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Retail
  
  
   
  
  
  3,267,831
  
  
   
  
  
  3,281,859
  
  
   
  
  
  3,248,948
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Wholesale
  
  
   
  
  
  128
  
  
   
  
  
  206
  
  
   
  
  
  211
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Customers
  
  
   
  
  
  3,267,959
  
  
   
  
  
  3,282,065
  
  
   
  
  
  3,249,159
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Electric
  Revenues (Thousands of Dollars)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  2,048,100
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,791,606
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,781,179
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Commercial
  and Industrial
  
  
   
  
  
  3,733,648
  
  
   
  
  
  3,203,629
  
  
   
  
  
  3,038,716
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Public
  Authorities and Other
  
  
   
  
  
  110,895
  
  
   
  
  
  106,657
  
  
   
  
  
  107,234
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Retail
  
  
   
  
  
  5,892,643
  
  
   
  
  
  5,101,892
  
  
   
  
  
  4,927,129
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Wholesale
  
  
   
  
  
  1,193,762
  
  
   
  
  
  1,011,210
  
  
   
  
  
  855,389
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Other
  Electric Revenues
  
  
   
  
  
  157,232
  
  
   
  
  
  112,143
  
  
   
  
  
  137,420
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Electric Revenues
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  7,243,637
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  6,225,245
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  5,919,938
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Kwh Sales
  per Retail Customer
  
  
   
  
  
  26,033
  
  
   
  
  
  25,032
  
  
   
  
  
  25,223
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Revenue per
  Retail Customer
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,803.23
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,554.57
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,516.53
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential
  Revenue per Kwh
  
  
   
  
  
  8.56
  
  
  ¢
  
  
  7.85
  
  
  ¢
  
  
  7.68
  
  
  ¢
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Commercial
  and Industrial Revenue per Kwh
  
  
   
  
  
  6.22
  
  
  ¢
  
  
  5.51
  
  
  ¢
  
  
  5.28
  
  
  ¢
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Wholesale
  Revenue per Kwh
  
  
   
  
  
  5.38
  
  
  ¢
  
  
  4.49
  
  
  ¢
  
  
  3.89
  
  
  ¢
  
 


 

30












 

NATURAL GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS

 

Natural Gas Utility Trends

 

Changes in regulatory policies and market forces have shifted the
industry from traditional bundled natural gas sales service to an unbundled
transportation and market-based commodity service at the wholesale level and
for larger commercial and industrial retail customers. These customers have
greater ability to buy natural gas directly from suppliers and arrange their
own pipeline and retail LDC transportation service.

 

The
natural gas delivery/transportation business has remained competitive as
industrial and large commercial customers have the ability to bypass the local
natural gas utility through the construction of interconnections directly with
interstate pipelines, thereby avoiding the delivery charges added by the local
natural gas utility.

 

As
LDCs, NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin and PSCo provide unbundled transportation
service to large customers. Transportation service does not have an adverse
effect on earnings because the sales and transportation rates have been
designed to make them economically indifferent to whether natural gas has been
sold and transported or merely transported. However, some transportation
customers may have greater opportunities or incentives to physically bypass the
LDCs’ distribution system.

 

The
most significant recent developments in the natural gas operations of the
utility subsidiaries was the substantial and continuing increases in wholesale
natural gas market prices and the continued trend toward declining use per
customer by residential customers as a result of improved building construction
technologies and higher appliance efficiencies. 
From 1995 to 2005, average annual sales to the typical residential
customer declined from 104 Dth per year to 87 Dth per year on a
weather-normalized basis.  Although
recent wholesale price increases do not directly affect earnings because of gas
cost recovery mechanisms, the high prices are expected to encourage further
efficiency efforts by customers.

 

NSP-Minnesota

 

Ratemaking Principles

 

Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of
Jurisdiction —
Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s operations are
regulated by the MPUC and the NDPSC within their respective states. The MPUC
has regulatory authority over aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s financial activities,
including security issuances, certain property transfers, mergers with other
utilities and transactions between NSP-Minnesota and its affiliates. In
addition, the MPUC reviews and approves NSP-Minnesota’s gas supply plans for
meeting customers’ future energy needs.

 

Purchased Gas and Conservation Cost
Recovery Mechanisms — NSP-Minnesota’s retail natural gas rate
schedules for Minnesota and North Dakota include a PGA clause that provides for
prospective monthly rate adjustments to reflect the forecasted cost of
purchased natural gas. The annual difference between the natural gas costs
collected through PGA rates and the actual natural gas costs are collected or
refunded over the subsequent 12-month period. The MPUC and NDPSC have the
authority to disallow recovery of certain costs if they find the utility was
not prudent in its procurement activities.

 

NSP-Minnesota
is required by Minnesota law to spend a minimum of 0.5 percent of Minnesota
natural gas revenue on conservation improvement programs. These costs are
recovered through an annual cost recovery mechanism for natural gas
conservation and energy management program expenditures. NSP-Minnesota is
required to request a new cost recovery level annually.

 

Pending and
Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings

 

NSP-Minnesota
Natural Gas Rate Case - In September 2004,
NSP-Minnesota filed a natural gas rate case for its Minnesota retail customers,
seeking a rate increase of $9.9 million, based on a return on equity of 11.5
percent.  In August 2005, the MPUC
approved an annual rate increase of $5.8 million, based on a return on equity
of 10.4 percent. Final rates became effective Dec. 1, 2005.

 

31












 

Capability and Demand

 

Natural
gas supply requirements are categorized as firm or interruptible (customers
with an alternate energy supply). The maximum daily send-out (firm and
interruptible) for NSP-Minnesota was 611,950 MMBtu for 2005, which occurred on Jan. 5,
2005.

 

NSP-Minnesota
purchases natural gas from independent suppliers. The natural gas is delivered
under natural gas transportation agreements with interstate pipelines. These
agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of 521,854 MMBtu/day.
In addition, NSP-Minnesota has contracted with providers of underground natural
gas storage services. These storage agreements provide storage for
approximately 21 percent of winter natural gas requirements and 26 percent of
peak day, firm requirements of NSP-Minnesota.

 

NSP-Minnesota
also owns and operates one LNG plant with a storage capacity of 2.13 Bcf
equivalent and three propane-air plants with a storage capacity of 1.4 Bcf
equivalent to help meet its peak requirements. These peak-shaving facilities
have production capacity equivalent to 250,300 MMBtu of natural gas per day, or
approximately 34 percent of peak day firm requirements. LNG and propane-air
plants provide a cost-effective alternative to annual fixed pipeline
transportation charges to meet the peaks caused by firm space heating demand on
extremely cold winter days.

 

NSP-Minnesota
is required to file for a change in natural gas supply contract levels to meet
peak demand, to redistribute demand costs among classes or to exchange one form
of demand for another. NSP-Minnesota’s 2004-2005 entitlement levels were
approved on July 12, 2005 which allow NSP-Minnesota to recover the demand
entitlement costs associated with the increase in transportation, supply, and
storage levels in its monthly PGA. In June 2005, NSP-Minnesota also filed
to add incremental storage to its portfolio. 
The increase in storage was approved by the MPUC on Nov. 18,
2005.  The 2005-2006 entitlement levels
are pending MPUC action.

 

Natural Gas Supply and Costs

 

NSP-Minnesota
actively seeks natural gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to
yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility, decreased
interruption and financial risk, and economical rates. This diversification
involves numerous domestic and Canadian supply sources with varied contract
lengths.

 

The
following table summarizes the average cost per MMBtu of natural gas purchased
for resale by NSP-Minnesota’s regulated retail natural gas distribution
business:

 




 
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  8.90
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  6.88
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  5.47
  
  
   
  
 




 

The
cost of natural gas supply, transportation service and storage service is
recovered through the PGA cost recovery mechanism.

 

NSP-Minnesota
has firm natural gas transportation contracts with several pipelines, which
expire in various years from 2006 through 2027.

 

NSP-Minnesota
has certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements that include
obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural
gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery. At Dec. 31, 2005, NSP-Minnesota
was committed to approximately $810 million in such obligations under these
contracts.

 

NSP-Minnesota
purchases firm natural gas supply utilizing long-term and short-term agreements
from approximately 25 domestic and Canadian suppliers. This diversity of
suppliers and contract lengths allows NSP-Minnesota to maintain competition
from suppliers and minimize supply costs.

 

See
additional discussion of natural gas costs under Factors Affecting Results of
Continuing Operations in Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

 

32












 

NSP-Wisconsin

 

Ratemaking Principles

 

Summary of Regulatory Agencies and Areas of
Jurisdiction — NSP-Wisconsin is
regulated by the PSCW and the MPSC.

 

The
PSCW has a biennial base-rate filing requirement. By June of each
odd-numbered year, NSP-Wisconsin must submit a rate filing for the test year
period beginning the following January. The filing procedure and review
generally allow the PSCW sufficient time to issue an order and implement new
base rates effective with the start of the test year.

 

Natural Gas Cost Recovery Mechanisms — NSP-Wisconsin has a retail gas cost recovery
mechanism for Wisconsin operations to recover changes in the actual cost of
natural gas and transportation and storage services. The PSCW has the authority
to disallow certain costs if it finds the utility was not prudent in its
procurement activities.

 

NSP-Wisconsin’s
gas rate schedules for Michigan customers include a gas cost recovery factor,
which is based on 12-month projections. After each 12-month period, a
reconciliation is submitted whereby over-collections are refunded and any
under-collections are collected from the customers over the subsequent 12-month
period.

 

Pending and Recently Concluded
Regulatory Proceedings - PSCW

 

See NSP-Wisconsin 2006 General
Rate Case discussion under Pending and Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings
- - PSCW in NSP-Wisconsin’s Electric Utility Operations section above.

 

Capability and Demand

 

Natural
gas supply requirements are categorized as firm or interruptible (customers
with an alternate energy supply). The maximum daily send-out (firm and
interruptible) for NSP-Wisconsin was 154,040 MMBtu for 2005, which occurred on Jan. 17,
2005.

 

NSP-Wisconsin
purchases natural gas from independent suppliers. The natural gas is delivered
under natural gas transportation agreements with interstate pipelines. These
agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of approximately
122,872 MMBtu/day. In addition, NSP-Wisconsin has contracted with providers of
underground natural gas storage services. These storage agreements provide
storage for approximately 21 percent of winter natural gas requirements and 29
percent of peak day, firm requirements of NSP-Wisconsin.

 

NSP-Wisconsin
also owns and operates one LNG plant with a storage capacity of 270,000 Mcf
equivalent and one propane-air plant with a storage capacity of 2,700 Mcf
equivalent to help meet its peak requirements. These peak-shaving facilities
have production capacity equivalent to 18,408 MMBtu of natural gas per day, or
approximately 14 percent of peak day firm requirements. LNG and propane-air
plants provide a cost-effective alternative to annual fixed pipeline
transportation charges to meet the peaks caused by firm space heating demand on
extremely cold winter days.

 

NSP-Wisconsin
is required to file a natural gas supply plan with the PSCW annually to change
natural gas supply contract levels to meet peak demand. NSP-Wisconsin’s winter
2005-2006 supply plan was approved by the PSCW in October 2005.

 

Natural Gas Supply and Costs

 

NSP-Wisconsin
actively seeks natural gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to
yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility, decreased
interruption and financial risk, and economical rates. This diversification
involves numerous domestic and Canadian supply sources with varied contract
lengths.

 

The
following table summarizes the average cost per MMBtu of natural gas purchased
for resale by NSP-Wisconsin’s regulated retail natural gas distribution
business:

 




 
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  8.64
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  7.00
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  6.23
  
  
   
  
 




 

The
cost of natural gas supply, transportation service and storage service is
recovered through various cost recovery adjustment mechanisms.

 

NSP-Wisconsin
has firm natural gas transportation contracts with several pipelines, which
expire in various years from 2006 through 2027.

 

33












 

NSP-Wisconsin
has certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements that include
obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural
gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery. 
At Dec. 31, 2005, NSP-Wisconsin was committed to approximately $145
million in such obligations under these contracts.

 

NSP-Wisconsin
purchased firm natural gas supply utilizing short-term agreements from
approximately 25 domestic and Canadian suppliers.  This diversity of suppliers and contract
lengths allows NSP-Wisconsin to maintain competition from suppliers and minimize
supply costs.

 

See
additional discussion of natural gas costs under Factors Affecting Results of
Continuing Operations in Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

 

PSCo

 

Ratemaking Principles

 

Summary of
Regulatory Agencies and Areas of Jurisdiction — PSCo is regulated by
the CPUC with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance
of securities.  PSCo holds a FERC
certificate that allows it to transport natural gas in interstate commerce
without PSCo becoming subject to full FERC jurisdiction under the federal
Natural Gas Act.

 

Purchased Gas and Conservation Cost
Recovery Mechanisms — PSCo has a GCA mechanism, which allows
PSCo to recover its actual costs of purchased gas.  The GCA is revised monthly to allow for
changes in gas rates.

 

Performance-based Regulation and
Quality of Service Requirements — The CPUC established a combined electric and natural gas quality of
service plan.  See further discussion
under Item 1, Electric Utility Operations.

 

Pending and Recently Concluded Regulatory Proceedings

 

PSCo
Natural Gas Rate Case — In 2005, PSCo filed for an
increase of $34.5 million in natural gas base rates in Colorado, based on a
return on equity of 11.0 percent with a common equity ratio of 55.49 percent.

 

On Jan. 19, 2006, the CPUC approved a settlement agreement between
PSCo and other parties to the case. 
Final rates became effective Feb. 6, 2006. The terms of the
settlement include:

 

•      Natural
gas revenue increase of $22 million;

•      Return
on common equity of 10.5 percent;

•      Earnings
in excess of 10.5 percent return on common equity will be refunded back to
customers;

•      Common
equity ratio of 55.49 percent; and

•      Customer
charges for the residential and commercial sales classes of $10 and $20 per
month, respectively.

 

Capability and Demand

 

PSCo
projects peak day natural gas supply requirements for firm sales and backup
transportation, which include transportation customers contracting for firm
supply backup, to be 1,792,770 MMBtu. In addition, firm transportation customers
hold 489,014 MMBtu of capacity for PSCo without supply backup.  Total firm delivery obligation for PSCo is
2,281,784 MMBtu per day. The maximum daily deliveries for PSCo in 2005 for firm
and interruptible services were 1,871,486 MMBtu on Dec. 7, 2005.

 

PSCo
purchases natural gas from independent suppliers. The natural gas supplies are
delivered to the respective delivery systems through a combination of
transportation agreements with interstate pipelines and deliveries by suppliers
directly to each company. These agreements provide for firm deliverable
pipeline capacity of approximately 1,802,524 MMBtu/day, which includes 831,866
MMBtu of supplies held under third-party underground storage agreements. In
addition, PSCo operates three company-owned underground storage facilities,
which provide about 40,000 MMBtu of natural gas supplies on a peak day. The
balance of the quantities required to meet firm peak day sales obligations are
primarily purchased at the companies’ city gate meter stations and a small amount
is received directly from wellhead sources.

 

PSCo
has closed the Leyden Storage Field and is in the monitoring phase of the
abandonment process, which is expected to continue until December 2007.
See further discussion at Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

 

PSCo
is required by CPUC regulations to file a natural gas purchase plan by June of
each year projecting and describing the quantities of natural gas supplies,
upstream services and the costs of those supplies and services for the period
beginning July

 

34












 

1 through June 30 of the
following year. PSCo is also required to file a natural gas purchase report by October of
each year reporting actual quantities and costs incurred for natural gas
supplies and upstream services for the 12-month period ending the previous June 30.

 

Natural Gas Supply and Costs

 

PSCo
actively seeks natural gas supply, transportation and storage alternatives to
yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased flexibility, decreased
interruption and financial risk, and economical rates. This diversification
involves numerous supply sources with varied contract lengths.

 

The
following table summarizes the average cost per MMBtu of natural gas purchased
for resale by PSCo’s regulated retail natural gas distribution business:

 




 
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  8.01
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  6.30
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  4.94
  
  
   
  
 




 

PSCo
has certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements that include
obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of natural
gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery. At Dec. 31, 2005, PSCo was
committed to approximately $1.4 billion in such obligations under these
contracts, which expire in various years from 2006 through 2025.

 

PSCo
purchases natural gas by optimizing a balance of long-term and short-term
natural gas purchases, firm transportation and natural gas storage contracts.
During 2005, PSCo purchased natural gas from approximately 37 suppliers.

 

See
additional discussion of natural gas costs under Factors Affecting Results of
Continuing Operations in Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

 

35












 

Xcel Energy Gas Operating Statistics

 


 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  Year Ended Dec. 31,
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  2005
  
  
   
  
  
  2004
  
  
   
  
  
  2003
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Gas Deliveries (Thousands of MMBtu)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential
  
  
   
  
  
  135,794
  
  
   
  
  
  134,512
  
  
   
  
  
  139,107
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Commercial and Industrial
  
  
   
  
  
  83,667
  
  
   
  
  
  86,053
  
  
   
  
  
  90,937
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Retail
  
  
   
  
  
  219,461
  
  
   
  
  
  220,565
  
  
   
  
  
  230,044
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Transportation and Other
  
  
   
  
  
  134,061
  
  
   
  
  
  116,593
  
  
   
  
  
  117,343
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Deliveries
  
  
   
  
  
  353,522
  
  
   
  
  
  337,158
  
  
   
  
  
  347,387
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Number of Customers at End of Period
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential
  
  
   
  
  
  1,636,652
  
  
   
  
  
  1,612,047
  
  
   
  
  
  1,576,438
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Commercial and Industrial
  
  
   
  
  
  145,067
  
  
   
  
  
  145,153
  
  
   
  
  
  147,427
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Retail
  
  
   
  
  
  1,781,719
  
  
   
  
  
  1,757,200
  
  
   
  
  
  1,723,865
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Transportation and Other
  
  
   
  
  
  3,764
  
  
   
  
  
  3,544
  
  
   
  
  
  3,298
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Customers
  
  
   
  
  
  1,785,483
  
  
   
  
  
  1,760,744
  
  
   
  
  
  1,727,163
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Gas Revenues (Thousands of Dollars)
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,450,316
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,180,120
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,018,782
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Commercial and Industrial
  
  
   
  
  
  794,230
  
  
   
  
  
  660,227
  
  
   
  
  
  592,623
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Retail
  
  
   
  
  
  2,244,546
  
  
   
  
  
  1,840,347
  
  
   
  
  
  1,611,405
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Transportation and Other
  
  
   
  
  
  62,839
  
  
   
  
  
  75,167
  
  
   
  
  
  66,363
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total Gas Revenues
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  2,307,385
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,915,514
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,677,768
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Dth Sales per Retail Customer
  
  
   
  
  
  123.17
  
  
   
  
  
  125.52
  
  
   
  
  
  133.45
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Revenue per Retail Customer
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,259.76
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  1,047.32
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  934.76
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Residential Revenue per MMBtu
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  10.68
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  8.77
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  7.32
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Commercial and Industrial Revenue per MMBtu
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  9.49
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  7.67
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  6.52
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Transportation and Other Revenue per MMBtu
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.47
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.63
  
  
   
  
  
  $
  
  
  0.57
  
  
   
  
 


 

36












 

ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS

 

Certain
of Xcel Energy’s subsidiary facilities are regulated by federal and state
environmental agencies. These agencies have jurisdiction over air emissions,
water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous substances.
Various company activities require registrations, permits, licenses,
inspections and approvals from these agencies. Xcel Energy has received all
necessary authorizations for the construction and continued operation of its
generation, transmission and distribution systems. Company facilities have been
designed and constructed to operate in compliance with applicable environmental
standards.

 

Xcel
Energy and its subsidiaries strive to comply with all environmental regulations
applicable to its operations. However, it is not possible at this time to
determine when or to what extent additional facilities or modifications of
existing or planned facilities will be required as a result of changes to
environmental regulations, interpretations or enforcement policies or,
generally, what effect future laws or regulations may have upon Xcel Energy’s
operations. For more information on environmental contingencies, see Notes 14
and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, environmental matters in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7 and the matter discussed
below.

 

Levee Station Manufactured Gas Plant Site —
A portion of NSP-Minnesota’s High Bridge plant coal yard is located on the site
of the former Levee Station MGP site. The Levee Station was a coke-oven gas
purification, storage and distribution facility.  The Levee Station supplied manufactured gas
to the city of St. Paul from 1918 to the early 1950s.  In the 1950s, the facility was demolished,
and the High Bridge coal yard was extended onto the property.  In the 1990s, the site was investigated and
partially remediated at a cost of approximately $2.9 million.  In 2006, NSP-Minnesota plans to commence
construction of the High Bridge Combined Cycle Generating Plant, as part of the
MERP, on the site of the Levee Station. The construction of the new plant
required the removal of buried structures and soil and groundwater remediation.
Remediation activities were essentially completed in 2005 at a cost of $3.5
million, which will be accounted for as a capital expenditure of the MERP
project. 

 

CAPITAL SPENDING AND FINANCING

 

For
a discussion of expected capital expenditures and funding sources, see
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

 

EMPLOYEES

 

The
number of full-time Xcel Energy employees in continuing operations at Dec. 31,
2005, is presented in the table below. Of the full-time employees listed below,
5,459 or 56 percent, are covered under collective bargaining agreements.

 




 
  
  NSP-Minnesota*
  
  
   
  
  
  2,642
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  NSP-Wisconsin
  
  
   
  
  
  538
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  PSCo
  
  
   
  
  
  2,595
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  SPS
  
  
   
  
  
  1,041
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Xcel Energy
  Services Inc.
  
  
   
  
  
  2,961
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Other
  subsidiaries
  
  
   
  
  
  4
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  Total
  
  
   
  
  
  9,781
  
  
   
  
 




 



*
NSP-Minnesota full-time employees include 347 employees loaned to the NMC. In
addition, the NMC has 712 full-time employees of its own.

 

37












 

EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS

 

Richard
C. Kelly, 59, Chairman of the Board, Xcel Energy Inc., December 2005 to
present; Chief Executive Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., July 2005 to present;
President, Xcel Energy Inc., October 2003 to present. Previously, Chief
Operating Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., October 2003 to June 2005, Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., August 2002 to October 2003
and President — Enterprises Business Unit, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to August 2002.


 

Paul
J. Bonavia, 54, President — Utilities Group, Xcel Energy, November 2005 to
present; Vice President, Xcel Energy Services Inc., September 2000 to
present. Previously, President — Commercial Enterprises Business Unit, Xcel
Energy, December 2003 to October 2005 and President — Energy Markets
Business Unit, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to December 2003.

 

Benjamin
G.S. Fowke III, 47, Chief Financial Officer, Xcel Energy Inc., October 2003
to present; Vice President, Xcel Energy Inc., November 2002 to
present.  Previously, Treasurer, Xcel
Energy Inc., November 2002 to May 2004 and Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer — Energy Markets Business Unit, Xcel Energy, August 2000
to November 2002.

 

Gary
L. Gibson, 64, President, SPS, December 2000 to present; Chief Executive
Officer, SPS, August 2001 to present.

 

Raymond
E. Gogel, 55, Vice President, Xcel Energy Services Inc., April 2002 to present;
Chief Information Officer, Xcel Energy Services Inc., April 2002 to February
2006 Vice President Customer and Enterprise Solutions Group, Chief Human
Resource Officer and Chief Administrative Officer, November 2005 to
present.  Previously, Vice President and
Senior Client Services Principal, IBM Global Services, April 2001 to April 2002
and Senior Project Executive, IBM Global Services, April 1999 to April 2001.

 

Cathy
J. Hart, 56, Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Xcel Energy Inc., August 2000
to present; Vice President, Corporate Services Group, November 2005 to
present.

 

Gary
R. Johnson, 59, Vice President and General Counsel, Xcel Energy Inc., August 2000
to present. 

 

Cynthia
L. Lesher, 57, President and Chief Executive Officer, NSP-Minnesota, October 2005
to present. Previously, Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy, August 2000
to October 2005 and Chief Human Resources Officer, Xcel Energy, July 2001
to October 2005.

 

Teresa
S. Madden, 49, Vice President and Controller, Xcel Energy Inc., January 2004
to present. Previously, Vice President of Finance — Customer and Field
Operations Business Unit, Xcel Energy, August 2003 to January 2004,
Interim CFO, Rogue Wave Software, Inc., February 2003 to July 2003
and Corporate Controller, Rogue Wave Software, Inc., October 2000 to February 2003.

 

Michael
L. Swenson, 55, President and Chief Executive Officer, NSP-Wisconsin, February 2002
to present. Previously, State Vice President for North Dakota and South Dakota,
August 2000 to February 2002.

 

George
E. Tyson II, 40, Vice President and Treasurer, Xcel Energy Inc., May 2004
to present.  Previously, Managing
Director and Assistant Treasurer, Xcel Energy, July 2003 to May 2004;
Director of Origination — Energy Markets Business Unit, Xcel Energy, May 2002
to July 2003; Associate and Vice President, Deutsche Bank Securities, December 1996
to April 2002.

 

Patricia
K. Vincent, 47, President and Chief Executive Officer, PSCo, October 2005 to
present.  Previously, President —
Customer and Field Operations Business Unit, Xcel Energy, July 2003 to October
2005, President — Retail Business Unit, Xcel Energy, March 2001 to July 2003
and Vice President of Marketing and Sales, Xcel Energy Services Inc., August 2000
to March 2001. 

 

David
M. Wilks, 59, Vice President, Xcel Energy Services, Inc., September 2000
to present; President — Energy Supply Group, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to
present. 

 

No
family relationships exist between any of the executive officers or directors.

 

38












 

Item 1A —
Risk Factors

 

Risks
Associated with Our Business

 

Our profitability depends in part on the ability of our utility
subsidiaries to recover their costs from their customers and there may be
changes in circumstances or in the regulatory environment that impair the
ability of our utility subsidiaries to recover costs from their customers.

 

We are subject
to comprehensive regulation by several federal and state utility regulatory
agencies, which significantly influences our operating environment and our
ability to recover our costs from utility customers. The utility commissions in
the states where our utility subsidiaries operate regulate many aspects of our
utility operations including siting and construction of facilities, customer
service and the rates that we can charge customers.

 

The
profitability of our utility operations is dependent on our ability to recover
costs related to providing energy and utility services to our customers.  Our public utility subsidiaries currently
provide service at rates approved by one or more regulatory commissions.  These rates are generally regulated based on
an analysis of the utility’s expenses incurred in a test year.  Thus, the rates a utility is allowed to
charge may or may not match its expenses at any given time.  While rate regulation is premised on
providing a reasonable opportunity to earn a reasonable rate of return on
invested capital, there can be no assurance that the applicable regulatory
commission will judge all of our costs to have been prudently incurred or that
the regulatory process in which rates are determined will always result in
rates that will produce full recovery of our costs.   Although we believe that the current
regulatory environment applicable to our business would permit us to recover
the costs of our utility services, it is possible that there could be changes
in the regulatory environment that would impair our ability to recover costs
historically collected from our customers. 


 

State utility
commissions generally possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the
utility customers are being met. The state utility commissions also may seek to
impose restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends
to us. If successful, this could materially and adversely affect our ability to
meet our financial obligations, including paying dividends on our common stock.

 

The FERC has
jurisdiction over wholesale rates for electric transmission service, electric
energy sold at wholesale in interstate commerce, hydro facility licensing and
certain other activities of our utility subsidiaries. Federal, state and local
agencies also have jurisdiction over many of our other activities, including
regulation of retail rates and environmental matters.  

 

We are unable
to predict the impact on our operating results from the future regulatory
activities of any of these agencies. Changes in regulations or the imposition
of additional regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of
operations and hence could materially and adversely affect our ability to meet
our financial obligations, including paying dividends on our common stock.

 

We are subject to commodity price risk, credit risk and other risks
associated with energy markets.

 

We engage in
wholesale sales and purchases of electric capacity, energy and energy-related
products and, accordingly, are subject to commodity price risk, credit risk and
other risks associated with these activities.

 

We are exposed to
market and credit risks in our generation, distribution, commodity acquisition,
short-term wholesale and commodity trading activities.  To minimize the risk of market price
fluctuations and product availability, we enter into physical and financial
contracts to hedge both price and availability risk associated with purchase
and sale commitments, fuel requirements and inventories of coal, natural gas,
fuel oil and energy and energy-related products.  However, these contracts do not completely
eliminate risks, including commodity price changes, market supply shortages, credit
risk and interest rate changes. The impact of these variables could result in
our inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy
or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales commitments or increased interest
expense.

 

Credit and
performance risk includes the risk that counterparties that owe us money or
product will breach their obligations. Should the counterparties to these
arrangements fail to perform, we may be forced to enter into alternative
arrangements. In that event, our financial results could be adversely affected
and we could incur losses.

 

We mark
commodity trading derivatives to estimated fair market value on a daily basis
(mark-to-market accounting), which causes earnings variability. Quoted market
prices are utilized in determining the value of these derivative commodity
instruments.  For positions for which
market prices are not available, we utilize models based on forward price
curves. These

 

39












 

models incorporate
estimates and assumptions as to a variety of factors such as pricing
relationships between various energy commodities and geographic locations.
Actual experience can vary significantly from these estimates and assumptions.

 

Our subsidiary, PSCo, has received a notice from the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS) proposing to disallow certain interest expense deductions that
PSCo claimed in 1993 through 1999. Should the IRS ultimately prevail on this
issue, our liquidity position and financial results could be materially
adversely affected.

 

PSCo’s wholly
owned subsidiary PSR Investments, Inc. (PSRI) owns and manages permanent
life insurance policies on some of PSCo’s employees, known as corporate-owned
life insurance (COLI). At various times, borrowings have been made against the
cash values of these COLI policies and deductions taken on the interest expense
on these borrowings. The IRS has challenged the deductibility of such interest
expense deductions and has disallowed the deductions taken in tax years 1993
through 1999.

 

We believe
that the tax deduction of interest expense on the COLI policy loans is in full
compliance with the law. Accordingly, PSRI has not recorded any provision for
income tax or related interest or penalties that may be imposed by the IRS and
has continued to take deductions for interest expense related to policy loans
on its income tax returns for subsequent years.

 

In April 2004,
Xcel Energy filed a lawsuit against the government in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Minnesota to establish its right to deduct the policy loan
interest expense that had accrued during tax years 1993 and 1994 on policy
loans related to its COLI policies.

 

After Xcel Energy had filed this suit, the IRS sent it two statutory
notices of proposed deficiency of tax, penalty, and interest for taxable years
1995 through 1999.  Xcel Energy then
timely filed two Tax Court petitions challenging those notices.  Xcel Energy anticipates that the dispute
relating to its claimed interest expense deductions for tax years 1993 and
later will be resolved in the refund suit that is pending in the Minnesota
federal district court and that the two Tax Court petitions will be held in
abeyance pending the outcome of the refund litigation.

 

On
Oct. 12, 2005, the district court denied Xcel Energy’s motion for summary
judgment on the grounds that there were disputed issues of material fact that
required a trial for resolution.  At the
same time, the district court denied the government’s motion for summary
judgment that was based on its contention that PSCo had lacked an insurable
interest in the lives of the employees insured under the COLI policies.  However, the district court granted Xcel
Energy’s motion for partial summary judgment on the grounds that PSCo did have
the requisite insurable interest.  The
case is expected to proceed to trial and the litigation could take another two
or more years.

 

Xcel Energy believes that the tax deduction for interest expense on the
COLI policy loans is in full compliance with the tax law. Accordingly, PSRI has
not recorded any provision for income tax or related interest or penalties that
may be imposed by the IRS and has continued to take deductions for interest
expense related to policy loans on its income tax returns for subsequent years.  As discussed above, the litigation could
require several years to reach final resolution.  Defense of Xcel Energy’s position may require
significant cash outlays, which may or may not be recoverable in a court
proceeding.  Although the ultimate resolution
of this matter is uncertain, it could have a material adverse effect on Xcel
Energy’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.  

 

Should the IRS
ultimately prevail on this issue, tax and interest payable through Dec. 31,
2005, would reduce retained earnings by an estimated $361 million.  In 2004, Xcel Energy received formal
notification that the IRS will seek penalties. If penalties (plus associated
interest) also are included, the total exposure through Dec. 31, 2005, is
approximately $428 million.  Xcel Energy
annual earnings for 2006 would be reduced by approximately $44 million, after
tax, which represents 10 cents per share, if COLI interest expense deductions
were no longer available.

 

We are subject to environmental laws and regulations, compliance with
which could be difficult and costly.

 

We are subject to
a number of environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of our
past, present and future operations, including air emissions, water quality,
wastewater discharges and the management of wastes and hazardous
substances.  These laws and regulations
generally require us to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental
registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals.  Environmental laws and regulations can also
require us to perform environmental remediations and to install pollution
control equipment at our facilities. 
Both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce the
applicable environmental laws and regulations against us.  We must pay all or a portion of the cost to
remediate sites where our past activities, or the activities of certain other
parties, caused environmental

 

40












 

contamination.  At December 31, 2005, these sites
included:

 

•  the site of a former federal
uranium enrichment facility;

•  the sites of former manufactured
gas plants operated by our subsidiaries or predecessors; and

•  third party sites, such as
landfills, to which we are alleged to be a potentially responsible party that
sent hazardous materials and wastes.

 

In addition, we
cannot assure you that existing environmental laws or regulations will not be
revised or that new laws or regulations seeking to protect the environment will
not be adopted or become applicable to us or that we will not identify in the
future conditions that will result in obligations or liabilities under existing
environmental laws and regulations. 
Revised or additional laws or regulations which result in increased
compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, or currently
unanticipated costs or restrictions under existing laws or regulations,
particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could
have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

 

For further discussion see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

 

Our subsidiary, NSP-Minnesota, is subject to the risks of nuclear
generation.

 

NSP-Minnesota’s
two nuclear stations, Prairie Island and Monticello, subject it to the risks of
nuclear generation, which include:

 

•      the risks associated with storage,
handling and disposal of radioactive materials and the current lack of a
long-term disposal solution for radioactive materials;

•      limitations on the amounts and types of insurance
commercially available to cover losses that might arise in connection with
nuclear operations; and

•      uncertainties with respect to the
technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the
end of their licensed lives.

 

The Nuclear
Regulatory Commission (NRC) has broad authority under federal law to impose
licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear
generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has the
authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its
assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved.
Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could necessitate
substantial capital expenditures at NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear plants. In
addition, although we have no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident,
if an incident did occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, the non-compliance
of other nuclear facilities operators with applicable regulations or the
occurrence of a serious nuclear incident at other facilities could result in
increased regulation of the industry as a whole, which could then increase
NSP-Minnesota’s compliance costs and impact the results of operations of its
facilities.

 

Recession, grid disturbances, acts of war or terrorism could negatively
impact our business.

 

The
consequences of a prolonged recession and adverse market conditions may include
the continued uncertainty of energy prices and the capital and commodity
markets. We cannot predict the impact of any economic slowdown or fluctuating
energy prices. However, such impact could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

 

Also, because
our generation and transmission systems are part of an interconnected regional
grid, we face the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption or
black-out caused by an event (severe storm, generator or transmission facility
outage) on a neighboring system or the actions of a neighboring utility,
similar to the Aug. 14, 2003 black-out in portions of the eastern U.S. and
Canada. Any such disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues
and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material
adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

 

The conflict
in Iraq and any other military strikes or sustained military campaign may
affect our operations in unpredictable ways and may cause changes in the insurance
markets, force us to increase security measures and cause disruptions of fuel
supplies and markets, particularly with respect to natural gas and purchased
energy. The possibility that infrastructure facilities, such as electric
generation, transmission and distribution facilities, would be direct targets
of, or indirect casualties of, an act of war may affect our operations. War and
the possibility of further war may have an adverse impact on the economy in
general. A lower level of economic activity might result in a decline in energy
consumption, which may adversely affect our revenues and future growth.
Instability in the financial markets as a result of war may also affect our
ability to raise capital.

 

41












 

Further, like
other operators of major industrial facilities, our generation plants, fuel
storage facilities and transmission and distribution facilities may be targets
of terrorist activities that could result in disruption of our ability to
produce or distribute some portion of our energy products. Any such disruption
could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional
costs to repair and insure our assets, which could have a material adverse
impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  The potential for terrorism has subjected our
operations to increased risks and could have a material adverse effect on our
business.  While we have already incurred
increased costs for security and capital expenditures in response to these
risks, we may experience additional capital and operating costs to implement
security for our plants, including our nuclear power plants under the NRC’s
design basis threat requirements, such as additional physical plant security
and additional security personnel. 

 

The insurance
industry has also been affected by these events.  To date, we have been able to obtain
insurance at satisfactory levels and terms; however, the availability of
insurance covering risks we and our competitors typically insure against may
decrease.  In addition, the insurance we
are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more
restrictive policy terms.

 

Reduced coal
availability could negatively impact our business.

 

Xcel Energy’s coal generation portfolio is heavily dependent on coal
supplies located in the Powder River Basin of Wyoming.  Approximately 70 percent of our annual coal
requirement comes from this area. Coal generation comprises approximately 60
percent to 85 percent of our annual generation for the operating
utilities.  In the first half of 2005, we
began experiencing disruptions in our coal deliveries from the Powder River
Basin, which continued throughout the year and are expected to continue at
least through part of 2006.  In response
to these disruptions Xcel Energy mitigated the impact of reduced coal
deliveries, by modifying the dispatch of certain facilities to conserve coal
inventories. In addition to the mitigation efforts, Xcel Energy negotiated for
the acquisition of additional, higher capacity rail cars and is working to
upgrade certain coal handling facilities with completion anticipated in the
first half of 2006.  Despite, these
efforts, coal inventories have declined to below target levels. While we have
secured, under contract, approximately 99 percent of our anticipated 2006 coal
requirements, we cannot predict with any certainty the likelihood of receiving
the required coal.  This factor, combined
with the currently low inventory levels, has led us to continue coal mitigation.  While we are planning to rebuild inventories
during 2006, there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so.   The ultimate impact of coal availability
cannot be fully assessed at this time, but could impact our future
results.  

 

Rising energy prices could negatively impact our business.

 

A variety of
market factors have contributed to higher natural gas prices.  The direct impact of these higher costs is
generally mitigated for Xcel Energy through recovery of such costs from
customers through various fuel cost recovery mechanisms.  However, higher fuel costs could
significantly impact the results of operations, if requests for recovery are
unsuccessful.  In addition, the higher
fuel costs could reduce customer demand or increase bad debt expense, which
could also have a material impact on Xcel Energy’s results of operations.  Delays in the timing of the collection of
fuel cost recoveries as compared with expenditures for fuel purchases are
expected to have an impact on the cash flows of Xcel Energy.  Xcel Energy is unable to predict the future
natural gas prices or the ultimate impact of such prices on its results of
operations or cash flows.

 

Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis
and can be adversely affected by milder weather.

 

Our electric
and natural gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses and weather patterns
can have a material impact on our operating performance. Demand for electricity
is often greater in the summer and winter months associated with cooling and
heating. Because natural gas is heavily used for residential and commercial
heating, the demand for this product depends heavily upon weather patterns
throughout our service territory and a significant amount of natural gas
revenues are recognized in the first and fourth quarters related to the heating
season. Accordingly, our operations have historically generated less revenues
and income when weather conditions are milder in the winter and cooler in the
summer. We expect that unusually mild winters and summers would have an adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

 

Our natural gas distribution activities involve numerous risks that may
result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.

 

There are
inherent in our natural gas distribution activities a variety of hazards and
operating risks, such as leaks, explosions and mechanical problems, that could
cause substantial financial losses.  In
addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to
property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations and substantial
losses to us.  In accordance with
customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all,
of these risks and losses.

 

42












 

The occurrence
of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could have a material
adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations.  For our distribution lines located near
populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers,
industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damages
resulting from these risks is greater.

 

Increasing costs associated with our defined benefit retirement plans,
health care plans and other employee-related benefits may adversely affect our
results of operations, financial position, or liquidity.

 

We have
defined benefit and postretirement plans that cover substantially all of our
employees.  Assumptions related to future
costs, return on investments, interest rates and other actuarial assumptions
have a significant impact on our earnings and funding requirements.  Based on our assumptions at Dec. 31,
2005 and assuming continuation of the current federal interest rate relief
beyond 2005, in order to maintain required funding levels for our pension
plans, we do not expect to make required future contributions.  However, it is our practice to make voluntary
contributions to maintain more prudent funding levels than minimally
required.  These amounts are estimates
and may change based on actual stock market performance, changes in interest
rates and any changes in governmental regulations.  Therefore, contributions could be required in
the future.

 

In addition to
the costs of our retirement plans, the costs of providing health care benefits
to our employees and retirees have increased substantially in recent
years.  We believe that our employee
benefit costs, including costs related to health care plans for our employees
and former employees, will continue to rise. 
The increasing costs and funding requirements with our defined benefit
retirement plan, health care plans and other employee benefits may adversely
affect our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity.  

 

Risks
Associated with Our Holding Company Structure

 

We must rely on cash from our subsidiaries to make dividend payments.

 

We are a
holding company and thus our investments in our subsidiaries are our primary
assets. Substantially all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries.
Consequently, our operating cash flow and our ability to service our
indebtedness and pay dividends, depends upon the operating cash flow of our
subsidiaries and the payment of funds by them to us in the form of dividends.
Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any
amounts due pursuant to our obligations or to make any funds available for that
purpose or for dividends on our common stock, whether by dividends or
otherwise. In addition, each subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends to us
depends on any statutory and/or contractual restrictions that may be applicable
to such subsidiary, which may include requirements to maintain minimum levels
of equity ratios, working capital or other assets.

 

Our utility
subsidiaries are regulated by various state utility commissions which generally
possess broad powers to ensure that the needs of the utility customers are
being met. To the extent that the state commissions attempt to impose
restrictions on the ability of our utility subsidiaries to pay dividends to us,
it could adversely affect our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and
preferred stock or otherwise meet our financial obligations.

 

Our utility subsidiaries are 
subject to regulatory restrictions on accessing capital.

 

Financings by
our utility subsidiaries are subject to prior approval by the applicable state
regulatory commission and, possibly, by the FERC.  The state utility commissions generally
posses broad powers to ensure the needs of the utility customers are being met
and there is no assurance they will authorize financings in amounts requested
by our utility subsidiaries.

 

For additional
information regarding our liquidity and capital resources, see Item 7 –
Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

 

Any reductions in our credit ratings could increase our financing costs
and the cost of maintaining certain contractual relationships.

 

We cannot
assure you that any of our current ratings or our subsidiaries’ ratings will
remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be
lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment,
circumstances in the future so warrant. 
Any future downgrade could increase the cost of short-term borrowings
but would not result in any defaults or accelerations as a result of the rating
changes.  Any downgrade could lead to
higher borrowing costs.

 

43












 

Certain provisions of law, as well as provisions in our bylaws and
shareholder rights plan, may make it more difficult for others to obtain
control of us, even though some shareholders might consider this favorable.

 

We are a
Minnesota corporation and certain anti-takeover provisions of Minnesota law
apply to us and create various impediments to the acquisition of control of us
or to the consummation of certain business combinations with us.  In addition, our shareholder rights plan
contains provisions which may make it more difficult to effect certain business
combinations with us without the approval of our board of directors.  Finally, certain federal and state utility
regulatory statutes may also make it difficult for another party to acquire a
controlling interest in us.  These
provisions of law and of our corporate documents, individually or in the
aggregate, could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual
shareholders might deem to be in their best interests or in which shareholders
would receive a premium for their shares over current prices.

 

Item 1B