ITEM 1A.


 


RISK
  FACTORS







 


 




          Any
of the following risk factors could have a significant or material adverse
effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and/or
liquidity, in addition to the other information contained in this report.
Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial
may also impair the Company’s business, financial condition and results of
operations. 

Risks Related to the Company 

A downgrade in the
Company’s credit ratings by one or more rating agencies could materially and
negatively impact its business, financial condition, results of operations
and/or liquidity. 

          As
the Company’s ability to underwrite business is dependent upon the quality of
its claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by these
independent rating agencies, a further downgrade by any of these institutions
could cause its competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry
to suffer and make it more difficult for the Company to market its products. A
downgrade could also result in a substantial loss of business for the Company
as ceding companies and brokers that place such business may move to other insurers
and reinsurers with higher ratings. 

          A
downgrade of the A.M. Best financial strength rating of XL Capital Ltd, XL
Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd or XL Re Ltd below “A-”, which is currently
two notches below the Company’s current A.M. Best rating of “A” (“A+” as
at December 31, 2007), would constitute an event of default under the Company’s
letter of credit and revolving credit facilities. As well, similar downgrades
by A.M. Best or S&P have the ability to trigger cancellation provisions in
the majority of the Company’s assumed reinsurance contracts. See “—Risks
Related to the Company—A decline in the Company’s ratings may allow
many of its clients to terminate their contracts with the Company,” below.
Either of these events could reduce the Company’s financial flexibility
and materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results
of operations. For details of the Company’s current ratings and recent rating
agency actions, refer to Part I, Item 1, “Business.”

22




A decline in the
Company’s ratings may allow many of its clients to terminate their contracts
with the Company. 

          The
majority of the Company’s assumed reinsurance contracts contain provisions that
would allow its clients to cancel the contract in the event of a downgrade in
its ratings below specified levels by one or more rating agencies. Based on
premium value, approximately 60% of the Company’s reinsurance contracts that
incepted at January 1, 2007 contained provisions allowing clients additional
rights upon a decline in the Company’s ratings. 

          Typically,
the cancellation provisions in the Company’s assumed reinsurance contracts
would be triggered if S&P or A.M. Best were to downgrade the Company’s
financial strength ratings below “A-”, which is currently three levels
below its current S&P rating of “A+” and two levels below its current
A.M. Best rating of “A.” Whether a client would exercise its cancellation
rights after such a downgrade would likely depend, among other things, on the
reasons for the downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market
conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage, and the pricing and availability
of replacement reinsurance coverage. In the event of such a downgrade, the Company
cannot predict whether or how many of the Company’s clients would actually
exercise such cancellation rights or the extent to which any such cancellations
would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition
or future prospects. 

The Company’s
financial condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of disasters.


          The
Company has substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural and man-made
disasters and other catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by various
events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, hailstorms, explosions,
severe winter weather, fires, war, acts of terrorism, political instability and
other natural or man-made disasters. The incidence and severity of catastrophes
are inherently unpredictable and the Company’s losses from catastrophes could
be substantial. 

          The
occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in
substantial volatility in the Company’s financial condition and results of
operations for the fiscal quarter or year in which a catastrophic event occurs,
as well as subsequent fiscal periods, and could have a material adverse effect
on its financial condition and results of operations and its ability to write
new business. This risk is exacerbated due to accounting principles and rules
that do not permit reinsurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until
they occur. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of
insured property will increase the severity of catastrophic events in the
future. Although the Company attempts to manage its exposure to catastrophic
events, a single catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones and
lines of business and the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could
exceed its estimates, in each case potentially having a material adverse effect
on its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, while the
Company may, depending on market conditions, purchase catastrophe reinsurance
and retrocessional protection, the occurrence of one or more major catastrophes
in any given period could result in losses that exceed such reinsurance and
retrocessional protection and have a material adverse effect on its financial
condition and results of operations and result in substantial liquidation of
investments and outflows of cash as losses are paid.

The failure of any
of the underwriting risk management strategies that the Company employs could
have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of
operations and/or liquidity. 

          The
Company seeks to limit its loss exposure by, among other things, writing a
number of its reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to
maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones,
limiting program size for each client and prudently underwriting each program
written. In addition, in the case of proportional treaties, the Company
generally seeks to use per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit
the impact of losses from any one event. The Company cannot be sure that all of
these loss limitation methods will have the precise risk management impact
intended. For instance, although the Company also seeks to limit its loss
exposure by geographic diversification, geographic zone limitations involve
significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of
the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s
limits. Underwriting involves the exercise of considerable judgment and the
making of important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable
and beyond the Company’s control, and for which historical experience and
probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. The failure of any of
the underwriting risk management strategies that the Company employs could have
a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.
Also, the Company cannot provide assurance that various provisions of its
policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum,
will be enforceable in the manner that it intends and disputes relating to
coverage and choice of legal forum may arise, which could materially adversely
affect its financial condition and results of operations. 

If actual claims
exceed the Company’s loss reserves, its financial results could be adversely
affected. 

          The
Company’s results of operations and financial condition depend upon its ability
to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that it
insures and reinsures. The Company establishes reserves for unpaid losses and
loss adjustment expense (“LAE”) liabilities, which are estimates of future
payments of reported and unreported claims for losses and related expenses with
respect to insured events that have occurred. The process of establishing
reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to
considerable variability as it requires the use of informed estimates and
judgments. Actuarial estimates of unpaid loss and LAE liabilities are subject
to potential errors of estimation, which could be significant, due to the fact
that the ultimate disposition of claims incurred prior to the date of such
estimation, whether reported or not, is subject to the outcome of events that
have not yet 

23




occurred.
Examples of these events include the accuracy of the factual information on
which the estimates were based, especially as this develops, jury decisions,
court interpretations, legislative changes, changes in the medical condition of
claimants, public attitudes, and economic conditions such as inflation. Any
estimate of future costs is subject to the inherent limitation on the ability
to predict the aggregate course of future events. It should therefore be
expected that the actual emergence of loss and LAE liabilities will vary,
perhaps materially, from any estimate. 

          Similarly,
the actual emergence of claims for life business may vary from the assumptions
underlying the policy benefit reserves, in particular, the future mortality
improvements on the blocks of in-payment annuities. 

          In
relation to financial guarantee business and related exposures, primarily
through the Company’s exposures to reinsurance agreements with SCA, the
Company establishes reserves for losses and loss adjustment expenses on such
business based on management’s best estimate of the ultimate expected incurred
losses. The Company’s estimated ultimate expected incurred losses are comprised
of: (i) case basis reserves, (ii) unallocated reserves, and (iii) cumulative
paid losses to date. Establishment of such reserves requires the use and exercise
of significant judgment by management, including with respect to estimates
regarding the occurrence and amount of a loss on an insured or reinsured
obligation. Estimates of losses may differ from actual results and such
difference may be material, due to the fact that the ultimate dispositions of
claims are subject to the outcome of events that have not yet occurred.
Examples of these events include changes in the level of interest rates, credit
deterioration of insured and reinsured obligations, and changes in the value
of specific assets supporting insured and reinsured obligations. Both qualitative
and quantitative factors are used in establishing such reserves. In determining
the reserves, management considers all factors in the aggregate, and does not
attribute the reserve provisions or any portion thereof to any specific factor. In
general, guarantees written in credit default swap form are exposed to the same
risks as noted above, except in events of default by the guarantor. Credit
default swaps, however, do not qualify for the financial guarantee scope exception
under FAS 133, and, therefore are reported at fair value with changes in the
fair value included in earnings. Fair value for such swaps are determined
based on methodologies further described in Item 7 “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting
Policies and Estimates.” Under most of the credit default swap contracts
insured by XLCA, and reinsured by the Company, it would be an event of default
if XLCA should become insolvent. If there were an event of default, by
XLCA, the holders of these swaps would have the right to terminate the swaps
and to obtain a termination payment from XLCA, and possibly, the Company, under
the Company’s reinsurance agreements or guarantees, based on the market value
of the swaps at the time of termination. Any estimate of future
costs is subject to the inherent limitation on the Company’s ability to predict the aggregate course of future events. It should
therefore be expected that the actual emergence of losses and loss adjustment
expenses will vary, perhaps materially, from any estimate.

          The
Company has an actuarial staff in each of its operating segments that regularly
evaluates the levels of loss reserves, taking into consideration factors that
may impact the ultimate losses incurred. Any such evaluation could result in
future changes in estimates of losses or reinsurance recoverable and would be
reflected in its results of operations in the period in which the estimates are
changed. Losses and loss expenses, to the extent that they exceed the
applicable reserves, are charged to income as incurred. The reserve for unpaid
losses and loss expenses represents the estimated ultimate losses and loss
expenses less paid losses and loss expenses, and comprises case reserves and
incurred but not reported loss reserves (“IBNR”). During the loss settlement
period, which can span many years in duration for casualty business, additional
facts regarding individual claims and trends often will become known and case
reserves may be adjusted by allocation from IBNR without any change in the
overall reserve. In addition, application of statistical and actuarial methods
may require the adjustment of the overall reserves upward or downward from time
to time. Accordingly, the ultimate settlement of losses may be significantly
greater than or less than reported loss and loss expense reserves. 

If the Company’s guarantee agreements with
SCA are triggered, there may be a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity.

          The
    Company has entered into certain agreements with subsidiaries of SCA which
unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee: (i) XL Capital Assurance (“XLCA”)
for the full and complete performance when due of all of XL Financial Assurance’s
(“XLFA”) obligations under its facultative quota share reinsurance
agreement with XLCA, (ii) the full and complete payments when due of XLCA’s
obligations under certain financial guarantees issued by XLCA and arranged by
XL Capital Assurance (U.K.) Limited and (iii) Financial Security Assurance (“FSA”)
for the full and complete performance of XLFA’s obligations under a FSA
Master Facultative Agreement. These guarantee agreements terminated with respect
to any new business produced through the underlying agreements after the effective
date of the IPO, but the agreements remain in effect with respect to cessions
or guarantees written under these agreements prior to the IPO. The aggregate
net par value outstanding of business guaranteed by the Company under these
agreements was approximately $75.2 billion as of December 31, 2007. Upon the
occurrence of both of the following events, the Company must pay obligations
on the above noted guarantee agreements and such obligations could be material:
a) the underlying guaranteed obligation must default on payments of interest
or principal, and b) the relevant SCA subsidiary must fail to meet its
obligations under the applicable reinsurance or guarantee. Based on all of the
above factors, as well as the Company’s current estimates of defaults on
the relevant underlying obligations and the Company’s judgment as to the
current financial resources of the relevant SCA subsidiaries, the Company has
concluded that no losses are expected under these guarantees and accordingly
no loss reserves have been recorded. Future developments including, but not limited to, (i) higher than
expected defaults or accelerated adverse cash flows on relevant underlying obligations of SCA’s subsidiaries
and the adequacy of the claims paying ability of those SCA subsidiaries or (ii) the accelerated
adverse payments on certain credit default swaps occuring as a result of the insolvency of SCA could
expose the Company to potential loss payments under one or more of the guarantees
which could be material to the Company. In particular, under most of the credit default swaps insured by XLCA, it would
be an event of default if XLCA were to become insolvent. While this event of default continued,
the holders of these credit default swaps would have the right to terminate these agreements
and to obtain a termination payment from XLCA based on the present market value of the swaps
at the time of termination. Under current market conditions, this would result in a substantial
liability to XLCA which may be in excess of its ability to pay. If such an event were to occur, the
likelihood of potential loss payments under one or more of the Company's various guarantees to
subsidiaries of SCA would increase.

Operational risks,
including human or systems failures, are inherent in the Company’s business.


          Operational
risk and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document
transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to
comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, or
external events. 

          The
Company believes that its modeling, underwriting and information technology and
application systems are critical to its business. Moreover, the Company’s
information technology and application systems have been an important part of
its underwriting 

24




process and
its ability to compete successfully. The Company has also licensed certain
systems and data from third parties. The Company cannot be certain that it will
have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that its information
technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. A major
defect or failure in its internal controls or information technology and
application systems could result in management distraction, harm to the
Company’s reputation or increased expense. 

          In
particular, the Company has outsourced the day-to-day management, custody and
record-keeping of its investment portfolio to third-party managers and
custodians that it believes to be reputable. A major defect in those investment
managers’ investment management strategy, information and technology systems,
internal controls or decision-making could result in management distraction
and/or significant financial loss. A major defect in custodian internal
controls or information and technology systems could result in management
distraction or significant financial loss. 

          The
Company believes appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to
prevent significant risk of defect in its internal controls, information
technology, application systems, investment management and custody and record-keeping,
but internal controls provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to
the absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such
controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on its business. 

The effects of emerging
claim and coverage issues on the Company’s business are uncertain.


          As
industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental
conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.
These issues may adversely affect its business by either extending coverage
beyond its underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims.
In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after
the Company has issued the insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected
by the changes. For example, the Company’s actual losses may vary materially
from its current estimate of the loss based on a number of factors, including
receipt of additional information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of
losses to coverages that had not previously been considered as exposed and
inflation in repair costs due to additional demand for labor and materials. As
a result, the full extent of liability under an insurance or reinsurance
contract may not be known for many years after such contract is issued and a
loss occurs. 

The Company may
require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to it on
satisfactory terms, on a timely basis or at all. 

          The
Company’s future capital requirements depend on many factors, including its
ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and
reserves at levels sufficient to cover its losses. To the extent that the funds
generated by its ongoing operations are insufficient to fund future operating
requirements and cover claim payments, the Company may need to raise additional
funds through financings or curtail its growth and reduce its assets. Any
future equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are
favorable to the Company, if at all. Any future equity financings could be
dilutive to the Company’s existing shareholders or could result in the issuance
of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to
those of its other securities. The Company’s inability to obtain adequate
capital could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial
condition and results of operations. 

          Under
Rule 3-09 of  Regulation S-X, the Company is required to file separate audited
financial statements of SCA  (the “SCA Financials”).  The SCA Financials
were not available at the time of filing this Annual Report on Form 10-K (the “10-K”). The Company intends to  file the SCA Financials
as an exhibit to an amendment to the 10-K (the “10-K/A”)
as soon as they are available. Until such time, the Company may not satisfy the
registrant  requirements for use of Form S-3 and therefore may be ineligible
to use such Form.  Should the Company be unable to file the 10-K/A on or before
March 17, 2008, the Company may be  ineligible to use Form S-3 for a period of
twelve months. This restriction could adversely affect the Company’s ability
to raise capital.
The Company may be
unable to purchase reinsurance and, even if it is able to successfully purchase
reinsurance, the Company is subject to the possibility of uncollectability.


          The
Company purchases reinsurance for its own account in order to mitigate the
volatility that losses impose on its financial condition. The Company’s clients
purchase reinsurance from the Company to cover part of the risk originally
written by them. Retrocessional reinsurance involves a reinsurer ceding to
another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that
the first reinsurer has assumed. Reinsurance, including retrocessional
reinsurance, does not legally discharge the ceding company from its liability
with respect to its obligations to its insureds or reinsureds. A reinsurer’s or
retrocessionaire’s insolvency, inability or refusal to make timely payments
under the terms of its agreements with the Company, therefore, could have a
material adverse effect on the Company because it remains liable to its
insureds and reinsureds. At December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately
$5.5 billion of reinsurance recoverables and reinsurance balances receivable,
net of reserves for uncollectible recoverables. For further information
regarding the Company’s reinsurance exposure, see Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 

          From
time to time, market conditions may limit or prevent the Company from obtaining
the types and amounts of reinsurance that it considers adequate for its
business needs such that it may not be able to obtain reinsurance or retrocessional
reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness in amounts that it
deems desirable or on terms that it deems appropriate or acceptable. 

Since the Company
depends on a few brokers for a large portion of its revenues, loss of business
provided by any one of them could adversely affect the Company.


          The
Company markets its insurance and reinsurance products worldwide primarily
through insurance and reinsurance brokers. Marsh & McLennan Companies and
AON Corporation and their respective subsidiaries provided approximately 18%
and 17%, respectively, of its gross written premiums for property and casualty
operations for the year ended December 31, 2007. Loss of all or a substantial
portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s business. 

25




The Company’s
reliance on brokers subjects it to credit risk. 

          In
certain jurisdictions, when an insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for
policies of insurance or contracts of reinsurance to brokers for further
payment to the Company, such premiums might be considered to have been paid and
the insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for such amounts,
whether or not the Company has actually received the premiums from the broker.
In addition, in accordance with industry practice, the Company generally pays
amounts owed on claims under its reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these
brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased
reinsurance from it. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts
and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker
fails to make such a claims payment to the insured or ceding insurer, the
Company might remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for that
non-payment. Consequently, the Company assumes a degree of credit risk
associated with the brokers with whom it transacts business. Due to the
unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law governing these types of
scenarios, the Company is unable to quantify its exposure to this risk. To
date, the Company has not experienced any material losses related to such
credit risks. 

The Company’s
investment performance may adversely affect its financial results and ability
to conduct business. 

          The
Company’s assets are invested by a number of professional investment advisory
management firms under the direction of its management team in accordance, in
general, with detailed investment guidelines set by the Company. Although the
Company’s investment policies stress diversification of risks, conservation of
principal and liquidity, its investments are subject to market-wide risks and
fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. Investment
losses could significantly decrease the Company’s asset base, thereby adversely
affecting its ability to conduct business and pay claims. 

The Company is
exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest
rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates which may
adversely affect its results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.


          The
Company is exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in
interest rates, credit spreads and defaults, market liquidity, equity
    prices and foreign currency exchange rates. If significant, changes in interest
    rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, market liquidity, declines
    in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies
    against the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material
    adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition
    or cash flows through realized losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized
    positions. Levels of write down or impairment are impacted by the Company’s
    assessment of the intent and ability to hold securities which have declined
    in value until recovery. 

          The
Company’s exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price
and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. The
Company’s investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments,
such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in
interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international
economic and political conditions and other factors beyond its control. A rise
in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of the
Company’s investment portfolio, offset by its ability to earn higher rates of
return on funds reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would
decrease the net unrealized loss position of the Company’s investment
portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. The Company’s
mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused
towards maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that
has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of
its estimated liability cash flow profile. However, the Company’s estimate of
the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and the Company may be forced
to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover
liabilities. Although the Company takes measures to manage the economic risks of
investing in a changing interest rate environment, the Company may not be able
to mitigate the interest rate risk of its assets relative to its liabilities. 

          The
Company’s fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in high quality,
investment-grade securities. However, as part of its risk asset portfolio, the
Company invests in below investment-grade high yield fixed income securities.
These securities, which pay a higher rate of interest, also have a higher
degree of credit or default risk. Certain sectors within the investment and
below investment grade fixed income market, such as structured and corporate
credit may be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions.
While the Company has put in place procedures to monitor the credit risk and
liquidity of its invested assets, in general and those impacted by recent
credit market issues specifically, it is possible that, in periods of economic
weakness or periods of turmoil in capital markets, the Company may experience
default losses in its portfolio, in particular the structured credit portfolio.
This may result in a material reduction of net income, capital and cash flows.
Beginning in the latter half of 2007, increasing delinquencies in U.S.
residential collateral in various securitized products has lead to increased
volatility and decreased liquidity across financial markets as a whole. Decreases
in market liquidity have increased the difficulty and volatility in pricing across
credit exposed markets. Such illiquidity volatility and related uncertainty may persist or
even worsen in the future.

          The
Company invests a portion of its portfolio in common stock or equity-related
securities such as hedge funds and private investments. The value of these
assets fluctuates, among with other factors, with equity and credit markets. In
times of economic weakness, the market value and liquidity of these assets may
decline, and may impact net income, capital, and cash flows. In addition,
certain of the products offered by the Company’s Life Operations segment offer
guaranteed benefits which increase its potential benefit exposure should equity
markets decline. 

          The
functional currencies of the Company’s principal insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries include the U.S. dollar, U.K. sterling, the Euro, the Swiss Franc,
and the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations relative to the functional
currencies may materially impact the Company’s financial position and results
of operations. Many of the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets
and liabilities in currencies different to their functional currency, which
exposes it to changes in currency exchange rates. 

26




In addition,
locally-required capital levels are invested in local currencies in order to
satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations
regardless of currency fluctuations. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as
part of the Company’s risk management process. While the Company utilizes
derivative instruments such as futures, options and foreign currency forward
contracts to, among other things, manage its foreign currency exposure, it is
possible that these instruments will not effectively mitigate all or a
substantial portion of its foreign exchange rate risk. 

Current legal and
regulatory activities relating to insurance brokers and agents, contingent
commissions, the municipal guaranteed investment contract market and the
financial guarantee market could adversely affect the Company’s business,
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, lawsuits, including
putative class action lawsuits, have been filed against the Company by policyholders
and security holders the ultimate outcome of which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, future
operating results and/or liquidity. 

          Contingent
commission arrangements have been a focus of investigations by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the U.S. Attorney’s Offices,
certain state Attorneys General and insurance departments. Due to various
governmental investigations into contingent commission practices, various market
participants have modified or eliminated acquisition expenses formerly arising
from Placement Service Agreements (“PSAs”). As a result, it is possible that
policy commissions or brokerage that the Company pays may increase in the
future and/or that different forms of contingent commissions will develop in
the future. Any such additional expense could have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s financial conditions or results. 


          A
subsidiary of the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the Antitrust
Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York
seeking documents in connection with an investigation into the municipal
guaranteed investment contract (“GIC”) market and related products.
The Company is fully cooperating with this investigation.
Recently,
certain State Attorneys General have commenced investigations of providers of
financial guarantee (re)insurance related to the (re)insurance of municipal
bonds.

          At
this time, the Company is unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that
these investigations may have upon us, the insurance and reinsurance markets in
general or industry and reinsurance business practices or what, if any, changes
may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry. Any of the
foregoing could also result in litigation or otherwise adversely affect its
business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

          The
Company is subject to lawsuits and arbitrations in the regular course of its
business. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against the Company as detailed
in “Legal Proceedings.” The Company believes that the ultimate outcome of all
outstanding litigation and arbitration will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, operating results and/or
liquidity, although an adverse resolution of one or more of these items could
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in a
particular fiscal quarter or year. 

The loss of one or
more key executives or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel
could adversely affect the Company’s ability to conduct business.


          The
Company’s success depends on its ability to retain the services of its existing
key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the
future. The loss of the services of any of the Company’s key executives or the
inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future
could adversely affect its ability to conduct its business. In addition, the
Company does not maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to its
employees. 

          In
October 2007, a Succession Plan Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors
was created following the announcement that Mr. Brian O’Hara, President and
Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of the Company, had informed the Company’s
Board of Directors of his decision to retire as President and CEO in mid-2008.
The Succession Plan Committee continues to identify and evaluate potential
candidates to succeed the current CEO.

          Many
of the Company’s senior executives working in Bermuda are not Bermudian and the
Company’s success may depend in part on the continued services of key employees
in Bermuda. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians
and holders of permanent resident certificates) may not engage in any gainful
occupation in Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. A work
permit may be granted or renewed by the Bermuda government for a specific
period of time, upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no
Bermudian (or spouse of a Bermudian or holder of a permanent 

27




resident
certificate) is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required
by an employer with respect to a certain position. The government of Bermuda
places a six-year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to
certain exemptions for key employees. No assurances can be given that any work
permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the
relevant term. 

Because the Company
is a holding company, if its subsidiaries do not make dividend and other
payments to it, it may not be able to pay dividends or make payments on its
debt securities and other obligations. 

          As
a holding company with no direct operations or significant assets other than
the capital stock of its subsidiaries, the Company relies on investment income,
cash dividends and other permitted payments from its subsidiaries to make
principal and interest payments on its debt, to pay operating expenses and
common and preferred shareholder dividends and to pay certain of its other
obligations that may arise from time to time. The Company expects future
investment income, dividends and other permitted payments from these
subsidiaries to be its principal source of funds to pay such expenses,
preferred and common stock dividends and obligations. The payment of dividends
to the Company by its insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries is limited under
Bermuda laws and certain insurance statutes of various states in the United
States in which its insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are licensed to
transact business. 

          The
Company’s U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to state
regulatory restrictions that generally require cash dividends to be paid only
out of earned statutory surplus. Further, the amount payable without the prior
approval of the applicable state insurance department is generally limited to
the greater of 10% of policyholders’ surplus or statutory capital, or 100% of
the subsidiary’s prior year statutory net income. In addition, Bermuda
insurance laws and regulations (i) require the Company’s insurance and
reinsurance subsidiaries to maintain certain minimum solvency margins and
minimum liquidity ratios, (ii) prohibit dividends that would result in a breach
of these requirements, and (iii) limit the amount by which the Company can
reduce surplus without prior approval from the Bermuda Monetary Authority. 

          In
addition, the ability of the Company’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries
to pay dividends could be constrained by its dependence on financial strength
ratings from independent rating agencies. The Company’s ratings from these
agencies depend to a large extent on the capitalization levels of its insurance
and reinsurance subsidiaries. Any such restriction on the Company’s insurance
and reinsurance subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to it could have a
material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.
The Company’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries may not always be able to,
or may not, pay preferred and common stock dividends to it sufficient to make
its debt payments and pay its operating expenses, shareholder dividends or
other obligations. 

Risks Related to the Insurance and
Reinsurance Industries

The insurance and
reinsurance industries are historically cyclical and the Company may experience
periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates.


          The
insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical,
characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess
underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted
favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often offset by an
increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital
provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing
insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Either of these
factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable
policy terms and conditions and fewer submissions for the Company’s underwriting
services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and
severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of
the insurance and reinsurance industries significantly. 

Competition in the
insurance and reinsurance industries could reduce the Company’s operating
margins. 

          The
insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. The Company
competes on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermudian,
European and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting
syndicates, some of which have greater financial and management resources than
it does. The Company also competes with new companies that continue to be
formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital
market participants have recently created alternative products that are
intended to compete with reinsurance products. Increased competition could
result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy
terms and conditions, which could reduce the Company’s margins. 

Unanticipated losses
from terrorism and uncertainty surrounding the future of the TRIPRA could have
a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of
operations. 

          In
response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance
markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11 event, TRIP was
created upon the enactment of TRIA in 2002 to ensure the availability of
commercial insurance coverage for certain terrorist acts in the U.S.. This law
established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help the
commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to
future terrorism-related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts
be offered by insurers. TRIA was originally scheduled to expire at the end of
2005, but was extended in December 2005 for an additional two years under
TRIAE. On December 26, 2007, President George Bush approved TRIPRA, extending TRIP
through December 31, 2014 and also eliminated the distinction between foreign
and domestic acts of terrorism.

28





          TRIA
voided in force terrorism exclusions as of November 26, 2002 for certified
terrorism on all TRIA specified property and casualty business. TRIA required
covered insurers to make coverage available for certified acts of terrorism on
all new and renewal policies issued after TRIA was enacted. TRIA along with
further extensions to TRIP, as noted above, allows the Company to assess a
premium charge for terrorism coverage and, if the policyholder declines the
coverage or fails to pay the buy-back premium, certified acts of terrorism may
then be excluded from the policy, subject, however, to state specific
requirements. Terrorism coverage cannot be excluded from workers’ compensation
policies. Subject to a premium-based deductible and provided that the Company
has otherwise complied with all the requirements as specified under TRIPRA, the
Company is eligible for reimbursement by the Federal Government for up to 85%
of its covered terrorism-related losses arising from a certified terrorist
attack. Such payment by the government will, in effect, provide reinsurance
protection on a quota share basis. Entitlement to such reimbursement ends once
the aggregated insured losses for the entire insurance industry exceed $100
billion in a single program year. 

          The
Company believes that TRIP and the related legislation has been an effective
mechanism to assist policyholders and industry participants with the extreme
contingent losses that might be caused by acts of terrorism. The Company cannot
assure you that TRIPRA will be extended beyond 2014, and its expiration could
have an adverse effect on the Company, its clients or the insurance industry. 

Potential government intervention in the Company’s industry
as a result of recent events and instability in the marketplace for insurance
products could hinder its flexibility and negatively affect the business
opportunities that may be available to it in the market.

          Government
intervention and the possibility of future government intervention have created
uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Government regulators are
generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of
other constituencies, including shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While
the Company cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible
governmental initiatives, such proposals could adversely affect its business
by, among other things: 




 


 


 




 


•


Providing insurance and reinsurance capacity in
 markets and to consumers that the Company targets, e.g., the creation or expansion
 of a state or federal catastrophe funds such as those in Florida;




 


 


 




 


•


Requiring the Company’s participation in industry
 pools and guarantee associations;




 


 


 




 


•


Expanding the scope of coverage under existing
 policies;




 


 


 




 


•


Regulating the terms of insurance and reinsurance
 policies; or




 


 


 




 


•


Disproportionately benefiting the companies of one
 country over those of another.




          The
insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and legal
developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability, which may
result in unexpected claims frequency & severity and delays or
cancellations of products and services by insureds, insurers and reinsurers
which could adversely affect the Company’s business. 

Consolidation in the insurance industry could adversely
impact the Company. 

          Insurance
industry participants may seek to expand through mergers and acquisitions.
Continued consolidation within the insurance industry will further enhance the
already competitive underwriting environment as the Company would likely
experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors.
These consolidated entities may use their enhanced market power and broader
capital base to negotiate price reductions for the Company’s products and
services, and reduce their use of reinsurance, and as such, it may experience
rate declines and possibly write less business. 

Risks Related to Regulation 

The regulatory regimes under which the Company operates, and
potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on its
business. 

          The
Company’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries operate in 28 countries around
the world as well as in all 50 U.S. states. The Company’s operations in each of
these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and
supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the Company’s
insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other
things, that these subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of statutory capital,
surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations
of their financial condition and restrict payments of dividends and reductions
of capital. Statutes, regulations and policies that the Company’s insurance and
reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to may also restrict the ability of these
subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make certain
investments and distribute funds. 

          In
recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased
federal scrutiny. In addition, some state legislatures have considered or
enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and
reinsurance companies and

29




holding companies. Moreover, the National Association
of Insurance Commissioners, which is the organization of insurance regulators
from the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and the four U.S.
territories, as well as state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing
laws and regulations. 

          The
Company may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain desired exemptions
from, revised statutes, regulations and policies that govern the conduct of its
business. Failure to comply with, or to obtain desired authorizations and/or
exemptions under, any applicable laws could result in restrictions on the
Company’s ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in
one or more of the jurisdictions in which it operates and could subject it to
fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to
which the Company’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject, or in
the interpretations thereof by enforcement or regulatory agencies, could have a
material adverse effect on its business.

If the Company’s Bermuda operating subsidiaries become
subject to insurance statutes and regulations in jurisdictions other than
Bermuda or if there is a change in Bermuda law or regulations or the
application of Bermuda law or regulations, there could be a significant and
negative impact on the Company’s business. 

          XL
Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd, two of the Company’s wholly-owned
operating subsidiaries, are registered Bermuda Class 4 insurers. As such, they
are subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Bermuda insurance
statutes and the regulations and policies of the Bermuda Monetary Authority
require XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd to, among other things: 




 


 


 




 


•


maintain a minimum level of capital and surplus;




 


 


 




 


•


maintain solvency margins and liquidity ratios;




 


 


 




 


•


restrict dividends and distributions;




 


 


 




 


•


obtain prior approval regarding the ownership and
 transfer of shares;




 


 


 




 


•


maintain a principal office and appoint and maintain
 a principal representative in Bermuda;




 


 


 




 


•


file an annual statutory financial return; and




 


 


 




 


•


allow for the performance of certain periodic
 examinations of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd and their respective
 financial conditions.




          These
statutes and regulations may restrict the Company’s ability to write insurance
and reinsurance policies, distribute funds and pursue its investment strategy. 

          The
Company does not presently intend for XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd
to be admitted to do business in the United States, the United Kingdom or any
jurisdiction other than Bermuda. However, the Company cannot provide assurance
that insurance regulators in the United States, the United Kingdom or elsewhere
will not review the activities of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd or XL Re Ltd,
their respective subsidiaries or their agents and claim that XL Insurance
(Bermuda) Ltd or XL Re Ltd is subject to such jurisdiction’s licensing
requirements. If any such claim is successful and XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd or
XL Re Ltd must obtain licenses in a jurisdiction other than Bermuda, the
Company may be subject to taxation in such jurisdiction. 

          In
addition, XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd are subject to indirect
regulatory requirements imposed by jurisdictions that may limit their ability
to provide insurance or reinsurance to that jurisdiction’s domestic insurers or
reinsurers. For example, the ability of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re
Ltd to write insurance or reinsurance may be subject, in certain cases, to a
country’s limits on how much reinsurance can be purchased from non-domestic
reinsurers or requirements that such non-domestic reinsurers collateralize
their payment obligations to domestic ceding companies. If the Company is
unable to collateralize or provide other credit support for these reinsurance
clients on commercially reasonable terms, it could be limited in its ability to
write business for some of its clients. Proposed legislation and regulations
may have the effect of imposing additional requirements upon, or restricting
the market for, non-domestic insurers or reinsurers with whom domestic
companies place business. 

          Generally,
Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations applicable to XL Insurance (Bermuda)
Ltd and XL Re Ltd are less restrictive than those that would be applicable if
they were governed by the laws of any state in the United States. If in the
future the Company becomes subject to any insurance laws of the United States
or any state thereof or of any other jurisdiction, it cannot provide assurance
that it would be in compliance with such laws or that complying with such laws
would not have a significant and negative effect on its business. 

          The
process of obtaining licenses is very time consuming and costly and XL
Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd may not be able to become licensed in
jurisdictions other than Bermuda should the Company choose to do so. The
modification of the conduct of the Company’s business that would result if it
were required or chose to become licensed in certain jurisdictions could
significantly and negatively affect its financial condition and results of
operations. In addition, the Company’s inability to comply with

30




insurance statutes and regulations could significantly
and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations by
limiting its ability to conduct business as well as subjecting it to penalties
and fines. 

          Because
XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd are Bermuda companies, they are
subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse
impact on the Company’s operations, including through the imposition of tax
liability or increased regulatory supervision. In addition, XL Insurance
(Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd will be exposed to any changes in the political
environment in Bermuda, including, without limitation, changes as a result of
the independence issues currently being discussed in Bermuda. The Bermuda
insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to
increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom. While
the Company cannot predict the future impact on its operations of changes in
the laws and regulation to which it is or may become subject, any such changes
could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and
results of operations. 

Changes in current accounting practices and future
pronouncements may materially impact the Company’s reported financial results.


          Unanticipated
developments in accounting practices may require the Company to incur
considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly
if it is required to prepare information relating to prior periods for
comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact
of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be
predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity, and other relevant
financial statement line items. In particular, recent guidance and ongoing
projects put in place by standard setters globally have indicated a possible
move away from the current insurance accounting models toward more “fair value”
based models which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of
insurance industry participants.

          Furthermore,
rules relating to certain accounting practices in the financial guarantee
insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable
regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material
effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the
industry or particular market participants, including SCA.

          For
further details regarding risks related to financial guarantee insurance and
reinsurance, refer to SCA’s reports filed with the SEC.

Risks Related to Taxation

The Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries may
become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28, 2016, which may have a
material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations.

          The
Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries have received from the Ministry
of Finance in Bermuda exemptions from any Bermuda taxes that might be imposed
on profits, income or any capital asset, gain or appreciation until March 28,
2016. The exemptions are subject to the proviso that they are not construed so
as to prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are
ordinarily resident in Bermuda (the Company and its Bermuda insurance
subsidiaries are not so currently designated) and to prevent the application of
any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of The Land Tax Act 1967 or
otherwise payable in relation to the land leased to the Company and its Bermuda
insurance subsidiaries. The Company, as a permit company under The Companies
Act 1981 of Bermuda, have received similar exemptions, which are effective
until March 28, 2016. The Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are
required to pay certain annual Bermuda government fees and certain business
fees as an insurer under The Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda. Currently there is
no Bermuda withholding tax on dividends paid by the Company’s Bermuda insurance
subsidiaries to the Company. Given the limited duration of the Ministry of
Finance’s assurance, the Company cannot be certain that the Company or its
Bermuda insurance subsidiaries will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after
March 28, 2016. Such taxation could have a material adverse effect on its financial
condition and results of operations.

The Company may become subject to taxes in the Cayman
Islands after June 2, 2018, which may have a material adverse effect on its
results of operations.

          Under
current Cayman Islands law, the Company is not obligated to pay any taxes in
the Cayman Islands on its income or gains. The Company has received an
undertaking from the Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands pursuant to the
provisions of the Tax Concessions Law, as amended, that until June 2, 2018, (i)
no subsequently enacted law imposing any tax on profits, income, gains or
appreciation shall apply to it and (ii) no such tax and no tax in the nature of
an estate duty or an inheritance tax shall be payable on any of its ordinary
shares, debentures or other obligations. Under current law, no tax will be
payable on the transfer or other disposition of the Company’s ordinary shares.
The Cayman Islands currently impose stamp duties on certain categories of
documents; however, the Company’s current operations do not involve the payment
of stamp duties in any material amount. The Cayman Islands also currently
impose an annual corporate fee upon all exempted companies incorporated in the
Cayman Islands. Given the limited duration of the undertaking from the Governor-in-Council
of the Cayman Islands, the Company cannot be certain that it will not be
subject to any Cayman Islands tax after June 2, 2018. Such taxation could have
a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of
operations.

31




The Company and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries may
become subject to U.S. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on its
results of operations. 

          The
Company takes the position that neither it nor any of its Bermuda insurance
subsidiaries are engaged in a U.S. trade or business through a U.S. permanent
establishment. Accordingly, the Company takes the position that none of its
Bermuda insurance subsidiaries should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S.
excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring
or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source
investment income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to
the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the
United States, the Company cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service (the “IRS”) will not contend successfully that it or any of its Bermuda
insurance subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States.
If the Company or any of its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries were considered to
be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, any such entity could
be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the
portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which
case the Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected.

The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
is considering measures that might change the manner in which the Company is
taxed.

          On
June 27, 2005 the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”)
issued a discussion draft, “Attribution of Profits to a Permanent
Establishment—Release of Discussion Draft of Part IV (Insurance)” (the “Draft”),
which constitutes the fourth and final part of the report on OECD’s project to
establish a broad consensus regarding the interpretation and practical
application of Article 7 (“Article 7”) of the OECD Model Tax Convention on
Income and on Capital. Article 7 sets forth international tax principles for
attributing profits to a permanent establishment and forms the basis of an
extensive network of bilateral income tax treaties between OECD member
countries and between many OECD member and non-member countries. On December 21
2006, the OECD published new versions of Parts I, II and III. They also
announced that work on Part IV is ongoing and a revised draft was issued in
August 2007, followed by a consultation in November 2007. Further consultation
is anticipated in the first half of 2008. Once finalized, the conclusions of
Parts I-IV of the report will be implemented through revision of the Commentary
on Article 7 and/or Article 7 itself. 

If an investor acquires ten percent or more of XL Capital
Ltd’s shares, they may be subject to taxation under the “controlled foreign
corporation” (the CFC) rules. 

          Under
certain circumstances, a U.S. person who owns ten percent or more of the voting
power of a foreign corporation that is a CFC (a foreign corporation in which
ten percent U.S. shareholders own more than 50 percent of the voting power of
the foreign corporation or more than 25 percent of a foreign insurance company)
for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year must include
in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such “10 percent U.S.
Shareholder’s” pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the
subpart F income is not distributed to such 10 percent U.S. Shareholder if such
10 percent U.S. Shareholder owns (directly or indirectly through foreign
entities) any of the Company’s shares on the last day of the Company’s taxable
year. “Subpart F income” of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes
foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other
types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income
(including underwriting and investment income) attributable to the insurance of
risks situated outside the CFC’s country of incorporation. 

          The
Company believes that because of the dispersion of its share ownership,
provisions in its organizational documents that limit voting power and other
factors, no U.S. Person or U.S. Partnership who acquires its shares directly or
indirectly through one or more foreign entities should be required to include
its “subpart F income” in income under the CFC rules of the Code. It is
possible, however, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these
provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge, in which case an
investor’s investment could be materially adversely affected, if they own ten
percent or more of the Company’s stock.

U.S. Persons who hold shares will be subject to adverse tax
consequences if the Company is considered to be a Passive Foreign Investment
Company (PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. 

          If
the Company is considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S.
Person who owns any shares of the Company will be subject to adverse tax
consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than
might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance
of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case an investor’s investment
could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if the Company were
considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such
individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis
of the shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax
laws. The Company believes that it is not, has not been, and currently does not
expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company
cannot provide absolute assurance, however, that it will not be deemed a PFIC
by the IRS. If the Company were considered a PFIC, it could have material
adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income
taxation. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the
PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements
interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. The Company cannot
predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is
subject to U.S. federal income taxation. 

32




There is U.S. income tax risk associated with reinsurance
between U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates.


          Congress
has periodically considered legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived
tax advantages of Bermuda insurance companies and U.S. insurance companies
having Bermuda affiliates, including perceived tax benefits resulting
principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance companies and
their Bermuda affiliates. In this regard, Section 845 of the Code was amended
in 2004 to permit the IRS to reallocate, recharacterize or adjust items of
income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement
between related parties to reflect the proper “source, character and amount”
for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered “source and
character”). If the IRS were to successfully challenge the Company’s
reinsurance arrangements under Section 845, its financial condition and results
of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

There are U.S. income tax risks associated with the related
person insurance income of the Company’s non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries.


          If
(i) the related person insurance income, which the Company refers to as “RPII,”
of any one of its non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20%
of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and (ii) U.S.
persons were treated as owning 25% or more of the subsidiary’s stock (by vote
or value), a U.S. person who owns any ordinary shares, directly or indirectly,
on the last day of such taxable year on which the 25% threshold is met would be
required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that
person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year,
determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S.
holders at that date, regardless of whether that income is distributed. The
amount of RPII earned by a subsidiary (generally, premium and related
investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any
direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares of that subsidiary or any person
related to that holder) would depend on a number of factors, including the
identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by that
subsidiary. Although the Company does not believe that the 20% threshold will
be met in respect of any of its non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries, some of the
factors that may affect the result in any period may be beyond its control.
Consequently, the Company cannot provide absolute assurance that it will not
exceed the RPII threshold in any taxable year. 

          The
RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in
a non-U.S. insurance corporation that had RPII (even if the 20% threshold was
not met) and met the 25% threshold at any time during the five-year period
ending on the date of disposition, and the holder owned any stock at such time,
any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the
extent of the holder’s share (taking into account certain rules for determining
a U.S. holder’s share of RPII) of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and
profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the
shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to
RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with
specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. The
Company believes that these rules should not apply to dispositions of its
ordinary shares because the Company is not itself directly engaged in the
insurance business. The Company cannot provide absolute assurance, however,
that the IRS will not successfully assert that these rules apply to
dispositions of its ordinary shares. 

Changes in U.S. tax law might adversely affect an investment
in the Company’s shares. 

          The
tax treatment of non-U.S. companies and their U.S. and non-U.S. insurance
subsidiaries has been the subject of Congressional discussion and legislative
proposals. For example, one legislative proposal would impose additional limits
on the deductibility of interest by foreign-owned U.S. corporations. Another
legislative proposal would treat a non-U.S. corporation as a U.S. corporation
for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it were considered to be primarily managed
and controlled in the U.S. We cannot assure you that future legislative action
will not increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by us. If this happens, the
Company’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially
adversely affected. 

          Additionally,
the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding
whether a company is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent
establishment) within the United States or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. holders
would be required to include in their gross income “subpart F income” or the
RPII of a CFC, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There
are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to
insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed
form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules
may be forthcoming. The Company cannot be certain if, when or in what form such
regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will
have a retroactive effect. 

Risks Related to the Company’s Ordinary Shares

The price and trading volume of the Company’s ordinary
shares may be subject to significant fluctuations.

          The
price and trading volume of the Company’s ordinary shares may fluctuate in
response to a number of events and factors, including:




 


 


 




 


•


catastrophes or other events that may impact or be
 perceived by investors as impacting the insurance and reinsurance industries;




33







 


 


 




 


•


exposure to capital markets risks related to changes
 in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates;




 


 


 




 


•


quarterly variations in the Company’s operating
 results and the results of its affiliates;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in the market’s expectations about the
 Company’s future operating results;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in financial estimates and recommendations
 by securities analysts concerning the Company or the insurance and
 reinsurance industries generally;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in the credit ratings assigned to the
 Company’s claims-paying ability by S&P, A.M. Best or other independent
 rating agencies;




 


 


 




 


•


operating and stock price performance of other
 companies that investors may deem comparable to us;




 


 


 




 


•


news reports relating to the Company’s business and
 trends in the markets in which the Company operates;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in the laws and regulations affecting the
 Company’s business;




 


 


 




 


•


acquisitions and financings by the Company or others
 in the Company’s industry; and,




 


 


 




 


•


sales or acquisitions of a substantial number of the
 Company’s ordinary shares by its directors and executive officers or
 significant shareholders, or the perception that such sales could occur.




          In
addition, in recent years stock markets around the world have experienced
extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant
effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons
unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may
materially adversely affect the price of the Company’s ordinary shares,
regardless of its operating results.

Provisions in the Company’s Articles of Association may
reduce the voting rights of its ordinary shares. 

          The
Companies Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one
vote for each ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a
non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting
rights exercisable by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or
groups are not deemed to hold 10% or more of the voting power conferred by its
ordinary shares. Under these limitations, some shareholders may have less than
one vote for each ordinary share held by them. Moreover, these limitations
could have the effect of reducing the voting power of some shareholders who
would not otherwise be subject to such limitations by virtue of their direct
share ownership.

Provisions in the Company’s Articles of Association may
restrict the ownership and transfer of its ordinary shares.

          The
Company’s Articles of Association provide that its Board of Directors shall
decline to register a transfer of shares if it appears to its Board of
Directors, whether before or after such transfer, that the effect of such
transfer would be to increase the number of shares owned or controlled by any
person to 10% or more of any class of voting shares, the total issued shares of
XL Capital Ltd or the voting power of XL Capital Ltd. In addition, the Company’s
Articles of Association also provide that if, and for so long as, the votes
conferred on any person by the ownership or control of the Company’s shares
(including any preference ordinary shares) constitute 10% or more of the votes
conferred by its issued shares, each such share held by such person shall
confer only a fraction of the vote that would otherwise be conferred, as
determined by the formula described in its Articles of Association, and such
voting rights will continue to be readjusted until no shareholder’s voting
rights exceed this limitation as a result of such reduction. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the Company’s Board of Directors may make such final adjustments
to the aggregate number of votes conferred on any person by the ownership or
control of shares that they consider fair and reasonable, in the light of all
applicable circumstances, to ensure that such votes represent less than 10% of
the aggregate voting power of the votes conferred by all its issued shares. For
these purposes, references to ownership or control of the Company’s shares
means ownership within the meaning of Section 958 of the Code and Section
13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Certain provisions in the Company’s charter documents and
Rights Agreement could, among other things, impede an attempt to replace its
directors or to effect a change of control, which could diminish the value of
its ordinary shares. 

          The Company’s
articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult for
shareholders to replace directors and could delay or prevent a change of
control that a shareholder might consider favorable. These provisions include a
staggered board of directors, limitations on the ability of shareholders to
remove directors, limitations on voting rights and certain transfer
restrictions on its ordinary shares. In addition, certain provisions in the
Company’s Rights Agreement could delay or prevent a change of control that a
shareholder might consider favorable. These provisions may prevent a
shareholder from receiving the benefit of any premium over the market price of
the Company’s ordinary shares offered by a bidder in connection with a
potential takeover. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt or an attempt to
effect a change in management, these provisions may adversely affect the
prevailing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares if they are viewed as
discouraging takeover attempts in the future. See “Market for

34





Registrant’s
Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities.” In addition, insurance regulations in certain jurisdictions may
also delay or prevent a change of control or limit the ability of a shareholder
to acquire in excess of specified amounts of the Company’s ordinary shares. 

It may be difficult
to enforce judgments against XL Capital Ltd or its directors and executive
officers. 

          XL
Capital Ltd is incorporated pursuant to the laws of the Cayman Islands and its
principal executive offices are in Bermuda. In addition, certain of the
Company’s directors and officers reside outside the United States and a
substantial portion of its assets and the assets of such directors and officers
are located outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or
impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those
persons or to recover on judgments of U.S. courts against the Company or its
directors and officers, including judgments predicated upon civil liability
provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. The Company has been advised by
Cayman counsel that there is doubt as to whether the courts of the Cayman
Islands would enforce:




 


 


 




 


•


judgments of
 U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal
 securities laws obtained in actions against XL Capital Ltd or its directors
 and officers who reside outside the United States; or




 


 


 




 


•


original
 actions brought in the Cayman Islands against these persons or XL Capital Ltd
 predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. 




          We
have also been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United
States and the Cayman Islands providing for such enforcement and there are
grounds upon which Cayman Islands courts may not enforce judgments of United
States courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions,
including some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not
be allowed in Cayman Islands courts as contrary to public policy. 

U.S. persons who own
the Company’s ordinary shares may have more difficulty protecting their
interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.


          The
law applicable to companies established in the Cayman Islands, under which the
Company is governed, differs in certain material respects from laws generally
applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences
include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they
have an interest and their ability to vote notwithstanding a conflict of
interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative
lawsuits and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers. 







 


 




ITEM 1B