, "Risk Factors," for a discussion of such risks). At times these risks may exhibit greater levels of correlation than might be expected over the longer term due to the presence of, to a greater or lesser degree, some common internal or external risk drivers embedded in our businesses that may manifest themselves simultaneously. An enterprise view of risk is required to identify and manage the consequences of these common risks and risk drivers on our profitability, capital strength and liquidity.Our enterprise risk management ("ERM") initiatives are led by the Chief Enterprise Risk Officer ("CERO"), who is a member of executive management, and who reports to our Chief Financial Officer. The CERO also acts as a liaison between our Enterprise Risk Committee ("ERC," as discussed below) and the Board (or its committees), with respect to risk matters. All of our employees are expected to assist in the appropriate and timely identification and management of risks and to enhance the quality and effectiveness of ERM.Our ERM framework is designed to allow us to identify and understand material risk concentrations, including concentrations that have unattractive risk/reward dynamics so that prompt, appropriate, corrective or mitigating actions can be taken. To do this, we have risk management committees and processes to serve as points of managerial dialogue and convergence across our businesses and functional areas, to create risk aggregation methodologies, to develop specific risk appetites and to coordinate the identification, vetting and discussion of risk topics and metrics. As part of our ERM activities, 16we apply a suite of stress tests, tools, risk indicators, metrics and reporting processes that examine the consequences of low probability/high severity events (including those related to emerging risks) in order to take mitigating actions where required.Risk GovernanceRisk governance relates to the processes by which oversight and decision-making authorities with respect to risks are granted to individuals within the enterprise. Our governance framework establishes accountabilities for tasks and outcomes as well as escalation criteria. Governance processes are designed to ensure that transactions and activities, individually and in the aggregate, are carried out in accordance with our risk policies, philosophies, appetites, limits and risk concentrations, and in a manner consistent with expectations of excellence, integrity, accountability and client service.With respect to the responsibilities relating to ERM, the RFC:•Oversees ERM activities, including the risk management framework employed by management. With respect to the overall risk management framework, the RFC (i) reviews the methodology for establishing our overall risk capacity; (ii) reviews the policies for the establishment of risk limit frameworks, and adherence to such limits; and (iii) reviews and approves enterprise risk limits.•Oversees our compliance with any significant enterprise risk limits, authorities and policies. The RFC evaluates what actions to take with respect to such enterprise limits, authorities and policies, and approves any exceptions thereto from time to time as necessary.•Reviews our overall risk profile and monitors key risks across our organization as a whole, which may involve coordination with other committees of the Board from time to time as appropriate.•Reviews our process controls over model use and development with respect to model risk and model effectiveness, accuracy, and propriety.•Monitors our risk management performance and obtains reasonable assurance from management that our risk management policies are effective and are being adhered to.The review of our overall risk appetites and the evaluation of the risk impact of any material strategic decision being contemplated, including consideration of whether such strategic decision is within the risk profile established by us, is conducted by the full Board. "Risk appetites," as referred to above, are broad statements used to guide our risk and reward preferences over time, all consistent with, among other factors, business prudence, market opportunities, the underwriting pricing cycle and investment climate. Risk appetites are regularly monitored and can change over time in light of the above. See "Risk Appetite Management" below.Management oversight of ERM is performed, in part, via a centralized management ERC, which is chaired by the CERO. The ERC is comprised of senior management from our businesses and functions and is charged with developing and monitoring enterprise risk policies, risk appetites, risk limits (and compliance with such limits) and risk aggregations, and identifying key emerging risks and ways to mitigate such risks.In addition to the ERC, we have established a framework of separate yet complementary ERM subcommittees, each focusing on particular aspects of ERM. These subcommittees include:•Asset Risk Committee: This subcommittee assists the ERC in its responsibilities in relation to governance and oversight of asset-related risks across the Company, including the investment portfolio. Among its activities are (a) involvement in policy decisions on modeling and quantification of risk measurements; and (b) providing an interpretation and assessment of asset-related risks, with a particular focus on market-related risks. Further, the subcommittee is responsible for coordinating on a regular basis with the Credit Risk Committee on asset-related credit risks.•Country Risk Committee: This subcommittee supports and assists the ERC's identification, measurement, management, monitoring and reporting of country risk to our underwriting activities and functional areas.•Credit Risk Committee: This subcommittee develops and implements the metrics and supporting framework for allocation of credit risk capacity across major business units and functions, including the amount and types of credit exposure.•Economic Capital Model Committee: This subcommittee oversees the development of economic capital models that support ERM activities, and helps set priorities and manage resources related to such models. It reviews assumptions and related methodologies used within our economic capital models, including assessments of model validation, model control and model risk.17•Liability Risk Committee: This subcommittee supports and assists the ERC’s identification, measurement, management, monitoring and reporting of key underwriting liability and emerging risks.•Model Validation Committee: This subcommittee supports ERC's independent validation of the capital model.•Operational Risk Committee: This subcommittee supports the ERC’s identification, measurement, management and oversight of key operational risks through its oversight of key operational risk management processes and through its review of related operational risk indicators, trends and metrics.In addition to the above, risk management subcommittees within certain of our segments and businesses function to assist in ensuring that risk is managed in accordance with the risk limits, guidelines and tolerances that we have allocated to them.Risk Appetite ManagementOur risk appetite framework guides our strategies relating to, among other things, capital preservation, earnings volatility, capital at risk, operational loss, liquidity standards, claims paying rating and capital structure. This framework also addresses our tolerance to risks from material individual events (e.g., natural or man-made catastrophes such as terrorism), our investment portfolio and realistic disaster scenarios that cross multiple lines of business (and risks related to some or all of the above that may occur concurrently).In relation to event risk management, we establish net underwriting limits for individual large events as follows:1.We impose limits for each natural catastrophe peril region at a 1% tail value at risk ("TVaR") probability. This statistic indicates the average amount of net loss expected to be incurred if a loss above the 1% exceedance probability level has occurred.2.For each event type other than natural catastrophes, we impose limits at a 1% exceedance probability. If we were to deploy the full limit, for any given event type, there would be a 1% probability that an event would occur during the next year that would result in a net underwriting loss in excess of the limit.3.We also impose limits for certain other event types at a 0.4% exceedance probability as described in further detail below. If we were to deploy the full limit, for any such given event type, there would be a 0.4% probability that an event would occur during the next year that would result in a net underwriting loss in excess of the limit.For planning purposes and to calibrate 2016 risk tolerances, we set our underwriting limits as a percentage of June 30, 2015 adjusted tangible capital ("Adjusted Tangible Capital"). Adjusted Tangible Capital is defined as Total Shareholders’ Equity plus (i) outstanding subordinated notes due 2025 and 2045, less (ii) Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, less (iii) Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") (excluding certain net balances associated with Life Funds Withheld Assets). These limits may be recalibrated, from time to time, to reflect material changes in Total Shareholders’ Equity that may occur, at the discretion of management and as overseen by the Board.Tiered risk tolerances are set for natural catastrophes, terrorism, other realistic disaster scenarios, credit risk, country risk, longevity risk and mortality risk. In setting our risk tolerances we consider such factors as:•Anticipated risk adjusted returns;•Strategic risk preferences;•Relativity to peers;•Shareholder expectations;•Robustness of exposure assessment methodology; and•Projected enterprise loss potential.Per event 1% TVaR underwriting limits for North Atlantic Windstorm are set at a level not to exceed approximately 25% of Adjusted Tangible Capital. Per event 1% TVaR underwriting limits for North American Earthquake are set at a level not to exceed approximately 20% of Adjusted Tangible Capital. Per event 1% TVaR underwriting limits for all other natural catastrophe peril regions are set below the per event 1% TVaR limits described above.The largest per event 1% exceedance probability underwriting limit for terrorism and other realistic disaster scenarios is set at a level not to exceed approximately 13.5% of Adjusted Tangible Capital; limits at the per event 1% exceedance probability for the remaining terrorism and realistic disaster scenarios are set below this level.  18The largest per event 1% exceedance probability underwriting limit for country risk is set at a level not to exceed approximately 7% of Adjusted Tangible Capital. The largest per event 1% exceedance probability underwriting limit for mortality risk is set at a level not to exceed approximately 6.1% of Adjusted Tangible Capital. The largest per event 1% exceedance probability underwriting limit for longevity risk is set at a level not to exceed approximately 1.5% of Adjusted Tangible Capital.The largest per event 0.4% exceedance probability underwriting limit for certain terrorism events is set at a level not to exceed approximately 18% of Adjusted Tangible Capital; limits at the per event 0.4% exceedance probability for the remaining terrorism event scenarios are set below this level.The largest per event 0.4% exceedance probability underwriting limit for mortality risk is set at a level not to exceed approximately 8.1% of Adjusted Tangible Capital.The largest per event 0.4% exceedance probability underwriting limit for longevity risk is set at a level not to exceed approximately 2.0% of Adjusted Tangible Capital.In all instances, the above referenced underwriting limits reflect pre-tax losses net of reinsurance and include inwards and outwards reinstatement premiums related to the specific events being measured. The limits do not contemplate underwriting profits expected to be generated in the absence of catastrophic loss activity.In setting underwriting limits, we also consider such factors as:•Correlation of underwriting risk with other risks (e.g., asset/investment risk, operational risk, etc.);•Model risk and robustness of data;•Geographical concentrations;•Exposures at lower return periods;•Expected payback period associated with losses;•Projected share of industry loss; and•Annual aggregate losses for natural catastrophes at various return periods, including a 1% exceedance probability and a 1% TVaR level on both a peril region basis and a portfolio basis.Also see Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Credit Risk (Excluding Life Funds Withheld Assets)," for a discussion of our credit risk framework which establishes a credit clash limit to manage the direct and indirect credit exposures arising from underwriting and non-underwriting activities that could potentially be impacted in various degrees by a systemic credit event.Loss exposure estimates for all event risks are derived from a combination of commercially available and internally developed models together with the judgment of management, as overseen by the Board. Actual incurred losses may vary materially from our estimates. Factors that can cause a deviation between estimated and actual incurred losses may include:•Inaccurate assumptions of event frequency and severity;•Inaccurate or incomplete data;•Changing climate conditions that may add to the unpredictability of frequency and severity of natural catastrophes in certain parts of the world and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures;•Future possible increases in property values and the effects of inflation that may increase the severity of catastrophic events to levels above the modeled levels;•Natural catastrophe models that incorporate and are critically dependent on meteorological, seismological and other earth science assumptions and related statistical relationships that may not be representative of prevailing conditions and risks, and may therefore misstate how particular events actually materialize, causing a material deviation between forecasted and actual damages associated with such events; and•A change in the judicial climate.For the above and other reasons, the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes and other event types are inherently unpredictable and it is difficult to estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. As a consequence, there is 19material uncertainty around our ability to measure exposures associated with individual events and combinations of events. This uncertainty can cause actual exposures and losses to deviate from those amounts estimated, which in turn can create a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and may result in substantial liquidation of investments, possibly at a loss, and outflows of cash as losses are paid. For this reason, we carry capital in addition to that required by the specific limits described even if it is in excess of rating agency and regulatory required capital. For a further discussion on risk appetite management see Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Other Key Focuses of Management."Impact of ERM ProcessesWe believe that our ERM processes improve the quality and timeliness of strategic decisions, enhance the integration of strategic initiatives with the risks related to such initiatives and act as catalysts to improve risk awareness and informed action by us. We believe that the integration of ERM with existing business processes and controls optimizes the risk/reward characteristics of business strategies, enhances our overall risk management culture, and is central to our capital allocation process.In addition, our ERM processes complement our overall internal control framework by helping to manage an organization of our size and the variety of our businesses, investment activities and geographical reach. However, internal controls and ERM can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that control objectives will be met. As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite of our ERM activities. An investor should carefully consider the risks and all information set forth in this report including the discussion included in , "Risk Factors – The regulatory regimes under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business." In addition, XL-Ireland, our ultimate holding company, is domiciled in Ireland. Following the implementation of Solvency II on January 1, 2016, Solvency II applies at different levels of operations with different requirements. The group is regulated by Solvency II at the level of the group and our E.U. subsidiaries are regulated by Solvency II at the subsidiary level. The Central Bank of Ireland ("CBI") is our group supervisor working in conjunction with our college of regulatory supervisors (the "Group's College of Supervisors"). The objective of Solvency II is to modernize the existing regulatory framework by introducing a harmonized prudential framework for E.U.-based insurance firms based on the risk-profile of each individual insurance company with a focus on a risk based solvency capital ratio to protect the policyholders of E.U. insurers from any potential risk associated with the wider group.Solvency II specifies financial capital requirements, disclosure and reporting requirements, and governance and risk management requirements, broadly structured into three "pillars," which group the requirements into three main areas that cover different aspects of the regime.•Pillar 1 of Solvency II sets out a number of capital requirements, such as an own funds requirement (including prescribing the type and nature of capital which is eligible to meet these capital requirements). It also specifies the obligation to have a Minimum Capital Requirement, which is the minimum amount of capital needed to be held by a firm and a Solvency Capital Requirement, which is the risk-based level of capital required to be held by a firm. Pillar 1 further sets out the various requirements of how a firm's capital is to be assessed, including the application of the standard and internal models and the manner in which assets and liabilities are to be valued.•Pillar 2 requires firms to develop and embed systems to identify, measure and proactively manage risks. In particular, it sets out the own risk and solvency assessment, which broadly requires a firm to assess, in a proportionate manner, 20all of the current and possible future risks it has within its business to determine the level of capital needed to mitigate these risks.•Pillar 3 sets out a number of requirements in relation to public disclosure and regulatory reporting. Firms are required to publish an annual report that sets out their solvency and financial condition, and must include information on the firm's capital management, its systems of governance and a description of each category of risk to which the firm is exposed.We are also monitoring other regulatory developments such as the International Association of Insurance Supervisors ("IAIS") proposed risk-based global insurance capital standard and group-wide supervisory and regulatory framework for internationally active insurance groups ("IAIGs").  See , "Risk Factors - The regulatory regimes under which we operate, and potential change thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business," for risks to our business, including in the event that either Bermuda's or Switzerland's supervisory regime is not considered equivalent to the Solvency II regime.The U.S. has been determined to be provisionally equivalent for the group solvency calculation criteria only, which will allow some companies, not including us currently, to benefit from U.S. local solvency calculations in their group calculations for a ten year period. This designation is for group solvency calculations only and excludes reinsurance and group supervision.24Executive Officers of the RegistrantThe table below sets forth the names, ages and titles of the persons who were the executive officers of the Company at February 23, 2016:Name Age PositionMichael S. McGavick 58 Chief Executive Officer and DirectorPaul Brand 53 Executive Vice President, Chair of the Insurance Leadership Team and Chief Underwriting Officer, InsuranceStephen J. O. Catlin 61 Executive Deputy ChairmanSusan L. Cross 55 Executive Vice President and Global Chief ActuaryKirstin Gould 49 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and SecretaryGregory S. Hendrick 50 Executive Vice President and Chief Executive of Reinsurance OperationsW. Myron Hendry 67 Executive Vice President and Chief Platform OfficerPaul Jardine 54 Executive Vice President and Chief Experience OfficerKelly Lyles 52 Executive Vice President, Deputy Chair of the Insurance Leadership Team and Chief Regional Officer, InsuranceBenjamin Meuli 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Investment OfficerPeter R. Porrino 59 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial OfficerJacob D. Rosengarten 60 Executive Vice President and Chief Enterprise Risk OfficerEileen Whelley 61 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources OfficerMichael S. McGavick, was appointed as a Director of the Company in April 2008, shortly prior to his commencement as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer on May 1, 2008. Previously, Mr. McGavick was President & CEO of the Seattle-based Safeco Corporation from January 2001 to December 2005. Prior to joining Safeco, Mr. McGavick spent six years with the Chicago-based CNA Financial Corporation, where he held various senior executive positions before becoming President and Chief Operating Officer of the company’s largest commercial insurance operating unit. Mr. McGavick’s insurance industry experience also includes two years as Director of the American Insurance Association’s Superfund Improvement Project in Washington D.C., where he became the Association’s lead strategist in working to transform U.S. Superfund environmental laws.Paul Brand was appointed Chair of the Insurance Leadership Team and Chief Underwriting Officer, Insurance in May 2015. Previously, from 2003 until May 2015, Mr. Brand served as Catlin’s Chief Underwriting Officer and as active underwriter of Syndicate 2003. Mr. Brand began his career in the insurance industry in 1982 at Insurance Company of North America in London. In 1987 Mr. Brand joined Catlin as an underwriter, became deputy underwriter of Syndicate 1003 in 1990 and deputy underwriter of Syndicate 2003 upon its formation in 1996. Stephen J. O. Catlin was appointed as a Director of the Company and as its Deputy Executive Chairman in May 2015.  Prior to the Catlin Acquisition, from 2006 to May 2015, Mr. Catlin served as Catlin's Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chairman. Mr. Catlin founded Catlin Underwriting Agencies Limited in 1984 and was the active underwriter of Syndicate 1003 and later Syndicate 2003 until May 2003. From 1996 to 2002, Mr. Catlin was the Lloyd’s nominated Director of Equitas Holdings Limited. He served as Chairman of the Lloyd’s Market Association, the trade association representing the interests of Lloyd’s underwriters and underwriting agents, from 2000 until 2003. Mr. Catlin was a member of the Council of Lloyd’s from 2002 until 2004 and a member of the Lloyd’s Franchise Board from 2003 until 2006. Mr. Catlin was President of the Insurance Institute of London in 2010-2011 and is a Visiting Fellow at the Oxford University Centre for Corporate Reputation. Susan L. Cross has served as Executive Vice President and Global Chief Actuary since August 2008. Ms. Cross has served as Global Chief Actuary since 2006 and previously was Chief Actuary of the Company’s reinsurance operations from 2004 to 2006 and Chief Actuary of XL Re Bermuda from 2002 to 2004. She also held various actuarial positions in the insurance and reinsurance operations of the Company from 1999 to 2002. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Cross was Principal and Consulting Actuary at Tillinghast Towers Perrin.Kirstin Gould was appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel in September 2007, which position includes her prior responsibilities as General Counsel, Corporate Affairs and Corporate Secretary. From 2008 to May 2015, Ms. Gould also led the Communications and Marketing department. Ms. Gould was previously Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Affairs from July 2006 to September 2007 and also served as Chief Corporate Legal Officer from November 2004 to July 2006, and Associate General Counsel from July 2001 to November 2004. Prior to joining the Company in 2000, Ms. Gould was associated with the law firms of Clifford Chance and Dewey Ballantine in London and New York.Gregory S. Hendrick was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Executive of Reinsurance Operations on May 1, 2015.  From January 2012 to May 2015, Mr. Hendrick served as Executive Vice President and Chief Executive of Insurance Operations. From October 2010 to January 2012, Mr. Hendrick served as Executive Vice President, Strategic Growth. From 2004 to October 2010, Mr. Hendrick served as President and Chief Underwriting Officer of XL Re Ltd. Previously, he served 25as head of U.S. Property Treaty underwriting at XL Re Ltd and Vice President responsible for U.S. Property Underwriting for XL Mid Ocean Reinsurance Ltd. Prior to joining XL, Mr. Hendrick was Assistant Vice President of Treaty Underwriting for the Winterthur Reinsurance Corporation of America.Paul Jardine was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Experience Officer in May 2015.  Previously, from 2004 until May 2015, Mr. Jardine was Catlin’s Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Jardine joined Catlin in 2001 with responsibility for the development of new financial products, and was appointed as chief executive of the Catlin Syndicate in 2003.  Prior to joining Catlin, Mr. Jardine was chief actuary and commutations director of Equitas Holdings Limited. Prior to that, he was a partner at Coopers & Lybrand, where he was involved almost exclusively with issues dealing with Lloyd’s and the London insurance market.  Kelly Lyles was appointed Chief Regional Officer, Insurance, and Deputy Chair of the Insurance Leadership Team in May 2015.  From September 2014 until May 2015, Ms. Lyles served as the Company's Chief Executive of Insurance Global Professional operations. Prior to joining XL in 2014, Ms. Lyles served in progressively senior leadership roles during her more than 15 years with AIG Inc, including as Head of Specialty Lines for Europe, Middle East and Africa from January to September 2014, and as AIG's Country Manager in France from 2010 to January 2014. Benjamin Meuli was appointed Chief Investment Officer in May 2015.  Previously, from 2009 to May 2015, Mr. Meuli served as Catlin's Chief Financial Officer and as a member of its board of directors.  From 2004 to 2008, Mr. Meuli served as Chief Investment Officer and as a member of the Executive Board of Swiss Re. From 1998 to 2004 he served as a Managing Director of Morgan Stanley with primary responsibility for asset and liability management issues linked to large multinational insurance groups, including all areas of investment banking, fixed income, equities and real estate. Prior to joining Morgan Stanley, he had a 20-year career with JP Morgan, where he served as a Managing Director, in charge of European Debt Capital Markets and the European Financial Institutions Group. He also served as Chief Executive of JP Morgan Life Assurance Ltd. W. Myron Hendry joined the Company’s leadership team upon his appointment as Executive Vice President, Chief Platform Officer in December 2009. Prior to joining the Company, from 2006 to December 2009, Mr. Hendry served as Business Operations Executive of Bank of America’s Insurance Group, joining there from a merger with Countrywide Insurance Services Group. Prior to the merger, Mr. Hendry served as Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer for Countrywide and prior to this, from 2004 to 2006, Mr. Hendry served as Senior Vice President, Property and Casualty Services at Safeco. From 1971 to 2004, Mr. Hendry held various leadership roles with CNA Insurance, with his last assignment being the Senior Vice President of Worldwide Operations.Peter R. Porrino was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in August 2011. Previously, Mr. Porrino served as Ernst & Young’s Global Director of Insurance Industry Services from 1999 to August 2011. Mr. Porrino first joined Ernst & Young in 1978 and served in the firm’s New York and National insurance practices for 15 years before leaving to serve in senior management positions with several insurance companies. This experience includes Zurich Financial Services, where Mr. Porrino served as CFO of Zurich’s NYSE-listed subsidiary, Zurich Reinsurance Centre, Inc. He rejoined Ernst & Young in 1999.Jacob D. Rosengarten has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Enterprise Risk Officer since September 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Rosengarten served as Managing Director of Risk Management and Analytics for Goldman Sachs Asset Management from 1998 to 2008. From 1993 to 1997, Mr. Rosengarten served as Director of Risk and Quantitative Analysis at Commodities Corporation and prior to this, from 1983 to 1992 held progressively senior finance positions at Commodities Corporation.Eileen Whelley was appointed to the Company’s leadership team in June 2012, serving as Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer, where she is responsible for global talent acquisition, leadership and professional development, succession planning, compensation and benefit program design and administration, employee relations, organizational effectiveness, performance management, HR information systems and payroll. Prior to joining the Company, from 2006 to 2012, Ms. Whelley served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources, for The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. Prior to that, Ms. Whelley spent 17 years at General Electric, where she held a number of human resources leadership roles, including Executive Vice President of Human Resources for NBC Universal and Vice President of Human Resources Excellence for GE Capital. She also served in various HR roles at Citicorp and Standard Oil of Ohio.Non-Employee Directors of the RegistrantEugene M. McQuade has been a director since July 2004 and the non-executive Chairman of the Board since May 2015. Previously, Mr. McQuade served as Vice Chairman of Citigroup Inc., where he led Citigroup's comprehensive capital analysis and review process, and prior to that as the CEO of Citibank, N.A., the commercial banking arm of Citigroup, and as a member of Citigroup’s Operating Committee. 26Ramani Ayer has been a director since February 2011. Previously, Mr. Ayer served as the Chairman of the board and Chief Executive Officer of The Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., a leading provider of insurance and wealth management services.Dale Comey has been a director since November 2001. Previously, Mr. Comey was Executive Vice President of ITT Corporation, where he was responsible for directing the operations of several business units, including ITT Hartford and ITT Financial Corporation.Claus-Michael Dill has been a director since August 2015.  Previously, Mr. Dill was the Chief Executive officer of insurer AXA Konzern AG in Cologne, Germany and a member of the AXA Group Executive Committee.  Robert R. Glauber has been a director since September 2006, having originally served on our Board from 1998 to May 2005. From April 2009 to May 2015, Mr. Glauber served as the non-executive Chairman of the Board. Mr. Glauber is presently a Lecturer at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government.Edward J. "Ned" Kelly, III has been a director since August 2014. Previously Mr. Kelly was Chairman of the board of Citigroup Inc. Institutional Clients Group, Citi's Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Secretary of JP Morgan & Co. Incorporated and Managing Director of the Carlyle Group.Suzanne B. Labarge has been a director since October 2011. Previously, Ms. Labarge served as the Vice Chairman and Chief Risk Officer of Royal Bank of Canada (RBC Financial Group), a diversified financial services company.Joseph Mauriello has been a director since January 2006. Previously, Mr. Mauriello was the Deputy Chairman, Chief Operating Officer and a director of KPMG LLP (United States) and KPMG Americas Region, a leading provider of audit, tax and advisory services.Clayton S. Rose has been a director since December 2009. Dr. Rose is presently the President of Bowdoin College.Anne Stevens has been a director since April 2014. Previously, Ms. Stevens was Chief Operations Officer for the Americas at the Ford Motor Company, and more recently was Chairman of the board, Chief Executive Officer and Principal of SA IT Services.Sir John M. Vereker has been a director since November 2007. Previously, Sir John Vereker was the Governor and Commander-in-Chief of Bermuda.EmployeesAt December 31, 2015, we had 7,200 employees. At that date, 396 of our employees were represented by workers’ councils and 517 of our employees were subject to industry-wide collective bargaining agreements in several countries outside the United States.Available InformationThe public can read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov.Our website address is http://www.xlcatlin.com. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other of our documents filed with or furnished to the SEC.We make available free of charge, including through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Upon written or oral request, we will promptly deliver, without charge, to any shareholder a copy of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. Requests for copies should be submitted to the Company Secretary at XL Group, 100 Washington Blvd., 6th Floor, Stamford, CT 06902, United States of America or (203) 964-5500.27We have adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, written charters for each of the Audit Committee, the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Nominating, Governance and External Affairs Committee and the RFC, as well as a Code of Conduct and a related Compliance Program. Each of these documents is posted on our website at http://www.xlgroup.com, and each is available in print to any shareholder who requests it by writing to us at Investor Relations Department, XL Group plc, 100 Washington Blvd., 6th Floor, Stamford, CT 06902, United States of America.We intend to post on our website any amendment to, or waiver of, a provision of our Code of Conduct that applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller or persons performing similar functions and that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K under the federal securities laws.We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on the website in the "Investor Relations" section. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts.28ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAny of the following risk factors could have a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity, in addition to the other information contained in this report. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations.The integration of Catlin Group Limited may be more difficult or time consuming than expected, and the acquisition may not result in any or all of the benefits anticipated. Our future prospects will, in part, be dependent upon our ability to fully integrate Catlin successfully. Furthermore, we may face additional challenges and difficulties, including those related to, without limitation, managing a larger combined company; redeploying resources in different areas of operations to improve efficiency; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology and other systems; and addressing possible differences between the Company’s culture, processes, controls, procedures and systems and those of Catlin. Additionally, the Acquisition might affect the relationship that the Company and/or Catlin has with customers, brokers and other business partners, and affect our performance and/or potential growth opportunities. Failure to effectively integrate the businesses on a timely basis could adversely impact the expected benefits of the acquisition.Our future performance will, among other things, also depend on the successful integration and motivation of key employees from both the Company and Catlin. It is possible that failure to retain certain individuals during the integration period will affect our ability to fully integrate Catlin into the Company successfully and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Costs related to the Catlin Acquisition and synergies that could result from the Acquisition may differ from those anticipated.Although we are on track to achieve expected synergies from the Catlin Acquisition, our actual cost-savings, the costs required to realize the cost-savings and the source of the cost-savings could differ materially from our estimates, and we may not achieve the full amount of cost-savings on the schedule anticipated, or at all, and it is possible these cost-savings initiatives may have other unanticipated adverse effects on our business.Finally, we may not be able to achieve the targeted long-term strategic or operational benefits of the Catlin Acquisition. An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Catlin Acquisition could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or the price of our shares.The occurrence of disasters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cashflows and prospects.We have substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural and man-made disasters and other catastrophic events.  Both our underwriting limits for (re)insurance policies covering such losses and our exposure to such losses are expected to significantly increase following the Acquisition. Catastrophes can be caused by various natural or man-made events, including hurricanes, wind, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods, hailstorms, tornadoes, drought, severe winter weather, volcanoes, solar storms, nuclear, chemical, biological, radiological or other environmental events, accidents and disasters, power outages, explosions, severe weather, tsunamis, fires, war, cyber attacks and events and acts of terrorism. Changing climate conditions may add to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world and could create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate.The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in substantial volatility in our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the fiscal quarter or year in which a catastrophic event occurs, as well as subsequent fiscal periods, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to write new business. This risk is exacerbated due to accounting principles and rules that do not permit (re)insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur. We expect that future possible increases in the values and concentrations of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to catastrophic events, a single catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones and lines of business and the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates, in each case potentially having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, while we may, depending on market conditions, purchase catastrophe reinsurance and retrocessional protection, the occurrence of one or more major catastrophes in any given period could result in losses that exceed such reinsurance and retrocessional protection. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and may result in substantial liquidation of investments, possibly at a loss, and outflows of cash as losses are paid.29The failure of any of the underwriting risk management strategies that we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity.We seek to limit our loss exposure by, among other things, writing a number of our reinsurance or retrocession contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client and prudently underwriting each program written. In addition, in the case of proportional treaties, we generally seek to use per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. We cannot be sure that all of these loss limitation methods will have the precise risk management impact intended. For instance, although we also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification, geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Underwriting involves the exercise of considerable judgment and the making of important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. The failure of any of the underwriting risk management strategies that we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, may not be enforceable in the manner that we intend and disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may arise, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.The insurance and reinsurance industries are historically cyclical and we may experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates.The insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often followed by an increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Either of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and conditions and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance industries significantly.A downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength and credit ratings by one or more rating agencies could materially and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.As our ability to underwrite business is dependent upon the quality of our claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies, a downgrade by any of these institutions could cause our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry to suffer and make it more difficult for us to market our products.A downgrade below "A-" of our principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries by either S&P or A.M. Best Company ("A.M. Best"), which is three notches below the current S&P financial strength rating of "A+" (Positive) and two notches below the A.M. Best financial strength rating of "A" (Stable), may trigger termination provisions in a significant amount of our assumed reinsurance and retrocessional agreements and may potentially require us to return unearned premium to cedants or post additional collateral. In addition, a material reduction in our shareholders’ equity may trigger termination provisions or require us to post additional collateral in a majority of our assumed reinsurance agreements. While the amount of reduction necessary to trigger such termination provisions varies from agreement to agreement, such provisions are generally triggered by a reduction in the range of 20 to 50 percent. Whether a client would exercise its termination rights after such a downgrade or decline in shareholders' equity would likely depend on, among other things, the reasons for the downgrade or decline, the extent of the downgrade or decline, prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage, and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Based on premium value, we estimate that approximately 66% of our in force reinsurance contracts at January 1, 2016 contained provisions allowing clients to terminate those contracts upon a decline in our ratings to below "A-." In the event of such a downgrade, we cannot predict whether or how many of our clients would actually exercise such termination rights or the extent to which any such terminations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or future prospects or the market price for our securities. A downgrade could also result in both a substantial loss of business for us, as ceding companies and brokers that place such business may move to other insurers and reinsurers with higher ratings, and the loss of key employees. In addition, due to collateral posting requirements under our letter of credit and revolving credit facility agreements, such a downgrade may require the posting of cash collateral in support of certain "in use" portions of these facilities (see Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources," included herein). Specifically, a downgrade below "A-" by A.M. Best would constitute an event of default under the Company’s two largest credit facilities and may trigger such collateral requirements. In certain limited instances, such downgrades may require us to return cash or assets to counterparties or to settle derivative and/or other transactions with the respective counterparties.30In addition to the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, various rating agencies also publish credit ratings for XL-Cayman. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner, are part of our overall funding profile and affect our ability to access certain types of liquidity. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt or requiring us to post collateral.Sovereign debt crises concerns regarding the instability of countries experiencing such crises, as well as the downgrading of sovereign nations' credit ratings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Global markets and economic conditions are currently and have in the past been negatively impacted by the uncertainty relating to sovereign debt levels in certain markets, such as those of developing nations including, but not limited to, Brazil and China, and of various E.U. member states (including Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain (the "European Periphery Nations")), and the ability of those countries to service their sovereign debt obligations and the stability of financial institutions operating within those countries. This uncertainty has resulted and could in the future result in volatile bond yields on such sovereign debt, as well as on those of the debt of corporations located or operating within such countries, and on the valuation of equity markets, and could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions regionally or throughout the world. Such volatility could, in turn, have material adverse impacts on the performance of our investment portfolio, as well as some of our credit sensitive underwriting activities. In addition, should governments default on their obligations, there could be a negative impact on both our direct equity and fixed income holdings, as well as on non-government issues and financials held within the country of default. An extended period of stagnant growth combined with low or negative inflation, a continuation of significant deficits and an ongoing period of stimulative monetary policy could lead to a re-emergence of the sovereign debt crisis concerning European countries, including the European Periphery Nations, and related European financial restructuring efforts, may cause the value of the European currencies, including the Euro, to further deteriorate, which in turn could adversely impact Euro-denominated assets held in our investment portfolio or our European book of business. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results - Balance Sheet Analysis - European Sovereign Debt Crisis," for an analysis of our fixed maturity portfolio's exposure to European Periphery Nations.In addition, downgrades of sovereign debt - principally of E.U. member states, the United States, or other nations to which our investment portfolio is exposed - and concern about the potential default of government issuers, exits of member states from the E.U., or a possible breakup of the E.U. could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty and could negatively impact the average credit rating quality of our investment portfolio, which could require us to change our minimum average credit quality target, and may result in foreign exchange and investment losses.With respect to a potential exit of member states from the E.U., the U.K. is scheduled to hold a referendum on its membership in the E.U. Should the U.K. vote to withdraw from the E.U., it may impact the ease with which  our U.K. subsidiaries are able to operate in Europe and could deter foreign insurance companies from opening operations in London, potentially damaging the U.K. insurance market, which is a significant market for us. Our business could be disrupted if it is determined that we need to redomicile our U.K. subsidiaries to another member of the E.U. as a result of an exit by the U.K. from the E.U. In addition, a vote to withdraw the U.K. from the E.U. could lead to uncertainty and potentially divergent national law and regulation as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate, and could lead to market volatility and investment losses, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, business opportunities, results of operations and/or cash flows.With respect to the European sovereign debt crisis, the interdependencies among European economies and financial institutions and between such European economies and financial institutions and those of the rest of the world have also exacerbated concern regarding the stability of European financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. One or more Euro-zone countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the European Monetary Union or the E.U., or the Euro as the single currency of the Euro-zone could cease to exist if the European Monetary Union were dissolved. These or other actions could ultimately result in the European Union ceasing to exist. Any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could lead to severe economic recession or depression. If one or more significant countries abandon the E.U., the Euro or the European Monetary Union dissolves, or if separatist movements in countries such as the U.K. and Spain prove successful, causing certain regions of such countries to secede, it may result in foreign exchange and investment losses, uncertainty with respect to the terms, value or enforceability of certain bonds, instruments or contracts, which could result in a material loss to us. Similarly, if a country leaving the Euro-zone imposes currency controls, such controls may have a material adverse impact on the value of and our ability to withdraw funds from that country.Given the extent of our European operations, including that several of our subsidiaries are domiciled in Europe and that XL-Ireland has its registered office in Ireland, and our European investment holdings, clients and counterparties, persistent 31volatility in the European financial markets, or the failure of any significant European financial institution arising from the wider implications of a crisis, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, could have a material adverse impact on our business, investment portfolio, liquidity or financial performance. A future Euro-zone sovereign crisis (including a sovereign debt crisis) could lead to political uncertainty, material changes to tax policies of Euro-zone countries, financial turmoil and social unrest, which could affect the successful implementation of stability measures. Sovereigns, financial institutions and companies may become subject to liquidity shortages and be unable to obtain refinancings or new fundings, leading to an increased risk of a default on their existing debt, and measures to reduce debt levels and fiscal deficits could result in a further slowdown of or negative economic growth.For a discussion of the risks to our business during or following a financial market disruption and risks to our investment portfolio, see the risk factor entitled "We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates as well as other investment risks, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows."Our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks.Our business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. This includes the following efforts, from time to time, to maintain or profitably grow market share:▪We may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured or contain new coverage or coverage terms.▪We may refine our underwriting processes.▪We may seek to expand distribution channels.▪We may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the United States where we have had relatively little or no market share or operating history.▪We may engage in insurance-linked securities and other reinsurance capital markets transactions, either alone or with third party investors. We may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. Among other risks:▪Demand for new products or business generated in new markets may not meet our expectations.▪Pricing for new or enhanced products may be inadequate and may result in unprofitable business.▪To the extent we are able to market new products or expand into new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. This, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations.▪Efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict.▪In connection with the addition of new products to existing coverages or the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins.▪To develop new products or markets, we may encounter unanticipated operational issues or unanticipated coverage risks, or we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results.If our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results could be materially and adversely affected.We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates as well as other investment risks, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Our operating results are affected by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our assets are invested primarily by a number of external investment management service providers, and to a lesser extent by our in-house portfolio management team, under the direction of the Company’s management within the Investment Group in accordance, in general, with the Authorities Framework set by us under the oversight of the RFC. The Authorities Framework defines constraints and guidelines that restrict the asset classes that we may invest in by type, duration, geography and value. Although our investment policies stress diversification of risks and conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to market-wide risks, as 32noted below, and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. The failure of any of the investment risk strategies that we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are exposed to significant capital markets risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and defaults, market liquidity, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected by realized losses, impairments and changes in unrealized positions as a result of significant continued market volatility, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, a lack of pricing transparency, a reduction in market liquidity, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. Levels of write-down or impairment are impacted by our assessment of the intent to sell securities that have declined in value as well as actual losses as a result of defaults or deterioration in estimates of cash flows. We periodically review our investment portfolio structure and strategy. If, as a result of such review, we determine to reposition or realign portions of the investment portfolio and sell securities in an unrealized loss position, we will incur an other than temporary impairment charge or realized losses. Any such charge may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business.For the year ended December 31, 2015, we incurred net realized and unrealized investment gains and losses, as described in Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," included herein. We continue to closely monitor current market conditions and evaluate the long term impact of the market on all of our investment holdings. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and business.Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability of fixed income instruments that are associated with changes in interest rates. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which have been and may continue to be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from central bank monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, which would be offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested over time. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, which would be offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. We maintain an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is determined in accordance with our SAA. In summary, we are economically exposed to interest rate risk on our capital and to the extent that our investment portfolio maturities are a poor hedge of actual liability loss payments.Our exposure to credit spread risk relates primarily to the market price associated with changes in prevailing market credit spreads and the impact on our holdings of spread products such as corporate and structured and credit-sensitive government-related securities. Approximately 2.0% of our aggregate fixed income portfolio consists of below investment-grade high yield fixed income securities. These securities have a higher degree of credit or default risk and a greater exposure to credit spread risk. Certain sectors within the investment and below investment grade fixed income market, such as structured and corporate credit, may be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. Our procedures to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of our invested assets in general and those impacted by recent credit market issues specifically may not protect us during periods of economic weakness or periods of turmoil in capital markets from default losses in both our investment grade and below investment grade corporate and structured holdings. This may result in a material reduction of net income, capital and cash flows.We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in common stock or equity-related securities, including hedge funds and private investments (including funds). The value of these assets fluctuates, due to changes in the equity and credit markets along with other factors. In times of economic weakness, the market value and liquidity of these assets may decline, and may negatively impact net income, capital and cash flows. In addition, the amount of earnings from hedge funds and private investments (including funds) are not earned evenly across the year, or even from year to year. As a result, the amount of earnings that we record from these investments may vary substantially from quarter to quarter. The timing of distributions from such private investments (including funds) depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments. The ability of a hedge fund to satisfy any redemption request from its investors depends on the underlying liquidity of the hedge fund’s investments. As a result, earnings, distributions and redemptions from these two asset classes may be more difficult to predict, and, if such funds are unable to satisfy our redemption requests, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted. As hedge funds and certain private investment funds and other funds are collective investment vehicles managed by third parties, we do not control the proceeds once we make our investments, thus subjecting us to a higher level of fraud risk than is the case with our fixed income and equity holdings.A portion of our investment portfolio is comprised of securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision 33of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed corporate, contract and bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. These risks are likely to be more pronounced for investments in companies located in emerging markets. Although the majority of our investments are U.S. dollar denominated, a portion of our investments are denominated in other currencies. In addition, many of our non-U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in currencies different than their functional currency, which exposes us to changes in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of our principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries include the U.S. dollar, U.K. sterling, the Euro, the Swiss franc and the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations of one currency relative to one or more other currencies may materially impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, locally-required capital levels are invested in local currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process and we utilize derivative instruments such as futures, options and foreign currency forward contracts to, among other things, manage our foreign currency exposure. It is possible that these instruments will not effectively mitigate all or a substantial portion of our foreign exchange rate risk, which could adversely impact the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.The determination of the amount of other than temporary impairments taken on our investments is based on subjective valuation judgments and could materially impact our financial position and results of operations.Our management periodically reviews and assesses our portfolio to determine if other-than-temporary impairments ("OTTI") should be recognized on our investments. For discussion of our accounting policy regarding OTTI, see Item 8, Note 2(g), "Significant Accounting Policies - Other-Than-Temporary Impairments of Available for Sale."There are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other-than-temporary. These include, among others, subsequent changes in general economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, our liability profile, subjective assessment of issue-specific factors (seniority of claims, collateral value, etc.), future financial market effects, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant disclosure of accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments. During periods of market disruption, it may also be more difficult to value certain securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data less observable.  There may also be certain asset classes that become illiquid due to the financial environment.  In addition, significant assumptions and management judgment are involved in determining if the decline is other-than-temporary. If management determines that a decline in fair value is temporary, then a security’s value is not written down at that time. However, there are potential effects upon our future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of the investments are other-than-temporary declines.Our management may not have assessed the correct amount of impairments to be taken in our financial statements and additional impairments may need to be recognized in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations.  Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments.Certain of our investments may be illiquid or are in asset classes that have in times of market stress experienced significant market valuation fluctuations.We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity or for which the availability of prices or inputs may be reduced in periods of market dislocation, such as non-agency residential mortgage-backed and collateralized debt obligations securities, as well as investments in affiliates, private equity and private debt securities, and investments in certain hedge funds, which may suspend or delay redemption requests under certain circumstances. Even some of our high quality assets have been more illiquid during periods of challenging market conditions. Generally, securities classified as Level 3 pursuant to the fair value hierarchy set forth in authoritative accounting guidance over fair value measurements may be less liquid, may be more difficult to value, requiring significant judgment, and may be more likely to result in sales at materially different amounts than the fair values determined by management.If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with certain of our reinsurance contracts, credit agreements, derivative transactions or our invested portfolio, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.The reported values of our relatively illiquid types of investments and, in certain circumstances, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market bid price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the market, we may not be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be 34forced to sell them at significantly lower prices, particularly at times of extreme market illiquidity. Any such sales could adversely impact the Company’s financial position.If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, or if increases in the estimated levels of loss reserves are necessary, our financial results and cash flows could be adversely affected.Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense ("LAE") liabilities, which are estimates of future payments of reported and unreported claims for losses and related expenses with respect to insured events that have occurred. The process of establishing reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability, as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. Actuarial estimates of unpaid loss and LAE liabilities are subject to potential errors of estimation, which could be significant, due to the fact that the ultimate disposition of claims incurred prior to the date of such estimation, whether reported or not, is subject to the outcome of events that have not yet occurred. Examples of these events include the accuracy of the information on which the estimates were based, especially as estimates develop, jury decisions, court interpretations, legislative changes, changes in the medical condition of claimants, public attitudes, and economic conditions such as inflation.Inflation in relation to medical costs, construction costs and tort issues in particular impact the property and casualty industry. However, broader market inflation also poses a risk of increasing overall loss costs. The impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered "long tail" such as general liability, worker's compensation and professional liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. Changes in the level of inflation could also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves, particularly for long tail lines of business. The estimation of loss reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims.We have an actuarial staff in each of our operating segments and a Chief Actuary who regularly evaluates the levels of loss reserves, taking into consideration factors that may impact the ultimate losses incurred. Any such evaluation could result in future changes in estimates of losses or reinsurance recoverable and would be reflected in our results of operations in the period in which the estimates are changed. Losses and LAE, to the extent that they exceed the applicable reserves, are charged to income as incurred. The reserve for unpaid losses and LAE comprises case reserves and IBNR and represents the estimated ultimate losses and LAE less paid losses and LAE. During the loss settlement period, which can span many years in duration for casualty business, additional facts regarding individual claims and trends often will become known and case reserves may be adjusted by allocation from IBNR without any change in the overall reserve. In addition, application of statistical and actuarial methods may require the adjustment of the overall reserves upward or downward from time to time. Accordingly, the ultimate settlement of losses may be significantly greater than or less than reported loss and loss expense reserves.The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.Changes to industry practices of legal, judicial, social, political, legislative or other environmental conditions or disruptions that affect businesses' continuity and interdependencies (including supply chain dependencies) could cause unexpected issues related to claim and coverage as well as additional forms of loss experience to emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either expanding coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, such as the effects that disruptions in the credit markets could have on the number and size of reported claims under directors and officers liability insurance ("D&O") and professional liability insurance lines of business. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued the insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. Historically such claims and coverage issues have occurred at heightened levels during periods of very soft market conditions, which often reflect an inflection point in the typical cycle of insurance industry market conditions. In addition, our actual losses may vary materially from our current loss estimates based on a number of factors, including receipt of additional information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of losses to coverages that had not previously been considered as exposed and inflation in repair costs due to additional demand for labor and materials. As a result, the full extent of liability under an insurance or reinsurance contract may not be known for many years after such contract is issued and a loss occurs.Our delegation of underwriting and claims authority to third parties exposes us to operational and financial risks.Part of our insurance business is underwritten and serviced by third parties. With respect to underwriting, our contractual arrangements with third parties will typically grant them limited rights to bind us to new and renewal policies, subject to contractual restrictions and obligations and requiring them to underwrite within the terms of our licenses. Should these third parties issue policies that contravene these contractual restrictions, we could nonetheless be deemed liable for such policies and 35subject to fines and penalties for any breach of licensing requirements. It is possible that in such circumstance we might not be fully indemnified for such third parties' contractual breach.With respect to claims, where we contractually delegate claims adjusting and sometimes give third parties claims funds to manage, we could be exposed to their or their producer's operational risk, including, but not limited to, contract wording errors, handling errors, technological and staffing deficiencies, insolvency and inadequate disaster recovery. We could also be exposed to potential liabilities relating to the claims practices of the third party.The audit procedures, monitoring and other reporting protocols, and protocols concerning the content of our contracts with such third parties, that we have implemented may not be sufficient to mitigate our exposure to the aforementioned risks, which could adversely impact our reputation or client relationships or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.Governmental and regulatory actions may impact the marketplace generally or us in particular.In recent years, the insurance industry has come under increased regulatory and governmental scrutiny in many jurisdictions where we operate, including the United States, the U.K. and the Euro-zone. In the United States, Dodd-Frank has created the FIO within the Treasury that is focused on national coordination of the insurance sector, systemic risk mitigation and international regulatory cooperation. Although the FIO currently does not directly regulate the insurance industry, under Dodd-Frank it has been tasked with improving U.S. insurance regulation and has the power to preempt state insurance regulations that are inconsistent with international agreements regarding insurance regulation, subject to certain exceptions. While we have not yet been required to make material changes to our business or operations as a result of Dodd-Frank, due to the complexity and broad scope of Dodd-Frank and the time required for regulatory implementation, it is not certain what the scope of future rulemaking or interpretive guidance from regulatory agencies may be, and what impact this will have on our compliance costs, business, operations and profitability.In addition, some U.S. state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, as well as state regulators, regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. In one particular example, the NAIC's SMI has created roadmaps (and continual updates thereto) outlining activities, issues and projects underway focused on five specific areas. Capital Requirements, Governance and Risk Management, Group Supervision, Statutory Accounting and Financial Reporting, and Reinsurance. It is expected that the NAIC will ultimately provide guidelines on all of these areas that will in turn trigger activity among insurers to implement compliant processes and platforms. Given the extensive agenda the SMI covers, there remains uncertainty as to this initiative's costs and the impacts it will have on us.Under Dodd-Frank, the Financial Stability Oversight Council ("FSOC") has issued rules establishing the process and criteria by which companies may be designated as nonbank systemically important financial institutions ("SIFIs") subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the FSOC. Similarly, the Financial Stability Board ("FSB"), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations, has issued a series of frameworks and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly global systemically important financial institutions ("G-SIFIs"), should be regulated. These frameworks and recommendations address issues such as financial group supervision, basic capital requirements and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including compensation, and a host of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis. In addition, the FSB has directed the International Association of Insurance Supervisors ("IAIS") to create standards relative to these areas for global systemically important insurers ("G-SIIs") and incorporate them within that body’s Insurance Core Principles. The IAIS is also in the process of developing a comprehensive, group-wide supervisory and regulatory framework for internationally active insurance groups ("IAIGs"), whether or not they are identified as G-SIIs, referred to as the Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups ("ComFrame"). As proposed, ComFrame also will include a quantitative international capital standard ("ICS"), which is currently under development. If the IAIS adopts ComFrame and the ICS, the framework is expected to come into force post-2019, if implemented by the IAIS member supervisors. The IAIS itself will not be responsible for identifying IAIGs under ComFrame. Rather, the group-wide supervisor will lead the identification process in cooperation with the supervisory colleges. While we have not nor expect that we will be designated as a SIFI, G-SIFI, or G-SII, certain of our competitors may be so designated, which may impact market behavior and/or access to capital. As a result of our acquisition of Catlin, we believe that we may meet the criteria to be designated as an IAIG by the time ComFrame is implemented, and consequently and we may become subject to the proposed ICS and enhanced regulatory supervision.Any such governmental actions or future regulatory initiatives may impact certain investment instruments in our investment portfolio, or our competitive position, business or financial position. If global economic and market conditions become uncertain, volatile, or deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.36We may be unable to purchase reinsurance and, even if we are able to successfully purchase reinsurance, it may be inadequate to protect us against losses or uncollectible reinsurance when due.We purchase reinsurance, including retrocessional reinsurance, for our own account in order to mitigate the volatility that losses impose on our financial condition. Retrocessional reinsurance involves a reinsurer ceding to another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has assumed. Reinsurance, including retrocessional reinsurance, does not legally discharge the ceding company from its liability with respect to its obligations to its insureds or reinsureds. A reinsurer’s or retrocessionaire’s insolvency, inability or refusal to make timely payments or otherwise perform under the terms of its agreements with us, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on us because we remain liable to our insureds and reinsureds and may result in a recapture of the reinsured or retroceded business. For further information regarding our reinsurance exposure, see Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."From time to time, market conditions may limit or prevent us from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that we consider adequate for our business needs. For example, after a year with a significant number of major catastrophes, reinsurance may be more difficult or costly to obtain. As a result, we may not be able to obtain reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness in amounts that we deem desirable or on terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable.We also use capital market solutions, such as catastrophe bonds, as part of our overall risk management strategy. The use of catastrophe bonds may not provide the same levels of protections as traditional reinsurance, and like traditional reinsurance, the accessibility of the catastrophe bond market may be impacted by disruptions, volatility or uncertainty, such as following a major catastrophic event. Also, to the extent that we use catastrophe bond transactions based on an industry loss index rather than on our actual incurred losses, such transactions would result in residual risk.Our inability to obtain adequate reinsurance or other protection could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.We have exposure to counterparties in various industries, including banks, hedge funds and other investment vehicles, and in reinsurance and other transactions, including derivative transactions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event our counterparty fails to perform its obligations. Even if we are entitled to collateral when a counterparty defaults, such collateral may be illiquid or proceeds from such collateral when liquidated may not be sufficient to recover the full amount of the obligation. We also have exposure to financial institutions in the form of secured and unsecured debt instruments and equity securities. See Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us.We market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. , As detailed in Item 8, Note 17, "Commitments and Contingencies," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, AON Corporation, Marsh & McLennan Companies and the Willis Group and their respective subsidiaries each provided significant portions of our gross written premiums for property and casualty operations. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our reliance on brokers subjects us to credit risk.In certain jurisdictions, when an insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for policies of insurance or contracts of reinsurance to brokers for further payment to us, such premiums might be considered to have been paid and the insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for such amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. In addition, in accordance with industry practice and contract terms, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased reinsurance from us. Although in some jurisdictions the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, if a broker fails to make such a claims payment to the insured or ceding insurer, we generally remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for that non-payment. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the brokers with whom we transact business. Due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law governing these types of scenarios and our lack of historical experience with such risks, we are unable to quantify our exposure to this risk.We are subject to a number of risks associated with the global nature of our business.A material portion of our revenues is derived from our clients in Europe, North America and Bermuda. Weak demand or market disruption in these regions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We have also continued to 37pursue opportunities in other countries, including in developing markets such as Asia, Africa and Latin America. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the regions in which we operate could make it more difficult to forecast accurately product demand and effectively develop business, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In conducting business in developing markets we are subject to a number of significant risks. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, ownership limits and other restrictive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. The occurrence of one or more of these or other risks in one country may affect our operations in another country or countries. In addition, some countries, particularly developing economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. Other risks are less developed forms of government supervision, regulation and legal process including less developed corporate, contract and bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, and the lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally.Other risks involved with conducting business in developing markets include political and social instability, political violence, strikes, riots, kidnap and ransom, civil unrest, expropriation and terrorism as well as greater price volatility of investment positions, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in developed markets. In addition, competition for skilled employees in developing markets may be intense. These risks may lead to higher than anticipated transaction costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Actual results could materially differ from the analytical models we use to assist our decision making in key areas such as underwriting, pricing, capital, hedging, reserving, and catastrophe risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or liquidity.We use various modeling techniques (e.g., scenarios, predictive, stochastic and/or forecasting) and data analytics to analyze and estimate exposures, assess product pricing and pricing adequacy, loss trends and other risks associated with our assets and liabilities. We use the modeled outputs and related analyses to assist us in decision making (e.g., capital setting, capital allocation, underwriting, reserving, pricing, reinsurance purchasing, investment decisions and managing catastrophe exposure). The modeled outputs and related analyses - both from proprietary and third party models - are subject to various assumptions, uncertainties, model errors and the inherent limitations of any statistical analysis, including the availability, use, accuracy and relevance of historical, internal and industry data, and incorporate numerous assumptions and forecasts about the future level and variability of interest rates, inflation, capital requirements, loss frequency and severity, currency exchange rates, policyholder behavior, meteorological and seismological relationships, the state of the judicial climate and equity markets, among others. In addition, the modeled outputs and related analyses may from time to time contain inaccuracies, perhaps in material respects, including as a result of inaccurate inputs or applications thereof. Further, the effectiveness of any model can be degraded by operational risks including, but not limited to, the improper use of the model, including input errors, data errors, and human error. Misuse of the model's outputs includes potential overreliance upon the model's outputs beyond its domain of statistical relevance. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from our modeled results. If, based upon these models or other factors, we miscalculate the amount of capital we are required to hold, or we misprice our products or underestimate the frequency and/or severity of loss events, or incorrectly estimate the risks we are exposed to, new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.Whether we use a proprietary or third party model, future experience may be materially different from past experience, and events occurring or continuing to occur, or the correlation among events. Third party models may provide substantially different indications than what our proprietary modeling processes provide. As a result, third party model estimates of losses can be, and often have been, materially different for similar events in comparison to our proprietary estimates. The differences between third party model estimates and our proprietary estimates are driven by the use of different data sets as well as different assumptions and forecasts regarding the frequency and severity of events and claims arising from the events.If we fail to appropriately price the risks we insure, or fail to change our pricing model to appropriately reflect our current experience, or if our claims experience is more frequent or severe than our underlying risk assumptions, our profit margins may be negatively affected. If we underestimate the frequency and/or severity of extreme adverse events occurring, our financial condition may be adversely affected. If we overestimate the risks to which we are exposed, we may overprice our products, and new business growth and retention of our existing business may be adversely affected. Consequently, actual results may differ materially from our modeled results. The profitability and financial condition of the Company substantially depends on the extent to which our actual experience is consistent with assumptions we use in our models and ultimate model outputs. If, 38based upon these models or other factors, we misprice our products or our estimates of risks we are exposed to prove to be materially inaccurate, our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity may be adversely affected.Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends, make payments on our debt securities and make other payments.Our ability to pay dividends or return capital from shareholders’ equity is limited by applicable laws and regulations of the various jurisdictions in which our principal operating subsidiaries operate, certain additional required regulatory approvals and financial covenants contained in our letters of credit and revolving credit facilities.As holding companies, XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman have no operations of their own and their assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman rely on the availability of dividends and other permissible payments from subsidiaries to make principal and interest payments on debt, to pay operating expenses and XL-Ireland ordinary and XL-Cayman preferred shareholder dividends, to make capital investments in subsidiaries and to pay other obligations that may arise from time to time. The payment of dividends by our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries is regulated under the laws of various countries, including Bermuda, the U.K., Ireland, Switzerland and in the other countries where we have regulated subsidiaries, by certain insurance statutes of various states in the United States in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business and by the Society of Lloyd’s. For further information regarding regulatory restrictions governing the payment of dividends by the Company’s significant property and casualty subsidiaries in Ireland, the U.K., Bermuda and the U.S., see Item 8, Note 23, "Statutory Financial Data," to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Item 1, "Business – Regulation."XL-Ireland is subject to certain legal constraints that affect its ability to pay dividends on or redeem or buyback our ordinary shares. While XL-Ireland’s Articles of Association authorize the Board to declare and pay dividends as justified from the profits, under Irish law, XL-Ireland may only pay dividends or buyback or redeem shares using distributable reserves. As of December 31, 2015, XL-Ireland had $2.9 billion in distributable reserves. In addition, no dividend or distribution may be made unless the net assets of XL-Ireland are not less than the aggregate of its share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce XL-Ireland’s net assets below such aggregate amount.In addition, XL-Cayman is subject to certain constraints that affect its ability to pay dividends to XL-Ireland or to holders of its preferred shares. Under Cayman Islands law, XL-Cayman may not declare or pay a dividend if there are reasonable grounds for believing that XL-Cayman is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due in the ordinary course of business. Also, the terms of XL-Cayman’s preferred shares prohibit it from declaring or paying dividends on the ordinary shares that XL-Ireland holds unless full dividends have been declared and paid on the outstanding preferred shares.The ability to declare and pay dividends may also be restricted by financial covenants in our letters of credit and revolving credit facilities. We were in compliance with all such financial covenants by significant margins at December 31, 2015, and currently remain in compliance.We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, on a timely basis or at all.Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. To the extent that the funds generated by our ongoing operations are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and cover claim payments, or that our capital position is adversely impacted by mark-to-market changes on the investment portfolio, catastrophe events or otherwise, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any future financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our letter of credit facilities are needed to a significant extent for U.S. cedants, and are effective for such cedants only if the banks issuing letters of credit are on the list of NAIC approved banks. If some or all of the issuing banks under our credit facilities cease to be NAIC approved, whether arising from macroeconomic or bank specific events, and we are unable to replace non-approved banks with NAIC approved banks, our letter of credit facility capacity could be significantly diminished. In addition, in the case of a macroeconomic event, such as dissolution of the European Monetary Union, the availability of alternative lending sources may be significantly reduced or non-existent, and the cost of replacement facilities may be significantly increased or prohibitive. Any future equity financings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. Our inability to obtain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Competition in the insurance and reinsurance industries could reduce our operating margins.The insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermudian, European and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial and management resources and higher ratings than we have. We also compete with new companies 39that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets and with alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products, such as insurance/risk-linked securities, catastrophe bonds and derivatives. In recent years, capital market participants have been increasingly active in the reinsurance market and markets for related risks. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could reduce our margins.Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business.Losses can result from operational risk such as, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, failure to appropriately transition new hires or external events. Areas of operational risk can be heightened after a major acquisition, or in discontinued or exited businesses as a result of reduced overall resource allocation and the loss of relevant knowledge and expertise by departing management or employees.We operate globally, and have two office locations in India, one in Poland and one in Kuala Lumpur that currently provide large portions of our back office support. Our global operations present significant operational risk due to the possibility of political instability, disruptions in communication or information processes, whether due to technical difficulties, power failures or destruction or damage to our offices for any reason. If any disruption occurs, our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective, particularly if natural or man-made catastrophic events occur, and such disruption could harm our results of operations or our reputation in the marketplace.We believe that our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business, as our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Moreover, our information technology and application systems have been important to our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. Our business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. Our ability to adequately price products and services, to establish reserves, to provide effective and efficient service to our clients, and to timely and accurately report our financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems and processes supporting them. Failure of any of these systems or inaccuracies in the data stored therein may jeopardize our ability to service and interact with clients and report to regulators, which could result in significant losses, reputational damage or regulatory non-compliance. In addition, we have licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. We have outsourced custody and record-keeping of our investment portfolio to third-party managers, custodians and investment accounting service providers that we believe to be reputable.  We have also outsourced a significant portion of the day-to-day management of our investment portfolio to third party managers. A major defect in those investment managers’ investment management strategy or decision-making could result in management distraction and/or significant financial loss. We also have outsourced claims handling for certain of our business, including portions of our Run-Off Life Operations, to third parties and we rely on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues. A major defect in our brokers’, claims managers', investment managers’, custodians’ or investment accounting services providers' internal controls or information and technology systems could result in management distraction or significant financial loss or other negative impact on our business.Any ineffectiveness in our internal controls, information technology, application systems, investment management (including, without limitation, in setting our investment strategy or in our investment managers' execution of such strategy) or custody and record keeping could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any ineffectiveness in the internal controls, information technology, application systems, investment management strategy or execution or custody or record keeping of any of our aforementioned vendors could also have a material adverse effect on our business.Information security risks, data protection breaches and cyber attacks could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our approach to cyber risk and information security follows a defense-in-depth strategy to defend against any attacks. This includes a layered tactical scheme using multiple security controls that are designed to compensate when any control fails or a vulnerability is exploited. However, every company's (including our) internal control and information technology and application systems may be vulnerable to threats from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attacks and other similar disruptions. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network’s system security measures and misappropriate or compromise confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. In addition to our own confidential information, as a (re)insurer, we receive and are required to protect confidential information from clients and other third parties. To the extent any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information or that of others, it could impact our operations, cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers and clients, lead to claims against us, result in regulatory 40action and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to mitigate the damage caused by any security breach, or to protect against future damage.Unanticipated losses from terrorism and uncertainty surrounding the future of the TRIPRA could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The U.S. Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 ("TRIA"), as amended, established the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program ("TRIP"), which became effective on November 26, 2002 and was a three-year federal program effective through 2005. On December 22, 2005, President George W. Bush signed a bill extending TRIA for two more years, continuing TRIP through 2007. On December 26, 2007, President George W. Bush signed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 ("TRIPRA") which further extended TRIP for seven years until December 31, 2014 and also eliminated the distinction between foreign and domestic acts of terrorism. On January 12, 2015, President Barack H. Obama signed TRIPRA 2015, which is effective retroactively to December 31, 2014 and extends authorization of the TRIP for six years through December 31, 2020. TRIPRA 2015 makes modifications to TRIP by, among other things, establishing a National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers and exempting certain swap participants from capital requirements established under the Dodd-Frank Act.In response to the lack of availability in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11 event, the TRIP was created upon the enactment of the TRIA of 2002 to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for certain terrorist acts in the U.S. This law established a federal program that has now been extended to December 31, 2020, to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses and to require insurers to offer coverage for terrorist acts.TRIA voided in force terrorism exclusions as of November 26, 2002 for certified terrorism on all TRIA specified property and casualty business. TRIA required covered insurers to make coverage available for certified acts of terrorism on all new and renewal policies issued after TRIA was enacted. TRIA along with further extensions to TRIP, as noted above, allows us to assess a premium charge for terrorism coverage and, if the policyholder declines the coverage or fails to pay the buy-back premium, certified acts of terrorism may then be excluded from the policy, subject, however, to state specific requirements. Terrorism coverage cannot be excluded from workers’ compensation policies. Subject to a premium-based deductible and provided that we have otherwise complied with all the requirements as specified under TRIPRA, we are eligible for reimbursement by the Federal Government for up to 85% (which decreases to 80% in 2020) of our covered terrorism-related losses arising from a certified terrorist attack. Such payment by the government will, in effect, provide reinsurance protection on a quota share basis. The maximum liability during a program year, including both the Federal Government’s and insurers’ shares, is capped on an aggregated basis at $100 billion. While regulations have been promulgated by the Department of the Treasury ("Treasury") requiring that Treasury advise participating insurers, such as the Company, in advance of reaching the $100 billion aggregate limit that such aggregate limit could be reached during the program year, there is a risk that the Company will not be given adequate notice of the potential exhaustion of that aggregate limit. Accordingly, the Company could overpay with regard to such losses, and it is unlikely Treasury would reimburse the Company for such losses; moreover, it is unclear whether the Company, in the event of an overpayment, would be able to recover the amount of any such overpayment. In addition, there is a risk that the occurrence of an event that results in an industry loss that exceeds the $100 billion cap will result in the Company not being reimbursed and reduced coverage for policyholders with terrorism coverage.We believe that TRIP and the related legislation have been an effective mechanism to assist policyholders and industry participants with the extreme contingent losses that might be caused by acts of terrorism. Nevertheless, TRIPRA 2015 may not be extended beyond 2020, and its expiration or a significant change in terms could have an adverse effect on us, our clients or the insurance industry.The regulatory regimes under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries operate in more than 20 countries around the world as well as in all 50 U.S. states. Our operations in each of these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, that these subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition and restrict payments of dividends, distributions and reductions of capital in certain circumstances. Statutes, regulations and policies that our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make certain investments and distribute funds.Capital adequacy and risk management regulations, called Solvency II, were implemented throughout the EEA on January 1, 2016. We devote a significant amount of time and resources to comply with Solvency II, and our implementation of Solvency II. The CBI is our group regulator under Solvency II. See Item 1, "Business – Regulation," included herein. Regulations and legislation relating to capital adequacy and risk management are also in the process of being developed or 41implemented in other jurisdictions. To date, the insurance regulatory regimes of Bermuda and Switzerland are the non-E.U. jurisdictions that have been determined to be fully equivalent with Solvency II. In particular, other jurisdictions in which we operate, including the U.S., Canada, Brazil, Mexico and Australia, to date have been granted only provisional equivalence for Solvency II group solvency calculations. There remains significant uncertainty as to the impact that these various regulations and legislation will have on us. Such impacts could include constraints on our ability to move capital between subsidiaries or requirements that additional capital be provided to subsidiaries in certain jurisdictions, which may adversely impact our profitability.In addition, under Solvency II, effective January 1, 2016, E.U. cedants placing reinsurance with (re)insurers that are domiciled in either the E.U. (or in countries that are deemed equivalent to the Solvency II regime for these purposes) receive full credit for such reinsurance. Our operating subsidiaries that are not domiciled in the E.U. (and that are not otherwise domiciled in Solvency II equivalent jurisdictions) that provide reinsurance to E.U. cedants may be required by such cedants to post collateral in order for such cedants to receive full credit for the reinsurance ceded. This could increase the cost of doing business,which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Similarly, there is a risk that our operating subsidiaries purchasing reinsurance protection from (re)insurers not domiciled in the E.U. (and that are not domiciled in jurisdictions that are deemed Solvency II equivalent) will not receive full credit for such reinsurance which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1, "Business - Regulation - Solvency II Equivalence," included herein for more information regarding the Solvency II equivalence process.Our Bermuda-based operating subsidiaries are subject to the BMA’s risk-based capital standards for (re)insurance companies, which impose required levels of statutory capital and surplus on our Bermuda-based operating standards. Our Switzerland-based operating subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the FINMA, whose regulations include Swiss Solvency test. Our U.K. based regulated entities, which includes our Lloyd's syndicates, are subject to the PRA's risk-based capital requirements under the Solvency II regime. While we currently have excess capital and surplus under these requirements, such requirements or similar regulations, in their current form or as they may be amended in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain desired exemptions from, statutes, regulations and policies that govern the conduct of our business. Failure to comply with, or to obtain desired authorizations and/or exemptions under, any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which we are, or may become subject, or in the interpretations thereof by enforcement or regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.The statutory credit afforded to certain aspects of our capital may change in the future.The components of our capital fall within various categories under Solvency II and other regulatory capital regimes. Each of these categories is afforded different treatment and this treatment may change in the future. For example, under Solvency II our subordinated notes due 2025 and 2045 constitute Tier 2 capital. If at any time in the future we require each series of the subordinated notes to constitute Tier 2 capital under the laws implementing Solvency II in a European Union Member State other than Ireland, or under another regulatory capital regime, these subordinated notes may not meet the requirements of that jurisdiction, which may impact our ability to include each series of subordinated notes as Tier 2 capital. It is possible that the Solvency II framework will be amended or replaced in the future and there is no assurance that the subordinated notes will continue to qualify as Tier 2 Capital or basic own funds under any amended or replacement framework. If any our capital fails to receive the treatment its does today, we may be required to raise additional capital that would be afforded the necessary treatment under Solvency II or another regulatory capital regime. Any such capital raise would be subject to market and other conditions, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to raise such capital when needed. We are subject to laws and regulations relating to sanctions, anti-corruption and money laundering, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations.Our activities are subject to applicable economic and trade sanctions, money laundering regulations, and anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions where we operate, including the U.K. and the European Community and the U.S., among others. for example, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, compliance with which may impose significant costs, limit or restrict our ability to do business or engage in certain activities, or subject us to the possibility of civil or criminal actions or proceedings. Although we have in place systems and controls designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we, our employees, and our agents acting on our behalf may not be in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations as interpreted by the relevant authorities and, given the complex nature of the risks, it may not always be possible for us to attain compliance with such laws and regulations. Furthermore, these risks are heightened due to the fact that the sanctions relief implemented as a result of the Iran Nuclear Agreement differs for our U.S. subsidiaries and persons as compared to our E.U. subsidiaries and persons. Failure to accurately interpret or comply with or obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under such laws or regulations could subject us to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil 42remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license, reputational consequences, and other sanctions, all of which could damage our business or reputation. Such damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Potential government intervention in our industry and instability in the marketplace for insurance products could hinder our flexibility and negatively affect the business opportunities that may be available to us in the market.Government intervention and the possibility of future government intervention have created uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, such proposals could adversely affect our business by, among other things:▪providing insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target, e.g., the creation or expansion of state or federal catastrophe funds such as those in the state of Florida;▪requiring our participation in industry pools and guarantee associations;▪expanding the scope of coverage or altering the enforceability of deductibles under existing policies; ▪regulating the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies;▪ordering the suspension of or otherwise altering the application of insurance laws or regulations; or ▪disproportionately benefiting the companies of one country over those of another.The insurance industry is also affected by legislative, political, judicial and legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability, which may result in unexpected claims frequency and severity and delays or cancelations of products and services by insureds, insurers and reinsurers, which could adversely affect our business.For further information regarding government regulation and/or intervention in response to the financial and credit crises, see risk factor entitled "Governmental and regulatory actions may impact the marketplace generally or us in particular" above.Consolidation in the insurance industry could adversely impact us.Insurance industry participants have consolidated through recent mergers and acquisitions and may continue to seek to consolidate. Continued consolidation within the insurance industry will further enhance the already competitive underwriting environment as we would likely experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. These consolidated entities may use their enhanced market power and broader capital base to negotiate price reductions for our products and services, and reduce their use of reinsurance, and, as such, we may experience rate declines and possibly write less business.The loss of one or more key executives or the inability to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our ability to conduct business.Our success depends on our ability to attract new, highly skilled individuals and to motivate and retain our existing key executives and qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability to attract, motivate and retain other highly skilled individuals in the future could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In addition, we do not necessarily maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to our senior employees.A decrease in the fair values of our reporting units may result in future goodwill impairments.When we acquire an entity, the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. The goodwill is then assigned to a level of reporting referred to as a "reporting unit" for purposes of impairment testing.  We conduct impairment tests on our goodwill at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist. In performing a goodwill impairment test, we use various methods and make various assumptions to determine the fair value of our reporting units, including the determination of expected future cash flows and/or profitability of such reporting units, and we take into account market value multiples and/or cash flows of entities that we deem to be comparable in nature, scope or size to our reporting units. However, expected future cash flows and/or profitability may be materially and negatively impacted as a result of, among other things, a decrease in pricing or renewal activity and new business opportunities, a decrease in the retention of our underwriting teams, lower-than-expected yields and/or cash flows from our investment portfolio or higher-than-expected claims activity and incurred losses and general economic factors that impact the reporting unit. In addition, previously determined market value multiples and/or cash flows may no longer be relevant as a result of these potential factors. As a result of these potential changes, the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units may decrease, causing the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit - which includes the value of the assigned goodwill - to exceed the 43fair value of such net assets, thus creating a goodwill impairment. If we determine such an impairment exists, we adjust the carrying value of goodwill to its implied fair value. The impairment charge is recorded in our income statement in the period in which the impairment is determined. If we are required in the future to record additional goodwill impairments, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. In connection with fair value measurements and the accounting for goodwill, the use of generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and assumptions, and actual results may ultimately be materially different from such estimates and assumptions.We are exposed to risks in connection with our alternative capital arrangements and with respect to services provided to third parties. We have and may continue to establish, operate, invest in or manage third party capital vehicles. In connection with these arrangements, a primary portion of the business written by the insurers affiliated with these third party capital vehicles will be reinsurance or retrocessional contracts ceded by XL entities. XL will continue to underwrite business for its own portfolios in accordance with its own policies, strategies and business plans and XL Catlin may, and likely will, write business for itself which would otherwise have been suitable for one or more of these third party capital vehicles. As a result, there may be situations in which the interests of one or more third party capital vehicle may conflict with the interests of another such vehicle or XL Catlin.  Additionally, XL Catlin entities and/or their respective partners, principals, employees, officers, directors, shareholders and affiliates (“XL Persons”) may have investment interests in, hold directorships with, serve as executives of, or otherwise be involved with, these third party capital vehicles.   As a result, conflicts may also arise in cases where an XL Person simultaneously performs services for a third party capital vehicle and for XL Catlin. Such forgoing conflicts could have a negative effect on our relationship with such third party capital vehicles or our reputation generally and could materially impact our investments in those vehicles.Our asset manager affiliate (New Ocean Capital Management Limited), our insurance manager affiliate (XL Underwriting Managers Ltd.) or our other affiliated investment vehicles in which we may be involved may owe certain legal duties and obligations to counterparties or third party investors (including reporting obligations), and will be subject to complex laws and regulations relating to such duties and obligations. Compliance with some of these laws and regulations, all of which are subject to change, requires significant management time and attention. Although New Ocean will seek to continually monitor its policies and procedures to attempt to ensure compliance, faulty or mistaken judgments or representations, errors or the failure of its personnel to adhere to its policies and procedures could result in its failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations which could result in significant liabilities, penalties or other losses and harm our business and results of operations. Provisions in our Articles of Association may reduce the voting rights of our ordinary shares.Our Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting power that may be exercised by certain persons or groups may not equal or exceed 10% of the voting power conferred by our shares.In particular, our Articles of Association provide that if, and for so long as, the votes conferred by the Controlled Shares (as defined below) of any person constitute 10% or more of the votes conferred by all our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the Controlled Shares of such person shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power equal to approximately (but slightly less than) 10%, pursuant to a formula set forth in our Articles of Association. "Controlled Shares" of a person (as defined in our Articles of Association) include (1) all of our shares owned directly, indirectly or constructively by that person (within the meaning of Section 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "IRS Code")) and (2) all of our shares owned directly, indirectly or constructively by that person or any "group" of which that person is a part, within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.Provisions in our Articles of Association may restrict the ownership and transfer of our ordinary shares.Our Articles of Association provide that the Board shall decline to register a transfer of shares if it appears to the Board, whether before or after such transfer, that the effect of such transfer would be to increase the number of Controlled Shares of any person to 10% or more of any class of our voting shares, of our total issued shares, or of the total voting power of our total issued shares.Certain provisions in our charter documents could, among other things, impede an attempt to replace our directors or impose restrictions with respect to a change of control, which could diminish the value of our ordinary shares.Our Articles of Association contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors and could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions currently include limitations on the ability of shareholders to remove directors, limitations on voting rights, certain transfer restrictions on our 44ordinary shares and a partially classified board of directors (which will be fully declassified following our 2016 Annual General Meeting).As an Irish company, we are subject to the Irish Takeover Rules, under which the Board is not permitted to take any action that might "frustrate" an offer for our shares once the Board has received an offer or has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent without the approval of more than 50% of shareholders entitled to vote at a general meeting of shareholders and/or the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel. This could limit the ability of the Board of Directors to take defensive actions even if the Board believes that such defensive actions would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.The Irish Takeover Rules also could discourage an investor from acquiring 30% or more of our outstanding ordinary shares unless such investor was prepared to make a bid to acquire all outstanding ordinary shares. Further, it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction because of heightened shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions under Irish law.In addition, insurance regulations in certain jurisdictions may also delay or prevent a change of control or limit the ability of a shareholder to acquire in excess of specified amounts of our ordinary shares.Irish shareholder voting requirements may limit flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management.Irish law allows shareholders to authorize a board of directors to issue shares subsequent to receipt of authorization without further shareholder approval, but this authorization must be renewed at least every five years. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing ordinary shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows such shareholders to authorize the waiver of such statutory preemption rights for up to five years. Our shareholders have (i) authorized the Board of Directors to issue shares without further shareholder approval, and (ii) waived their statutory preemption rights in the event of either (a) the issuance of shares for cash in connection with any rights issue or (b) the issuance of shares for cash, if the issuance is limited to up to 5% of our ordinary share capital as of March 17, 2015, in each case for a period of 18 months beginning on May 8, 2015. Therefore, this share issuance authorization and waiver of rights will in each case expire in November 2016, unless renewed by XL-Ireland’s shareholders. These authorizations and waivers may not always be renewed, which could limit our ability to issue equity in the future. Furthermore, issuances that do not fall within the preemption waiver authorization approved by our shareholders may require that we provide shareholders with the right to subscribe for new issuances pro rata with their existing holdings, which may increase the cost and administrative burden associated with such issuances.It may be difficult to enforce judgments against XL-Ireland, XL-Cayman or their directors and executive officers.XL-Ireland is incorporated pursuant to the laws of Ireland. In addition, from time to time, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of any such directors and officers are located outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or to recover on judgments of U.S. courts against us or such directors and officers, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland:▪the judgment must be for a definite sum;▪the judgment must be final and conclusive; and▪the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction.An Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment.In addition, XL-Cayman is incorporated pursuant to the laws of the Cayman Islands and is an Irish tax resident. Requirements for enforceability of foreign judgments in Ireland are summarized above. We have been advised that there is doubt as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would enforce:▪judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws obtained in actions against XL-Cayman or its directors and officers who reside outside the United States; or▪original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against these persons or XL-Cayman predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws.45There is also no treaty in effect between the United States and the Cayman Islands providing for such enforcement and there are grounds upon which Cayman Islands courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Cayman Islands courts as contrary to public policy.Current, pending or future lawsuits against us, including putative class action lawsuits, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular fiscal quarter or year.We are subject to lawsuits and arbitrations in the regular course of our business. An adverse resolution of one or more lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular fiscal quarter or year.Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results.Developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity and other relevant financial statement line items and the timing of when impairments and other charges are tested or taken. We and our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.We take the position that neither we nor any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries are engaged in a U.S. trade or business through a U.S. permanent establishment. Accordingly, we take the position that neither we nor our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") will not contend successfully that we or any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If we or any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, any such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.Changes in U.S. tax law might adversely affect an investment in our shares.Legislation may be introduced in the U.S. Congress attempting to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the U.S. but have certain U.S. affiliates. For example, one legislative proposal could impose additional limits on the deductibility of interest by foreign-owned U.S. corporations. Another legislative proposal could modify the standards that indicate when a non-U.S. corporation might be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it were considered to be primarily managed and controlled in the U.S. In addition, legislation has been proposed in the U.S. that would severely restrict the ability of a company to utilize affiliate reinsurance to manage its U.S. risks and its capital position. Various proposals have been made that would effectively disallow (in some cases permanently and in others temporarily) part or all of the deduction for premiums ceded to affiliates. If any of these proposals, or a similar proposal using the same underlying principles, is enacted, it could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. It is possible that other legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could also have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders.Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent establishment) within the United States or is a Passive Foreign Investment Company ("PFIC"), or whether U.S. holders would be required to include in their gross income "subpart F income" or the related person insurance income, which we refer to as "RPII" of a Controlled Foreign Corporation ("CFC"), are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.Future legislative action may increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by us. If an increase occurs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.There is U.S. income tax risk associated with reinsurance between U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates.As discussed above, the U.S. Congress has periodically considered legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of non-U.S. insurance companies and U.S. insurance companies with non-U.S. affiliates, including perceived tax 46benefits resulting principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance companies and their non-U.S. affiliates. In this regard, section 845 of the IRS Code was amended in 2004 to permit the IRS to reallocate, recharacterize or adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper "amount, source or character" for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered "source and character"). If the IRS were to successfully challenge our reinsurance arrangements under section 845, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the price of our ordinary shares could be adversely affected.The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has launched an Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting that if implemented might change the manner in which we are taxed.  In July 2013, The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ("the OECD") launched an Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting ("BEPS Action Plan"). The BEPS Action Plan identifies 15 specific actions to address tax planning strategies that exploit gaps and mismatches in tax rules to artificially shift profits to low or no-tax locations where there is little or no economic activity, resulting in little or no overall corporate tax being paid. In addition, the BEPS Action Plan sets deadlines to implement the actions and identifies the resources needed and the methodology to implement these actions. The OECD presented the final package of BEPS measures for the 15 actions outlined in the plan on October 5, 2015. For the first time in tax matters, non-OECD/G20 countries are expected to participate on an equal footing in monitoring BEPS and supporting the implementation of these BEPS measures. The implementation of these BEPS measures could have a material impact on how we and other multinational organizations are taxed. The European Commission has published proposals on anti-tax avoidance that if implemented might change the manner in which we are taxedIn January 2016, The European Commission (“The Commission”) published its Anti-Tax Avoidance Package (“The Tax Package”). The Tax Package is based around three core pillars of The Commissions agenda for taxation: ensuring effective taxation in the E.U.; increasing tax transparency; and securing a level playing field. The Commission proposals include a new Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive to provide a common E.U. framework for implementing the OECD’s BEPS measures, an amendment to the current Directive on mandatory automatic exchange of information to implement the OECD’S recommendations on country-by-country reporting in the E.U. and a recommendation to E.U. Member States on tax treaties. The implementation of The Tax Package could have a material impact on how we and other multinational organizations are taxed.If an investor acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to taxation under the  U.S. "controlled foreign corporation" ("CFC") rules.Under certain circumstances, a U.S. person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of a foreign corporation that is a CFC (a foreign corporation in which 10% U.S. shareholders own more than 50% of the value or voting power of the stock of the foreign corporation or more than 25% of a foreign insurance company) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year must include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such "10% U.S. Shareholder’s" pro rata share of the CFC’s "subpart F income," even if the subpart F income is not distributed to such 10% U.S. Shareholder, if such 10% U.S. Shareholder owns (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) any shares of the foreign corporation on the last day of the corporation’s taxable year. "Subpart F income" of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income) attributable to the insurance of risks situated outside the CFC’s country of incorporation.While provisions in our organizational documents serve to limit voting power on our ordinary shares, it is possible, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge, in which case an investor’s investment could be materially adversely affected, if the investor is considered to own 10% or more of our shares.U.S. Persons who hold shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes.If we are considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. person who owns any of our shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case an investor’s investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a "step-up" in the basis of the shares that might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, we may be deemed a PFIC by the IRS in the future. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. There are currently no final regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or 47clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation.There are U.S. income tax risks associated with the related person insurance income of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries.If (i) the related person insurance income, which we refer to as "RPII," of any one of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and (ii) U.S. persons were treated as owning 25% or more of the subsidiary’s stock (by vote or value), a U.S. person who owns any ordinary shares, directly or indirectly, on the last day of such taxable year on which the 25% threshold is met would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. holders at that date, regardless of whether that income is distributed. The amount of RPII earned by a subsidiary (generally premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares of that subsidiary or any person related to that holder) would depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by that subsidiary. Although we do not believe that the 20% threshold will be met in respect of any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries, some of the factors that may affect the result in any period may be beyond our control. Consequently, it is possible that we could exceed the RPII threshold in any taxable year.The RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation that had RPII (even if the 20% gross income threshold was not met) and met the 25% ownership threshold at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, and the holder owned any stock at such time, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share (taking into account certain rules for determining a U.S. holder’s share of RPII) of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. We believe that these rules should not apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares because XL-Ireland is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot provide absolute assurance, however, that the IRS will not successfully assert that these rules apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares.We and our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries may become subject to taxes in Bermuda in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and your investment.Our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries have received from the Ministry of Finance in Bermuda exemptions from any Bermuda taxes that might be imposed on profits, income or any capital asset, gain or appreciation until March 31, 2035. The exemptions are subject to the proviso that they are not construed so as to prevent the application of any tax or duty to persons who are ordinarily residents in Bermuda (the Company and our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries are not so currently designated) and to prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of The Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to the land leased to us and our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries. XL-Ireland and other Bermuda-based subsidiaries not incorporated in Bermuda have also received similar exemptions as permit companies under the Companies Act of 1981 of Bermuda. These exemptions have also been extended to 2035. Our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries are required to pay certain annual Bermuda government fees and certain business fees as a (re)insurer under The Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda. Currently there is no Bermuda withholding tax on dividends paid by our Bermuda (re)-insurance subsidiaries to us. The tax rules as presently applied may change in the future, however.XL-Cayman may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands after June 2, 2018, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.For tax purposes, XL-Cayman is resident in Ireland by virtue of central management and control. In the event the Cayman Islands introduces a corporate income tax based on place of incorporation, XL-Cayman would be a dual resident company and potentially subject to tax in both Ireland and the Cayman Islands. As there is no double tax treaty between the Cayman Islands and Ireland, XL-Cayman could become subject to taxation in both Ireland and the Cayman Islands. Under current Cayman Islands law, we are not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman Islands on our income or gains. We have received an undertaking from the Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands pursuant to the provisions of the Tax Concessions Law, as amended, that until June 2, 2018, (i) no subsequently enacted law imposing any tax on profits, income, gains or appreciation shall apply to XL-Cayman and (ii) no such tax and no tax in the nature of an estate duty or an inheritance tax shall be payable on any of XL-Cayman's ordinary shares, debentures or other obligations. Given the limited duration of the undertaking from the Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Cayman Islands tax after June 2, 2018. Such taxation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on your investment.48Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof.Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the tax authorities in Ireland, the United States and other jurisdictions. Such tax law changes could cause a material and adverse change in our worldwide effective tax rate and we may have to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to mitigate the effect of such changes. Any future amendments to the current income tax treaties between Ireland and other jurisdictions, including the United States, could subject us to increased taxation and/or potentially significant expense.Dividends you receive may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax and Irish income tax.Dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on the Company’s ordinary shares. However, a number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that ordinary shareholders resident in the United States and ordinary shareholders resident in other specified countries (listed in Annex F attached to the Redomestication Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on March 10, 2010) may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax if they complete and file certain dividend withholding tax forms. Ordinary shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their ordinary shares through the Depository Trust Company ("DTC") will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such ordinary shares in the records of the brokers holding such ordinary shares are in the United States (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by the Company). Similarly, ordinary shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their ordinary shares directly instead of beneficially through DTC are not subject to dividend withholding tax if such ordinary shareholders held ordinary shares in the Company on January 12, 2010 and they provided a valid Form W-9 showing a U.S. address to the Company’s transfer agent. In addition, XL shareholders resident in the U.S. that acquire their XL Shares after January 12, 2010 and that hold their XL Shares directly instead of beneficially through DTC are not subject to Irish dividend withholding tax if such XL shareholders satisfy the conditions of any of one of several exemptions from Irish dividend withholding tax (exemptions include where such an XL shareholder is an individual neither resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland, or such an XL shareholder is a company not under the control of a person or persons that is or are resident in Ireland), including the requirements to furnish completed Irish Revenue Commissioners' prescribed dividend withholding tax forms and that such forms remain valid. However, other ordinary shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.In addition, ordinary shareholders entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from the Company should not be subject to Irish income tax in respect of those dividends, unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their ordinary shareholdings in the Company. Ordinary shareholders who receive dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those dividends unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their ordinary shareholding in the Company.A future transfer of your ordinary shares, other than one effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in DTC, may be subject to Irish stamp duty.Transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in DTC will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. The majority of our ordinary shares will be traded through DTC, either directly or through brokers who hold such ordinary shares on behalf of customers through DTC. However, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than beneficially through DTC (or through a broker that holds your ordinary shares through DTC), any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the ordinary shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.The Catlin Acquisition may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.As a result of the Catlin Acquisition, we may be exposed to significant unanticipated liabilities. These liabilities could include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, and claims by or amounts owed to vendors. We may also incur liabilities or claims associated with our acquisition of Catlin’s technology and intellectual property including claims of infringement. Particularly in international jurisdictions, our acquisition of Catlin, or our decision to independently enter new international markets where Catlin previously conducted business, could also expose us to tax liabilities and other amounts owed by Catlin. The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.   49We face risks related to operating at Lloyd’s.As a result of the Catlin Acquisition, we are the largest underwriting syndicate in Lloyd's. As a result, we are exposed to the risks facing syndicates operating at Lloyd's, which include, but are not limited to, the following factors which, alone or in combination, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations:•having exposure to the Council of Lloyd's (the "Council") wide discretionary powers to regulate members of Lloyd's, including the Council's power to vary the method by which the capital solvency ratio is calculated;•being subject to increased capital requirements due to changes in regulation;•facing reputational issues arising from the actions of other Lloyd's syndicates;•being subject to potential changes in business strategy due to requirements of the Lloyd's Franchise Board (which is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Lloyd's market);•reduced underwriting capacity due to a reduction in the funds held in trust at Lloyd's (as a result of changes in the market value of investments or otherwise) to support underwriting activities;•being required to cease or reduce underwriting if Lloyd's fails to satisfy the FCA's and the PRA's annual solvency test in any given year;•having a reduced ability to trade in certain classes of business at current levels as a consequence of a downgrading of the Lloyd's market;•being subject to additional or special levies imposed by the Council; and •as a Lloyd's syndicate transacting certain types of business in the United States, being required by U.S. regulators to increase the level of funding required as minimum deposits for the protection of U.S. policyholders and, as a consequence, being required to make cash calls to meet claims payments and deposit funding obligations.ITEM 1B