, “Risk Factors,” for a discussion on ratings downgrades. The aggregate credit rating is determined based on the weighted average rating of securities, where the average credit rating, where available, from Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”), Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) is allocated to each security. The weighted average credit rating of the aggregate fixed income portfolio was Aa3/AA- as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. U.S. agencies and Agency RMBS paper, whether with implicit or explicit government support, reflect the credit quality rating of the U.S. government for the purpose of these calculations.We did not have an aggregate direct investment in a single corporate issuer in excess of 5% of our shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2014 or 2013. Corporate issuers represent our direct exposure to fixed maturities and short-term investments 16of the parent issuer and its subsidiaries. These exposures exclude asset and mortgage-backed securities that were issued, sponsored or serviced by the parent and government-guaranteed issues, but do include covered bonds. Covered bonds that are included are senior secured debt instruments issued by financial institutions and backed by over-collateralized pools of public sector or mortgage loans ("Covered Bonds").The overall duration and currency denomination of the aggregate fixed income portfolio is managed relative to their respective benchmark for the investment portfolio, which incorporates matching currency, and duration within a range, relative to liabilities. Duration is an indicator of the sensitivity of the price of a bond (or a portfolio of bonds) to changes in interest rates, reflecting the percentage change in price for a 100 basis point change in all global yield curves. Management believes that the duration of the aggregate fixed income portfolio is the best single measure of interest rate risk for the aggregate fixed income portfolio.The maturity profile of the aggregate fixed income portfolio is a function of the maturity profile of estimated loss payments from our liabilities, our capital and expected operating cash flows and, to a lesser extent, the maturity profile of common fixed income benchmarks. For further information on the maturity profile of the fixed income portfolio, see Item 8, Note 6, “Investments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.Enterprise Risk ManagementRisk Management FrameworkWe face strategic and operational risks related to, among others: underwriting activities, financial reporting, changing macroeconomic conditions, investment risks, reserving estimates, changes in laws or regulations, information systems, business interruption and fraud. Our global P&C business, Run-Off Life Operations and investment portfolios each have their own set of risks (see , “Risk Factors,” Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk,” and Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”RegulationOur operating subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision in each of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and licensed to conduct business. Generally, regulatory authorities can have broad supervisory and administrative powers over such matters as licenses, fitness of management, standards of solvency, governance, risk management, material transactions between affiliates, premium rates, policy forms, investments, security deposits, methods of accounting, form and content of financial statements, reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, claims handling, reinsurance, minimum capital and surplus requirements and/or risk based capital standards, dividends and other distributions to shareholders, periodic examinations and annual and other report filings or notifications. See Item 8, Note 25, “Statutory Financial Data,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein. In general, such regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than shareholders. We cannot predict the potential effect that any new regulations would have on our operating subsidiaries or on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. See , "Risk Factors - Government and regulatory actions may impact the marketplace generally or us in particular."As an Irish public company, XL-Ireland is subject to reporting requirements and certain restrictions under Irish company law. See “Management’s Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition—Holding Company Liquidity” and Item 8, Note 25, “Statutory Financial Data,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein.A summary of certain regulatory requirements in key jurisdictions in which we operate follows.IrelandOur Irish regulated operating subsidiary, XL Re Europe SE, is subject to the regulatory framework established by the CBI. It is required to, among other matters:•maintain an adequate solvency margin and guarantee fund;•submit quarterly and annual regulatory returns as well as ad hoc reporting of certain material transactions; and•obtain regulatory pre-approval of certain transactions, such as payment of dividends or acquisitions and disposals of the ownership/voting rights of (re)insurance companies.The CBI has minimum competency and fitness and probity requirements that seek to ensure that regulated entities are run, in its view, by those with appropriate professional qualifications or experience, with regulatory pre-approval required for certain key roles. The CBI’s code of corporate governance includes prescriptive rules regarding board role and composition, the establishment and operation of board sub-committees and the approval of risk appetites and the monitoring and reporting of risks. In addition, the CBI has broad supervisory and administrative powers over capital and surplus requirements and the declaration, and payment, of dividends or other distributions. Our Irish operating subsidiary is required to seek prior approval from the CBI to reduce its share capital or to pay dividends.21United KingdomOur U.K. regulated operating subsidiaries are regulated by the PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”). The PRA has primary objectives to promote the safety and soundness of the firms it regulates and to ensure that policyholders are appropriately protected, and a secondary objective to promote effective competition in the financial service markets. The FCA aims to ensure that the financial services markets function well with three operational objectives, namely, to secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers, to protect and enhance the integrity of the U.K. financial system and to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers. The PRA’s Handbook of Rules and Guidance covers all aspects of regulation including capital adequacy, financial and non-financial reporting, payment of dividends and certain other activities of U.K. regulated firms. The PRA and FCA’s Approved Persons regime also subjects certain of our employees and directors to PRA and FCA regulation regarding their “fitness”. Our Lloyd’s managing agency, its managed syndicate and its associated corporate capital vehicle are also subject to Lloyd’s requirements applicable to operating in the Lloyd's market. Other European UnionOur network of offices in the European Union consists mainly of branches of Irish, U.K. and Bermuda companies and these offices are principally regulated under applicable legislation or directives from their home jurisdictions.BermudaThe Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda and related rules and regulations, as amended (the “Bermuda Act”), regulates our Bermuda (re)insurance operating subsidiaries, which must be registered as (re)insurers by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (the “BMA”). The Bermuda Act imposes on Bermuda (re)insurance companies, solvency and liquidity standards, certain restrictions on the declaration and payment of dividends and distributions, certain restrictions on the reduction of statutory capital, and auditing and reporting requirements, and grants the BMA powers to supervise and, in certain circumstances, to investigate and intervene in the affairs of (re)insurance companies.Certain of our Bermuda regulated (re)insurance companies are required to file annual audited financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting policies generally accepted in the U.S. ("GAAP") or International Financial Reporting Standards, as well as annual statutory financial returns, annual capital and solvency returns and quarterly financial returns.Bermuda regulated general business (re)insurers are required to maintain available statutory capital and surplus at a level equal to or in excess of their enhanced capital requirement (“ECR”). The applicable ECR is established by reference to either the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement (“BSCR”), which employs a standard mathematical model that can relate more accurately the risks taken on by (re)insurers to the capital that is dedicated to their business, or a BMA-approved internal capital model. The BMA has also established a target capital level (“TCL”) for each (re)insurer equal to 120% of its ECR. While (re)insurers are not required to maintain their statutory capital and surplus at this level, the TCL acts as an early warning tool for the BMA and failure to maintain statutory capital at least equal to TCL will likely result in increased BMA regulatory oversight. Our Bermuda regulated (re)insurers use the BSCR model to calculate their solvency requirements. The implementation of the ECR for Bermuda regulated long-term (re)insurers sets the applicable ECR for XL Re Ltd for the financial year ending 2014 at 75% of the amount determined by the BSCR or an approved internal capital model. Under the Bermuda Companies Act 1981, as amended, a Bermuda company may not declare or pay a dividend or make a distribution out of contributed surplus if there are reasonable grounds for believing that: (a) the company is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due; or (b) the realizable value of the company’s assets would thereby be less than its liabilities. Under the Bermuda Act, a Class 4 (re)insurer is prohibited from declaring or paying any dividends of more than 25% of its total statutory capital and surplus unless it certifies to the BMA that it will continue to meet its minimum solvency margin and minimum liquidity ratio. In addition, neither Class 4 (re)insurers (which includes XLIB and XL Re Ltd) nor certain long-term (re)insurers may reduce their total statutory capital by 15% or more unless they have received the prior approval from the BMA. See Item 8, Note 25, "Statutory Financial Data," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein, for further information.The BMA introduced amendments to the Bermuda Act to create a new class of special purpose insurer (“SPI”) specifically to write sophisticated, fully-funded insurance and reinsurance transactions. SPI's are required to file with the BMA annual statutory financial statements but are not required to file an annual loss reserve specialist opinion. The BMA has the discretion to modify such SPI’s accounting requirements under the Bermuda Act. Bermuda (re)insurers are required to comply with the BMA's Insurance Code of Conduct which establishes duties, requirements and standards to be complied with to ensure each (re)insurer implements sound corporate governance, risk management and internal controls. Non-compliance with the BMA’s Insurance Code of Conduct could result in intervention by the BMA. 22Two of our Bermuda entities are approved for reduced collateral within New York and Florida, respectively. XLIB is qualified for reduced collateral in the state of New York. XL Re Ltd is qualified for reduced collateral in the state of New York as well as the state of Florida. This annual certification permits these two Bermuda subsidiaries to post reduced collateral allowing U.S. ceding companies to take credit for reinsurance on their financial statements.See also "Solvency II Equivalence" regarding the equivalence assessment of the Bermuda supervisory regime under Solvency II.United StatesIn the United States, we are subject to extensive regulation in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. The state legislatures and/or state (re)insurance regulators consider or enact laws or regulations that may alter or increase the regulation of (re)insurance companies and (re)insurance holding companies. State laws and regulations that are adopted or amended may be more restrictive than current laws and regulations and may affect our operations and financial condition and could adversely affect our results of operations through lower revenue and/or higher costs of compliance and limit our growth. For example, regulators may choose to restrict the ability of subsidiaries to make payments to their parent companies, reject rate increases or increase the statutory capital requirements of our operating subsidiaries.There are a number of proposals to amend state insurance laws and regulations in ways that could affect our insurance operating subsidiaries. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has recently adopted or amended model laws on holding company regulation that would provide for supervision of insurers at the corporate group level. Although such changes are only beginning to be considered or adopted by individual state regulators, it can be expected that most state regulators will ultimately adopt them in some form. The various proposals to implement group supervision include uniform standards for insurer corporate governance, group-wide supervision of insurance holding companies, adjustments to risk-based capital calculations to account for group-wide risks and additional regulatory and disclosure requirements for insurance holding companies.Additionally, the NAIC has undertaken the Solvency Modernization Initiative (“SMI”), which focuses on a review of insurance solvency regulations throughout the U.S. financial regulatory system and will lead to a set of long-term solvency modernization goals. SMI is broad in scope, but the NAIC has stated that its focus will include the U.S. solvency framework, group solvency issues, capital requirements, international accounting and regulatory standards, reinsurance and group regulatory issues.Currently, our U.S. regulated operating subsidiaries are required to file detailed annual and, in most states, quarterly reports with state insurance regulators in each of the states in which they are licensed or accredited. In addition, these subsidiaries’ operations and accounts are subject to financial condition and market conduct examination at regular intervals by state regulators. The most recent financial condition examination for our seven U.S. property/casualty insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries was completed in June of 2012 and covered the five-year period ended December 31, 2010. The reports issued by the three states of domicile at the time of the examination (New York, Delaware and North Dakota) concluded that all findings from the prior examination had been effectively addressed, and no new findings were reported. Effective July 1, 2013, Indian Harbor Insurance Company, an eligible surplus lines insurer, was re-domiciled from North Dakota to Delaware. XL Life Insurance and Annuity Company, an Illinois-domiciled life insurer, recently underwent a financial conduct examination for the five-year period ended December 31, 2012.  No issues were identified in the report issued by the Illinois Department of Insurance in August of 2014.Our U.S. regulated operating subsidiaries are subject to various state statutory and regulatory restrictions that limit the amount of dividends that may be paid from earned surplus without prior approval from regulatory authorities. These restrictions differ by state, but are generally based on a calculation of the lesser of 10% of statutory surplus or 100% of “adjusted net investment income” to the extent that it has not previously been distributed.While the U.S. federal government currently does not directly regulate the insurance business in the U.S. (other than for flood and nuclear insurance and reinsurance of losses from terrorism), federal legislation and administrative policies can affect the insurance industry. For example, the future availability of any federal backstop program for qualifying terrorism losses, currently the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2015, or modifications of the terms and conditions of such program may affect the insurance industry's ability and capacity to offer terrorism coverage in the United States. Additionally, in July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) was passed into law. Dodd-Frank requires the creation of a Federal Insurance Office ("FIO") within the Treasury Department that is focused on national coordination of the insurance sector, systemic risk mitigation and international regulatory cooperation. Although the FIO currently does not directly regulate the insurance industry, under Dodd-Frank it has the power to preempt state insurance regulations that are inconsistent with international agreements regarding insurance regulation, subject to certain exceptions. On December 14, 2013, the FIO submitted a report to Congress as required under Dodd-Frank on improving U.S. insurance regulation. The report raises concerns about states' regulation of multi-state insurers and proposes that insurers need to be 23supervised on a consolidated basis at the federal level, which would improve uniformity, efficiency and consistency, and would result in uniform supervision of insurance firms with national and global activities. As the FIO does not have regulatory authority, the recommendations in its report could be viewed as advisory in nature. Most suggestions for U.S. federal standards and involvement in insurance regulation would require U.S. Congressional action. Whether the recommendations will be implemented, altered considerably, or delayed for an extended period is uncertain. In December 2014, the FIO issued a report entitled The Breadth And Scope Of The Global Reinsurance Market And The Critical Role Such Market Plays In Supporting Insurance In The United States pursuant to a requirement under Dodd-Frank for FIO to issue a report describing the breadth and scope of the global reinsurance market and the role such market plays in supporting insurance in the United States. This report describes the role global reinsurance provides in supporting the insurance industry in the U.S. and states that the global reinsurance market provides access to the financial strength of reinsurers and to alternative risk transfer capital, thereby assisting insurers in preparing for and responding to catastrophes and natural disasters. In addition, reinsurers are found to assist insurers in stabilizing underwriting experience, increasing underwriting capacity, and facilitating entrance to and exit from markets, thereby helping insurers maintain product pricing that is more available and affordable, which benefits the U.S. economy as a whole. The report states that many global reinsurers and other capital market industry participants operate in the reinsurance market, demonstrating a high degree of substitutability and mobility of risk transfer capital. The report notes that, in light of the importance of the global reinsurance market to U.S. insurers, the Treasury Department and the United States Trade Representative are considering a covered agreement with respect to collateral requirements for reinsurers. A covered agreement would also require U.S. Congressional action. Whether a covered agreement will be implemented or delayed for an extended period of time is uncertain.Other International OperationsWe have a number of regulated operating subsidiaries outside of the European Union, Bermuda and the United States. The degree of regulation in foreign jurisdictions can vary and licenses issued by foreign authorities are subject to modification or revocation for cause by such authorities. Our subsidiaries could be prevented, for cause, from conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate or from writing business emanating from certain jurisdictions. While many countries impose licensing, solvency, auditing and financial reporting requirements, the type and extent of the requirements differ substantially. Key areas where country regulations may differ include: (i) the type of financial reports to be filed; (ii) a requirement to use local intermediaries; (iii) the amount of reinsurance permissible; (iv) the scope of any regulation of policy forms and rates; and (v) the type and frequency of regulatory examinations.In addition to these requirements, our foreign operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of local investment and limitations on the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on participating policies. A summary of certain regulatory requirements in Switzerland, Latin America and China follows.SwitzerlandSupervision of our Swiss regulated operating subsidiaries and branches is carried out by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (“FINMA”). The supervisory regime currently comprises both Solvency I requirements and Solvency II type requirements (“Swiss Solvency Test”), the latter of which impose higher capital requirements. Furthermore, direct insurers and insurance branches of foreign legal entities operating in Switzerland have to comply with “tied assets” requirements. Reinsurance branches of foreign pure reinsurance companies are exempt from supervision by FINMA and are supervised by the country in which they are domiciled.In September 2012, FINMA and EIOPA signed a Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) regarding cooperation in supervision, in particular for insurance groups with international activities in the European Economic Area (the "EEA") and Switzerland. The MoU creates a formal basis for cooperation in the following areas: group supervision, assistance in the work of EEA and FINMA colleges of supervisors, action required in emergency situations, safeguarding financial stability by monitoring and assessing risks, interconnectedness and conducting stress tests. This MoU will not modify or supersede any laws or regulatory requirements in force and will not affect any arrangements under the MoU that have previously been signed between FINMA and other national supervisory authorities of the EEA. See also "Solvency II Equivalence" regarding the equivalence assessment of the Swiss supervisory regime under Solvency II.24Latin AmericaWe have both insurance and reinsurance operations in the Latin American region, with local companies writing business in Brazil and Mexico and representative offices in Argentina and Colombia. Other than the Colombia representative office and a services branch in Mexico, all the legal entities in the region are subsidiaries. In regions other than Brazil and Mexico, we act as a foreign reinsurer. Nearly all regulators in the Latin America region require foreign reinsurers to be registered or licensed for local cedants to place business with them.The extent of regulation in the region varies significantly in the countries in which we conduct business. Typically, each country has regulations relating to solvency, auditing, internal controls and financial reporting, but the type and extent of the requirements differs substantially. Other regulations in the region that impact our operations but are not specific to insurance or reinsurance include those relating to foreign currency exchange control, data protection legislation, anti-money laundering and other financial crimes and sanctions.ChinaOur Chinese regulated operating subsidiary is regulated by the China Insurance Regulatory Commission (the “CIRC”) under the People’s Republic of China Insurance Law. CIRC’s regulatory regime includes requirements relating to licensing, capital, solvency, reserves, reinsurance, transactions between affiliates, approval and filing of policy wordings and rates, corporate governance, disclosure and periodic reporting. To carry on (re)insurance business in a foreign currency, the subsidiary is also subject to licensing and foreign currency exchange control by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. Solvency II EquivalenceThe supervisory regimes governing our operating subsidiaries domiciled in each of Bermuda and Switzerland were considered in EIOPA's December 2014 third country equivalence assessments under Solvency II. EIOPA has provisionally advised that both Switzerland and Bermuda meet the criteria set out in EIOPA's methodology, with certain caveats, for equivalence assessments for the following three categories: (i) reinsurance supervision, (ii) third country group supervision, and (iii) calculating group solvency. The European Commission (“Commission”), having considered the advice of EIOPA, is required to submit to the European Parliament and Council a recommendation whether each of Bermuda and Switzerland meets or does not meet the criteria for equivalence assessment in each of the above three categories. With regard to each category, the Commission may recommend that Switzerland and Bermuda should be assessed to have achieved full equivalence or temporary equivalence.   The Commission recommendations on full and temporary equivalence (and another category for "provisional equivalence" for countries such as the United States-see below) are expected to be presented in Spring and Autumn on a category by category basis. The European Parliament and Council each have six months from receipt of the European Commission’s recommendation to confirm or reject such findings.In the event that Bermuda or Switzerland do not obtain full equivalence with respect to all three categories above, we would expect the following to apply but there can be no assurance that this will be the outcome:•a temporary equivalence finding with respect to reinsurance supervision would allow for the same benefits as full equivalence until December 2020, with a possibility of one additional year; •a temporary equivalence finding with respect to group supervision would allow for the same benefits as full equivalence until December 2020, with a possibility of one additional year; and•a provisional equivalence finding with respect to calculating group solvency (a finding of temporary equivalence is not available for this category)  would allow the same benefits as full equivalence for ten years, potentially renewable for an additional ten year period.See Item 1A, "Risk Factors - The regulatory regimes under which we operate, and potential change thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business", for risks to our business, including in the event that either Bermuda's or Switzerland's supervisory regime is not considered equivalent to the Solvency II regime.The United States is currently expected to receive a provisional equivalence recommendation from the Commission although there is no assurance of this outcome. This finding would allow some companies, not including us currently, to benefit from U.S. local solvency calculations in their group calculations for a ten year period as provided above. This designation is for group solvency calculations only and excludes reinsurance and group supervision. 25EmployeesAt December 31, 2014, we had 4,663 employees. At that date, 314 of our employees were represented by workers’ councils and 403 of our employees were subject to industry-wide collective bargaining agreements in several countries outside the United States.Available InformationThe public can read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public can obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of the SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov.Our website address is http://www.xlgroup.com. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other of our documents filed with or furnished to the SEC.We make available free of charge, including through our website, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Upon written or oral request, we will promptly deliver, without charge, to any shareholder a copy of the Annual Report on Form 10-K. Requests for copies should be submitted to the Company Secretary at XL Group, 100 Washington Blvd., 6th Floor, Stamford, CT 06902, United States of America or (203) 964-5500.We have adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, written charters for each of the Audit Committee, the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Nominating, Governance and External Affairs Committee and the Risk and Finance Committee, as well as a Code of Conduct and a related Compliance Program. Each of these documents is posted on our website at http://www.xlgroup.com, and each is available in print to any shareholder who requests it by writing to us at Investor Relations Department, XL Group plc, 100 Washington Blvd., 6th Floor, Stamford, CT 06902, United States of America.We intend to post on our website any amendment to, or waiver of, a provision of our Code of Conduct that applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Controller or persons performing similar functions and that relates to any element of the code of ethics definition set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.We intend to use our website as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on the website in the “Investor Relations” section. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts.26ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSAny of the following risk factors could have a significant or material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity, in addition to the other information contained in this report. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations.The occurrence of disasters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cashflows and prospects.We have substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural and man-made disasters and other catastrophic events.  Both our underwriting limits for (re)insurance policies covering such losses and our exposure to such losses are expected to significantly increase following the Acquisition. Catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, hailstorms, explosions, severe weather, tsunamis, fires, war and acts of terrorism. Changing climate conditions may add to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters in certain parts of the world and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable, and it is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or to estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate.The occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in substantial volatility in our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for the fiscal quarter or year in which a catastrophic event occurs, as well as subsequent fiscal periods, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to write new business. This risk is exacerbated due to accounting principles and rules that do not permit (re)insurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they occur. We expect that future possible increases in the values and concentrations of insured property, the effects of inflation and changes in cyclical weather patterns may increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future. Although we attempt to manage our exposure to catastrophic events, a single catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones and lines of business and the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our estimates, in each case potentially having a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, while we may, depending on market conditions, purchase catastrophe reinsurance and retrocessional protection, the occurrence of one or more major catastrophes in any given period could result in losses that exceed such reinsurance and retrocessional protection. This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and may result in substantial liquidation of investments, possibly at a loss, and outflows of cash as losses are paid.The failure of any of the underwriting risk management strategies that we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity.We seek to limit our loss exposure by, among other things, writing a number of our reinsurance or retrocession contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for each client and prudently underwriting each program written. In addition, in the case of proportional treaties, we generally seek to use per occurrence limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one event. We cannot be sure that all of these loss limitation methods will have the precise risk management impact intended. For instance, although we also seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification, geographic zone limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including the determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy within a particular zone’s limits. Underwriting involves the exercise of considerable judgment and the making of important assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. The failure of any of the underwriting risk management strategies that we employ could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, we cannot provide assurance that various provisions of our policies, such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, will be enforceable in the manner that we intend and disputes relating to coverage and choice of legal forum may arise, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.The insurance and reinsurance industries are historically cyclical and we may experience periods with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates.The insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical, characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often followed by an increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Either of these factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable policy terms and conditions and fewer submissions for our underwriting services. In addition to these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance industries significantly.27A downgrade or potential downgrade in our financial strength and credit ratings by one or more rating agencies could materially and negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.As our ability to underwrite business is dependent upon the quality of our claims paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by independent rating agencies, a downgrade by any of these institutions could cause our competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry to suffer and make it more difficult for us to market our products.A downgrade below “A-” of our principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries by either S&P or A.M. Best Company (“A.M. Best”), which is three notches below the current S&P financial strength rating of “A+” (Stable) and two notches below the A.M. Best financial strength rating of “A” (Stable), may trigger termination provisions in a significant amount of our assumed reinsurance and retrocessional agreements and may potentially require us to return unearned premium to cedants or post additional collateral. In addition, a material reduction in our shareholders’ equity may trigger termination provisions or require us to post additional collateral in a majority of our assumed reinsurance agreements. While the amount of reduction necessary to trigger such termination provisions varies from agreement to agreement, such provisions are generally triggered by a reduction in the range of 20 to 50 percent. Whether a client would exercise its termination rights after such a downgrade or decline in shareholders' equity would likely depend on, among other things, the reasons for the downgrade or decline, the extent of the downgrade or decline, prevailing market conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage, and the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage. Based on premium value, approximately 67% of our in force reinsurance contracts at January 1, 2015 contained provisions allowing clients to terminate those contracts upon a decline in our ratings to below “A-.” In the event of such a downgrade, we cannot predict whether or how many of our clients would actually exercise such termination rights or the extent to which any such terminations would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or future prospects or the market price for our securities. A downgrade could also result in both a substantial loss of business for us, as ceding companies and brokers that place such business may move to other insurers and reinsurers with higher ratings, and the loss of key employees. In addition, due to collateral posting requirements under our letter of credit and revolving credit facility agreements, such a downgrade may require the posting of cash collateral in support of certain “in use” portions of these facilities (see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” included herein). Specifically, a downgrade below “A-” by A.M. Best would constitute an event of default under the Company’s two largest credit facilities and may trigger such collateral requirements. In certain limited instances, such downgrades may require us to return cash or assets to counterparties or to settle derivative and/or other transactions with the respective counterparties.In addition to the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries, various rating agencies also publish credit ratings for XL-Cayman. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer’s ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner, are part of our overall funding profile and affect our ability to access certain types of liquidity. Downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and cash flows in a number of ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt or requiring us to post collateral.The sovereign debt crisis in Europe and concerns regarding the instability of Euro-zone countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Global markets and economic conditions have in the past been negatively impacted by the uncertainty relating to the level of sovereign debt of various E.U. member states, the ability of those countries to service their sovereign debt obligations and the stability of financial institutions operating within those E.U. member states. This uncertainty has resulted and could in the future result in volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of E.U. member states and on other European-related corporate debt held within our investment portfolio and could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the E.U. and throughout the world. In addition, downgrades of sovereign debt could bring down the average credit rating quality of our investment portfolio.The interdependencies among European economies and financial institutions and between such European economies and financial institutions and those of the rest of the world have also exacerbated concern regarding the stability of European financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. One or more Euro-zone countries could come under increasing pressure to leave the European Monetary Union or the European Union, or the Euro as the single currency of the Euro-zone could cease to exist if the European Monetary Union were dissolved. These or other actions could ultimately result in the European Union ceasing to exist. Any of these developments, or the perception that any of these developments are likely to occur, could lead to severe economic recession or depression. If one or more significant countries abandon the Euro or the European Monetary Union dissolves, it may result in uncertainty with respect to the terms, value or enforceability of certain bonds, instruments or contracts, which could result in a material loss to us. Similarly, if a country leaving the Euro-zone imposes currency controls, such controls may have a material adverse impact on the value of and our ability to withdraw funds from that country.28Given the extent of our European operations, including that XL-Ireland has its registered office in Ireland, and our European investment holdings, clients and counterparties, persistent volatility in the European financial markets, or the failure of any significant European financial institution arising from the wider implications of a crisis, even if not an immediate counterparty to us, could have a material adverse impact on our business, investment portfolio, liquidity or financial performance. A future Euro-zone sovereign debt crisis could lead to political uncertainty, material changes to tax policies of Euro-zone countries, financial turmoil and social unrest, which could affect the successful implementation of stability measures. Sovereigns, financial institutions and companies may become subject to liquidity shortages and be unable to obtain refinancings or new fundings, leading to an increased risk of a default on their existing debt, and measures to reduce debt levels and fiscal deficits could result in a further slowdown of or negative economic growth.For a discussion of the risks to our business during or following a financial market disruption and risks to our investment portfolio, see the risk factor entitled “We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates as well as other investment risks, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.” For a discussion of risks associated with the United States’ credit rating, see the risk factor entitled “Downgrading of the United States’ credit rating could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”Our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets may not be successful and may create enhanced risks.Our business initiatives involve developing new products or expanding existing products in targeted markets. This includes the following efforts, from time to time, to protect or profitably grow market share:▪We may develop products that insure risks we have not previously insured or contain new coverage or coverage terms.▪We may refine our underwriting processes.▪We may seek to expand distribution channels.▪We may focus on geographic markets within or outside of the United States where we have had relatively little or no market share or operating history.▪We may engage in insurance-linked securities and other reinsurance capital markets transactions, either alone or with third party investors. We may not be successful in introducing new products or expanding in targeted markets and, even if we are successful, these efforts may create enhanced risks. Among other risks:▪Demand for new products or in new markets may not meet our expectations.▪To the extent we are able to market new products or expand into new markets, our risk exposures may change, and the data and models we use to manage such exposures may not be as sophisticated as those we use in existing markets or with existing products. This, in turn, could lead to losses in excess of our expectations.▪Efforts to develop new products or markets have the potential to create or increase distribution channel conflict.▪In connection with the addition of new products to existing coverages or the conversion of existing policyholders to a new product, some policyholders' pricing may increase, while the pricing for other policyholders may decrease, the net impact of which could negatively impact retention and margins.▪To develop new products or markets, we may encounter unanticipated operational issues or unanticipated coverage risks, or we may need to make substantial capital and operating expenditures, which may also negatively impact results.If our efforts to develop new products or expand in targeted markets are not successful, our results could be materially and adversely affected.We are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates as well as other investment risks, which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.Our operating results are affected by the performance of our investment portfolio. Our assets are invested by a number of investment management service providers under the direction of the Company’s management within the Investment Group in accordance, in general, with detailed investment guidelines set by us under the oversight of the RFC, and established in accordance with our SAA framework for our investment portfolio. Although our investment policies stress diversification of 29risks and conservation of principal and liquidity, our investments are subject to market-wide risks, as noted below, and fluctuations, as well as to risks inherent in particular securities. We are exposed to significant capital markets risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads and defaults, market liquidity, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. Our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected by realized losses, impairments and changes in unrealized positions as a result of significant continued market volatility, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, a lack of pricing transparency, a reduction in market liquidity, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar. Levels of write-down or impairment are impacted by our assessment of the intent to sell securities that have declined in value as well as actual losses as a result of defaults or deterioration in estimates of cash flows. We periodically review our investment portfolio structure and strategy. If, as a result of such review, we determine to reposition or realign portions of the investment portfolio and sell securities in an unrealized loss position, we will incur an other than temporary impairment charge. Any such charge may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business.For the year ended December 31, 2014, we incurred net realized and unrealized investment gains and losses, as described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” included herein. We continue to closely monitor current market conditions and evaluate the long term impact of the market on all of our investment holdings. Depending on market conditions, we could incur additional realized and unrealized losses in future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and business.Our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability of fixed income instruments that are associated with changes in interest rates. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which have been and may continue to be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from central bank monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, which would be offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested over time. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our investment portfolio, which would be offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. We maintain an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is determined in accordance with its SAA Benchmark based on a dynamic financial analysis of investment assets and liabilities, and that is intended to maximize the Company’s enterprise value subject to accounting, regulatory, capital and risk tolerances. The portion of the portfolio supporting our Run-Off Life Operations - not subject to Life Retro Arrangements is rebalanced regularly to reflect an explicit asset-liability management process. However, our estimates of the time and size of our estimated loss payment profile may be inaccurate and despite stochastic investment portfolio modeling, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover liabilities. In sum, we are economically exposed to interest rate risk on our capital and to the extent that our investment portfolio maturities are a poor hedge of actual liability loss payments.Our exposure to credit spread risk relates primarily to the market price associated with changes in prevailing market credit spreads and the impact on our holdings of spread products such as corporate and structured and credit-sensitive government-related securities. Approximately 3.0% of our aggregate fixed income portfolio consists of below investment-grade high yield fixed income securities. These securities have a higher degree of credit or default risk and a greater exposure to credit spread risk. Certain sectors within the investment and below investment grade fixed income market, such as structured and corporate credit, may be less liquid in times of economic weakness or market disruptions. Our procedures to monitor the credit risk and liquidity of our invested assets in general and those impacted by recent credit market issues specifically may not protect us during periods of economic weakness or periods of turmoil in capital markets from default losses in both our investment grade and below investment grade corporate and structured holdings. This may result in a material reduction of net income, capital and cash flows.We invest a portion of our investment portfolio in common stock or equity-related securities, including alternative funds, private equity funds and other funds. The value of these assets fluctuates, due to changes in the equity and credit markets along with other factors. In times of economic weakness, the market value and liquidity of these assets may decline, and may negatively impact net income, capital and cash flows. In addition, certain of the products provided by our Run-Off Life Operations offer fixed guaranteed returns while debt and equity yields may continue to decline. In addition, the amount of earnings from alternative funds, private investment funds and other funds are not earned evenly across the year, or even from year to year. As a result, the amount of earnings that we record from these investments may vary substantially from quarter to quarter. The timing of distributions from such private investment funds depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments. The ability of an alternative fund to satisfy any redemption request from its investors depends on the underlying liquidity of the alternative fund’s investments. As a result, earnings, distributions and redemptions from these two asset classes may be more difficult to predict, and, if such funds are unable to satisfy our redemption requests, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows may be adversely impacted. As alternative funds, private investment funds and other funds are collective investment vehicles managed by third parties, we do not control the proceeds once we make our investments, thus subjecting us to a higher level of fraud risk than is the case with our fixed income and equity holdings.30A portion of our investment portfolio is comprised of securities of foreign companies. Investing in foreign companies may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in U.S. companies. These risks include changes in exchange control regulations, political and social instability, expropriation, imposition of foreign taxes, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in the United States, higher transaction costs, less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers, less developed corporate, contract and bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards and greater price volatility. These risks are likely to be more pronounced for investments in companies located in emerging markets. Although the majority of our investments are U.S. dollar denominated, a portion of our investments are denominated in other currencies. In addition, many of our non-U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in currencies different than their functional currency, which exposes us to changes in currency exchange rates. The functional currencies of our principal insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries include the U.S. dollar, U.K. sterling, the Euro, the Swiss franc and the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations of one currency relative to one or more other currencies may materially impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, locally-required capital levels are invested in local currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. Foreign exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process and we utilize derivative instruments such as futures, options and foreign currency forward contracts to, among other things, manage our foreign currency exposure. It is possible that these instruments will not effectively mitigate all or a substantial portion of our foreign exchange rate risk, which could adversely impact the Company’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows.The determination of the amount of other than temporary impairments taken on our investments is based on subjective valuation judgments and could materially impact our financial position and results of operations.Our management periodically reviews and assesses our portfolio to determine if other-than-temporary impairments should be recognized on our investments. This review includes methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subjective and open to different interpretations. The determination of the amount of other-than-temporary impairments recognized varies by investment type and is based on an evaluation of inherent risks associated with each asset class as well as an analysis on a security by security basis. Our evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available.There are risks and uncertainties associated with determining whether declines in the fair value of investments are other-than-temporary. These include, among others, subsequent changes in general economic conditions as well as specific business conditions affecting particular issuers, our liability profile, subjective assessment of issue-specific factors (seniority of claims, collateral value, etc.), future financial market effects, stability of foreign governments and economies, future rating agency actions and significant disclosure of accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect certain investments. During periods of market disruption, it may also be more difficult to value certain securities if trading becomes less frequent or market data less observable.  There may also be certain asset classes that become illiquid due to the financial environment.  In addition, significant assumptions and management judgment are involved in determining if the decline is other-than-temporary. If management determines that a decline in fair value is temporary, then a security’s value is not written down at that time. However, there are potential effects upon our future earnings and financial position should management later conclude that some of the current declines in the fair value of the investments are other-than-temporary declines.Our management may not have assessed the correct amount of impairments to be taken in our financial statements and additional impairments may need to be recognized in the future, which could materially impact our financial position or results of operations.  Historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments.Certain of our investments may be illiquid or are in asset classes that have in times of market stress experienced significant market valuation fluctuations.We hold certain investments that may lack liquidity or for which the availability of prices or inputs may be reduced in periods of market dislocation, such as non-agency residential mortgage-backed and collateralized debt obligations securities. Even some of our high quality assets have been more illiquid during periods of challenging market conditions. Generally, securities classified as Level 3 pursuant to the fair value hierarchy set forth in authoritative accounting guidance over fair value measurements may be less liquid, may be more difficult to value, requiring significant judgment, and may be more likely to result in sales at materially different amounts than the fair values determined by management.If we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with certain of our reinsurance contracts, credit agreements, derivative transactions or our invested portfolio, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both.31The reported values of our relatively illiquid types of investments and, in certain circumstances, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market bid price for the asset. If we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the market, we may not be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices, particularly at times of extreme market illiquidity. Any such sales could adversely impact the Company’s financial position.If actual claims exceed our loss reserves, or if changes in the estimated levels of loss reserves are necessary, our financial results and cash flows could be adversely affected.Our results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and reinsure. We establish reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expense (“LAE”) liabilities, which are estimates of future payments of reported and unreported claims for losses and related expenses with respect to insured events that have occurred. The process of establishing reserves for property and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability, as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. Actuarial estimates of unpaid loss and LAE liabilities are subject to potential errors of estimation, which could be significant, due to the fact that the ultimate disposition of claims incurred prior to the date of such estimation, whether reported or not, is subject to the outcome of events that have not yet occurred. Examples of these events include the accuracy of the factual information on which the estimates were based, especially as estimates develop, jury decisions, court interpretations, legislative changes, changes in the medical condition of claimants, public attitudes, and economic conditions such as inflation.Inflation in relation to medical costs, construction costs and tort issues in particular impact the property and casualty industry. However, broader market inflation also poses a risk of increasing overall loss costs. The impact of inflation on loss costs could be more pronounced for those lines of business that are considered “long tail” such as general liability, worker's compensation and professional liability, as they require a relatively long period of time to finalize and settle claims for a given accident year. Changes in the level of inflation could also result in an increased level of uncertainty in our estimation of loss reserves, particularly for long tail lines of business. The estimation of loss reserves may also be more difficult during times of adverse economic conditions due to unexpected changes in behavior of claimants and policyholders, including an increase in fraudulent reporting of exposures and/or losses, reduced maintenance of insured properties or increased frequency of small claims.Similarly, the actual emergence of claims for life business may vary from the assumptions underlying the policy benefit reserves.We have an actuarial staff in each of our operating segments and a Chief Actuary who regularly evaluates the levels of loss reserves, taking into consideration factors that may impact the ultimate losses incurred. Any such evaluation could result in future changes in estimates of losses or reinsurance recoverable and would be reflected in our results of operations in the period in which the estimates are changed. Losses and LAE, to the extent that they exceed the applicable reserves, are charged to income as incurred. The reserve for unpaid losses and LAE represents the estimated ultimate losses and LAE less paid losses and LAE, and comprises case reserves and IBNR. During the loss settlement period, which can span many years in duration for casualty business, additional facts regarding individual claims and trends often will become known and case reserves may be adjusted by allocation from IBNR without any change in the overall reserve. In addition, application of statistical and actuarial methods may require the adjustment of the overall reserves upward or downward from time to time. Accordingly, the ultimate settlement of losses may be significantly greater than or less than reported loss and loss expense reserves.The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.Changes to industry practices of legal, judicial, social, political, legislative or other environmental conditions or disruptions that affect businesses' continuity and interdependencies (including supply chain dependencies) could cause unexpected issues related to claim and coverage as well as additional forms of loss experience to emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either expanding coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims, such as the effects that disruptions in the credit markets could have on the number and size of reported claims under directors and officers liability insurance (“D&O”) and professional liability insurance lines of business. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued the insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. Historically such claims and coverage issues have occurred at heightened levels during periods of very soft market conditions, which often reflect an inflection point in the typical cycle of insurance industry market conditions. In addition, our actual losses may vary materially from our current loss estimates based on a number of factors, including receipt of additional information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of losses to coverages that had not previously been considered as exposed and inflation in repair costs due to additional demand for labor and materials. As a result, the full extent of liability under an insurance or reinsurance contract may not be known for many years after such contract is issued and a loss occurs.32Governmental and regulatory actions may impact the marketplace generally or us in particular.In response to the financial crises that affected the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to financial institutions, there were numerous regulatory and governmental actions in the United States, the U.K. and the Euro-zone, among other countries. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions was to stabilize the U.S. and international financial markets, improve the flow of credit, increase employment levels and foster an economic recovery.Under Dodd-Frank, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) has issued rules establishing the process and criteria by which companies may be designated as nonbank systemically important financial institutions (“SIFIs”) subject to the examination, enforcement and supervisory authority of the FSOC. Similarly, the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”), consisting of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 nations, has issued a series of frameworks and recommendations intended to produce significant changes in how financial companies, particularly global systemically important financial institutions (“G-SIFIs”), should be regulated. These frameworks and recommendations address issues such as financial group supervision, basic capital requirements and solvency standards, systemic economic risk, corporate governance including compensation, and a host of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis. In addition, the FSB has directed the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) to create standards relative to these areas for global systemically important insurers (“G-SIIs”) and incorporate them within that body’s Insurance Core Principles. IAIS is also in the process of developing a comprehensive, group-wide supervisory and regulatory framework for internationally active insurance groups (“IAIGs”), whether or not they are identified as G-SIIs, which will include a quantitative capital standard. The IAIS itself will not be responsible for identifying IAIGs under this framework. Rather, it will set out the criteria and process that will be used by the supervisory colleges to identify IAIGs. While we do not expect that we will be designated as a SIFI, G-SIFI, or G-SII, certain of our competitors may be so designated, which may impact market behavior and/or access to capital. Following the completion of the proposed acquisition of Catlin, we believe that we would meet the criteria to be designated as an IAIG. If designated as an IAIG by the IAIS supervisory college, we may become subject to a proposed international capital standard and enhanced regulatory supervision.In connection with the Life Retro Arrangements, we hold a number of Tier 1 and Upper Tier 2 hybrid securities issued by financial institutions including those based in the U.S., Europe and the U.K as part of the Life Funds Withheld Assets (See Item 8, Note 3, "Sale of Life Reinsurance Subsidiary," and Note 6, "Investments," to the Consolidated Financial Statements included herein). The terms of the Life Retro Arrangements identify certain events that would entitle the ceding companies to exercise their recapture remedy and the terms upon which such a recapture would occur, in which event such hybrid securities could become part of our investment portfolio assets. There is a risk that, if the capital positions of financial institutions deteriorate further government intervention, particularly nationalization of such institutions, could occur. There is also a risk of regulatory imposed deferral of coupons or decisions by bank management not to call the capital or defer the coupon payments. This may result in losses on those securities. There is also the risk of further downgrades of these or other securities as rating agencies re-evaluate their rating methodologies, which would negatively impact the regulatory capital of the Run-Off Life Operations or the valuation of our investment portfolio assets generally.In particular, an extended period of stagnant growth combined with low or negative inflation, a continuation of significant deficits and an ongoing period of stimulative monetary policy could lead to a re-emergence of the sovereign debt crisis concerning European countries, including Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain (the "European Periphery Nations"), and related European financial restructuring efforts, may cause the value of the European currencies, including the Euro, to further deteriorate, which in turn could adversely impact Euro-denominated assets held in our investment portfolio or our European book of business. In addition, a European crisis could contribute to instability in global credit markets, as well as the widening of bond yield spreads. Rating agency downgrades on European sovereign debt and concern about the potential default of government issuers or a possible break-up of the European Union could further contribute to this uncertainty. Should governments default on their obligations, there would be a negative impact on both our direct holdings, as well as on non-government issues and financials held within the country of default. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Balance Sheet Analysis–European Sovereign Debt Crisis” for an analysis of our fixed maturity portfolio’s exposure to European Periphery Nations.Any such governmental actions or future regulatory initiatives may impact certain investment instruments in our investment portfolio, or our competitive position, business or financial position. If global economic and market conditions become uncertain, volatile, or deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We may be unable to purchase reinsurance and, even if we are able to successfully purchase reinsurance, we are subject to the possibility of being unable to collect reinsurance when due.We purchase reinsurance for our own account in order to mitigate the volatility that losses impose on our financial condition. Our clients purchase reinsurance from us to cover part of the risk originally written by them. Retrocessional reinsurance involves a reinsurer ceding to another reinsurer, the retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first 33reinsurer has assumed. Reinsurance, including retrocessional reinsurance, does not legally discharge the ceding company from its liability with respect to its obligations to its insureds or reinsureds. A reinsurer’s or retrocessionaire’s insolvency, inability or refusal to make timely payments under the terms of its agreements with us, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on us because we remain liable to our insureds and reinsureds. For further information regarding our reinsurance exposure, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”From time to time, market conditions may limit or prevent us from obtaining the types and amounts of reinsurance that we consider adequate for our business needs such that we may not be able to obtain reinsurance or retrocessional reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness in amounts that we deem desirable or on terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable.The impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us.We have exposure to counterparties in various industries, including banks, hedge funds and other investment vehicles, and in reinsurance and other transactions, including derivative transactions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event our counterparty fails to perform its obligations. Even if we are entitled to collateral when a counterparty defaults, such collateral may be illiquid or proceeds from such collateral when liquidated may not be sufficient to recover the full amount of the obligation. We also have exposure to financial institutions in the form of secured and unsecured debt instruments and equity securities. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”Since we depend on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by any one of them could adversely affect us.We market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide primarily through insurance and reinsurance brokers. AON Corporation, Marsh & McLennan Companies and the Willis Group and their respective subsidiaries each provided significant portions of our gross written premiums for property and casualty operations. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our reliance on brokers subjects us to credit risk.In certain jurisdictions, when an insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for policies of insurance or contracts of reinsurance to brokers for further payment to us, such premiums might be considered to have been paid and the insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for such amounts, whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. In addition, in accordance with industry practice and contract terms, we generally pay amounts owed on claims under our reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn, pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased reinsurance from us. Although in some jurisdictions the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts and circumstances of the particular case, if a broker fails to make such a claims payment to the insured or ceding insurer, we generally remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for that non-payment. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the brokers with whom we transact business. Due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature of the law governing these types of scenarios and our lack of historical experience with such risks, we are unable to quantify our exposure to this risk.We are subject to a number of risks associated with the global nature of our business.A material portion of our revenues is derived from our clients in Europe, North America and Bermuda. Weak demand or market disruption in these regions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We have also continued to pursue opportunities in other countries, including in developing markets such as Asia, Africa and Latin America. Differing economic conditions and patterns of economic growth and contraction in the regions in which we operate could make it more difficult to forecast accurately product demand and effectively develop business, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In conducting business in developing markets we are subject to a number of significant risks. These risks include restrictions such as price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, ownership limits and other restrictive governmental actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. The occurrence of one or more of these or other risks in one country may affect our operations in another country or countries. In addition, some countries, particularly developing economies, have laws and regulations that lack clarity and, even with local expertise and effective controls, it can be difficult to determine the exact requirements of the local laws. Other risks are less developed forms of government supervision, regulation and legal process including less developed corporate, contract and bankruptcy laws, difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations, and the lack of uniform accounting and auditing standards. Failure to comply with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally.Other risks involved with conducting business in developing markets include political and social instability, political violence, strikes, riots, kidnap and ransom, civil unrest, expropriation and terrorism as well as greater price volatility of 34investment positions, less liquid markets and less available information than is generally the case in developed markets. In addition, competition for skilled employees in developing markets may be intense. These risks may lead to higher than anticipated transaction costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Downgrading of the United States’ credit rating could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.S&P lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States from “AAA” to “AA+” in August 2011. In addition, both Fitch and Moody’s have warned that they may downgrade the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating if future budget negotiations to raise the debt ceiling fail, or if steps are not taken to decrease the U.S.’s debt load. Because of the unprecedented nature of negative credit rating actions with respect to U.S. government obligations, the impact of a further downgrade to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating or any other further rating actions by any rating agency is inherently unpredictable. Such actions could have material adverse impacts on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and throughout the world. In turn, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including with respect to assets in our investment portfolio, as well as assets in trusts or other collateral arrangements posted by or to us. In addition, further downgrades of the United States’ credit rating could create broader financial turmoil and uncertainty, and could negatively impact the average credit rating quality of our investment portfolio, which could require us to change our minimum average credit quality target.Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends, make payments on our debt securities and make other payments.Our ability to pay dividends or return capital from shareholders’ equity is limited by applicable laws and regulations of the various jurisdictions in which our principal operating subsidiaries operate, certain additional required regulatory approvals and financial covenants contained in our letters of credit and revolving credit facilities.As holding companies, XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman have no operations of their own and their assets consist primarily of investments in subsidiaries. Accordingly, XL-Ireland and XL-Cayman rely on the availability of dividends and other permissible payments from subsidiaries to make principal and interest payments on debt, to pay operating expenses and XL-Ireland ordinary and XL-Cayman preferred shareholder dividends, to make capital investments in subsidiaries and to pay other obligations that may arise from time to time. The payment of dividends by our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries is regulated under the laws of various countries, including Bermuda, the U.K., Ireland, Switzerland and in the other countries where we have regulated subsidiaries, by certain insurance statutes of various states in the United States in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business and by the Society of Lloyd’s. For further information regarding regulatory restrictions governing the payment of dividends by the Company’s significant property and casualty subsidiaries in Ireland, the U.K., Bermuda and the U.S., see Item 8, Note 25, “Statutory Financial Data,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and Item 1, “Business – Regulation.”XL-Ireland is subject to certain legal constraints that affect its ability to pay dividends on or redeem or buyback our ordinary shares. While XL-Ireland’s Articles of Association authorize the XL-Ireland Board to declare and pay dividends as justified from the profits, under Irish law, XL-Ireland may only pay dividends or buyback or redeem shares using distributable reserves. On July 23, 2010, the Irish High Court approved XL-Ireland’s conversion of share premium to $5.0 billion of distributable reserves, subject to the completion of certain formalities under Irish company law. These formalities were completed in early August 2010. As of December 31, 2014, XL-Ireland had $2.9 billion in distributable reserves. In addition, no dividend or distribution may be made unless the net assets of XL-Ireland are not less than the aggregate of its share capital plus undistributable reserves and the distribution does not reduce XL-Ireland’s net assets below such aggregate amount.In addition, XL-Cayman is subject to certain constraints that affect its ability to pay dividends to XL-Ireland or to holders of its preferred shares. Under Cayman Islands law, XL-Cayman may not declare or pay a dividend if there are reasonable grounds for believing that XL-Cayman is, or would after the payment be, unable to pay its liabilities as they become due in the ordinary course of business. Also, the terms of XL-Cayman’s preferred shares prohibit it from declaring or paying dividends on the ordinary shares that XL-Ireland holds unless full dividends have been declared and paid on the outstanding preferred shares.The ability to declare and pay dividends may also be restricted by financial covenants in our letters of credit and revolving credit facilities. We were in compliance with all covenants by significant margins at December 31, 2014, and currently remain in compliance.35We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, on a timely basis or at all.Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. To the extent that the funds generated by our ongoing operations are insufficient to fund future operating requirements and cover claim payments, or that our capital position is adversely impacted by mark-to-market changes on the investment portfolio, catastrophe events or otherwise, we may need to raise additional funds through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any future financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our letter of credit facilities are needed to a significant extent for U.S. cedants, and are effective for such cedants only if the banks issuing letters of credit are on the list of NAIC approved banks. If some or all of the issuing banks under our credit facilities cease to be NAIC approved, whether arising from macroeconomic or bank specific events, and we are unable to replace non-approved banks with NAIC approved banks, our letter of credit facility capacity could be significantly diminished. In addition, in the case of a macroeconomic event, such as dissolution of the European Monetary Union, the availability of alternative lending sources may be significantly reduced or non-existent, and the cost of replacement facilities may be significantly increased or prohibitive. Any future equity financings could be dilutive to our existing shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. Our inability to obtain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Competition in the insurance and reinsurance industries could reduce our operating margins.The insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. We compete on an international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermudian, European and other international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of which have greater financial and management resources and higher ratings than we have. We also compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance and reinsurance markets and with alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance products, such as insurance/risk-linked securities, catastrophe bonds and derivatives. In recent years capital market participants have been increasingly active in the reinsurance market and markets for related risks. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could reduce our margins.Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business.Losses can result from operational risk such as, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology failures, failure to appropriately transition new hires or external events. Areas of operational risk can be heightened in discontinued or exited businesses as a result of reduced overall resource allocation and the loss of relevant knowledge and expertise by departing management or employees.We operate globally, and have two office locations in India that currently provide large portions of our back office support. Our global operations present significant operational risk due to the possibility of political instability, disruptions in communication or information processes, whether due to technical difficulties, power failures or destruction or damage to our offices for any reason. If any disruption occurs, our business continuity and disaster recovery plans may not be effective, particularly if natural or man-made catastrophic events occur, and such disruption could harm our results of operations or our reputation in the marketplace.We believe that our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business, as our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Moreover, our information technology and application systems have been important to our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. Our business depends on effective information systems and the integrity and timeliness of the data we use to run our business. Our ability to adequately price products and services, to establish reserves, to provide effective and efficient service to our clients, and to timely and accurately report our financial results also depends significantly on the integrity of the data in our information systems and processes supporting them. Failure of any of these systems or inaccuracies in the data stored therein may jeopardize our ability to service and interact with clients and report to regulators, which could result in significant losses, reputational damage or regulatory non-compliance. In addition, we have licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our information technology or application systems will continue to operate as intended. We have outsourced the day-to-day management, custody and record-keeping of our investment portfolio to third-party managers, custodians and investment accounting service providers that we believe to be reputable. A major defect in those investment managers’ investment management strategy or decision-making could result in management distraction and/or significant financial loss. We also have outsourced claims handling for certain of our business, including portions of our Run-36Off Life Operations, to third parties and we rely on a few brokers for a large portion of our revenues. A major defect in our brokers’, claims managers', investment managers’ custodians’ or investment accounting services providers' internal controls or information and technology systems could result in management distraction or significant financial loss or other negative impact on our business.Any ineffectiveness in our internal controls, information technology, application systems, investment management (including, without limitation, in setting our investment strategy or in our investment managers' execution of such strategy) or custody and record keeping could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any ineffectiveness in the internal controls, information technology, application systems, investment management strategy or execution or custody or record keeping of any of our aforementioned vendors could also have a material adverse effect on our business.System security risks, data protection breaches and cyber attacks could adversely affect our business and results of operations.Our internal control and information technology and application systems may be vulnerable to threats from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber attacks and other similar disruptions. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network’s system security measures and misappropriate or compromise confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. In addition to our own confidential information, as a (re)insurer, we receive and are required to protect confidential information from clients and other third parties. To the extent any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information or that of others, it could impact our operations, cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our customers and clients, lead to claims against us, result in regulatory action and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to mitigate the damage caused by any security breach, or to protect against future damage.Unanticipated losses from terrorism and uncertainty surrounding the future of the TRIPRA could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The U.S. Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (“TRIA”), as amended, established the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (“TRIP”), which became effective on November 26, 2002 and was a three-year federal program effective through 2005. On December 22, 2005, President George W. Bush signed a bill extending TRIA (“TRIAE”) for two more years, continuing TRIP through 2007. On December 26, 2007, President George W. Bush signed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (“TRIPRA”) which further extended TRIP for seven years until December 31, 2014 and also eliminated the distinction between foreign and domestic acts of terrorism. On January 12, 2015, President Barack H. Obama signed TRIPRA 2015, which is effective retroactively to December 31, 2014 and extends authorization of the TRIP for six years through December 31, 2020. TRIPRA 2015 makes modifications to TRIP by, among other things, establishing a National Association of Registered Agents and Brokers and exempting certain swap participants from capital requirements established under the Dodd-Frank Act.In response to the lack of availability in certain insurance and reinsurance markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11 event, the TRIP was created upon the enactment of the TRIA of 2002 to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for certain terrorist acts in the U.S. This law established a federal program, that has now been extended to December 31, 2020, to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses and to require insurers to offer coverage for terrorist acts.TRIA voided in force terrorism exclusions as of November 26, 2002 for certified terrorism on all TRIA specified property and casualty business. TRIA required covered insurers to make coverage available for certified acts of terrorism on all new and renewal policies issued after TRIA was enacted. TRIA along with further extensions to TRIP, as noted above, allows us to assess a premium charge for terrorism coverage and, if the policyholder declines the coverage or fails to pay the buy-back premium, certified acts of terrorism may then be excluded from the policy, subject, however, to state specific requirements. Terrorism coverage cannot be excluded from workers’ compensation policies. Subject to a premium-based deductible and provided that we have otherwise complied with all the requirements as specified under TRIPRA, we are eligible for reimbursement by the Federal Government for up to 85% (which decreases to 80% in 2020) of our covered terrorism-related losses arising from a certified terrorist attack. Such payment by the government will, in effect, provide reinsurance protection on a quota share basis. The maximum liability during a program year, including both the Federal Government’s and insurers’ shares, is capped on an aggregated basis at $100 billion. While regulations have been promulgated by the Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”) requiring that Treasury advise participating insurers, such as the Company, in advance of reaching the $100 billion aggregate limit that such aggregate limit could be reached during the program year, there is a risk that the Company will not be given adequate notice of the potential exhaustion of that aggregate limit. Accordingly, the Company could overpay with regard to such losses, and it is unlikely Treasury would reimburse the Company for such losses; moreover, it is unclear whether the Company, in the event of an overpayment, would be able to recover the amount of any such overpayment. 37In addition, there is a risk that the occurrence of an event that results in an industry loss that exceeds the $100 billion cap will result in the Company not being reimbursed and reduced coverage for policyholders with terrorism coverage.We believe that TRIP and the related legislation have been an effective mechanism to assist policyholders and industry participants with the extreme contingent losses that might be caused by acts of terrorism. Nevertheless, we cannot provide assurance that TRIPRA 2015 will be extended beyond 2020, and its expiration or a significant change in terms could have an adverse effect on us, our clients or the insurance industry.The regulatory regimes under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a material adverse effect on our business.Our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries operate in more than 20 countries around the world as well as in all 50 U.S. states. Our operations in each of these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, that these subsidiaries maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition and restrict payments of dividends, distributions and reductions of capital in certain circumstances. Statutes, regulations and policies that our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make certain investments and distribute funds.In recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased federal scrutiny. In July 2010, Dodd-Frank was signed into law. Dodd-Frank requires many federal agencies to adopt new rules and regulations that will apply to the financial services industry and also calls for many studies regarding various industry practices. In particular, Dodd-Frank created a FIO within the Treasury that is focused on national coordination of the insurance sector, systemic risk mitigation and international regulatory cooperation. Although the FIO currently does not directly regulate the insurance industry, under Dodd-Frank it has the power to preempt state insurance regulations that are inconsistent with international agreements regarding insurance regulation, subject to certain exceptions. In December 2013 the FIO submitted a report to the U.S. Congress as required under Dodd-Frank on improving U.S. insurance regulation. The report states that state regulation is often duplicative or inconsistent, that the multiplicity of jurisdictions makes state regulators more prone to capture, and that differences in standards between the states provide opportunities for regulatory arbitrage. The report also notes arguments about states’ constitutional limits in regulating multi-state insurers and asserts that insurers may engage in practices that can cause systemic risk, and thus systemically important insurers need to be supervised on a consolidated basis at the federal level. Whether these recommendations will be implemented, altered or delayed for an extended period is uncertain. While we have not yet been required to make material changes to our business or operations as a result of Dodd-Frank , due to the complexity and broad scope of Dodd-Frank and the time required for regulatory implementation, it is not certain what the scope of future rulemaking or interpretive guidance from the SEC, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission or other regulatory agencies may be, and what impact this will have on our compliance costs, business, operations and profitability.In addition, some U.S. state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC, which is the organization of insurance regulators from the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and the four U.S. territories, as well as state insurance regulators, regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations. In one particular example, the NAIC’s SMI has created roadmaps (and continual updates thereto) outlining activities, issues and projects underway focused on five specific areas: Capital Requirements, Governance and Risk Management, Group Supervision, Statutory Accounting and Financial Reporting, and Reinsurance. It is expected that the NAIC will ultimately provide guidelines on all of these areas that will in turn trigger activity among insurers to implement compliant processes and platforms. Given the extensive agenda the SMI covers, there remains uncertainty as to this initiative's costs and the impact it will have on us.  In addition to these proposals and initiatives in the United States, new capital adequacy and risk management regulations, called Solvency II, will be implemented throughout the EEA by January 1, 2016. The CBI has informed us that it will be our group regulator under Solvency II. See Item 1, “Business – Regulation”. Regulations and legislation relating to capital adequacy and risk management are also in the process of being developed or implemented in other jurisdictions. There remains significant uncertainty as to the impact that these various regulations and legislation will have on us; however, such impact could include constraints on our ability to move capital between subsidiaries or require that additional capital be provided to subsidiaries in certain jurisdictions, which may impact our profitability.Whether as a result of Solvency II or similar risk-based capital regimes, various (re)insurance companies are seeking approval of internal models by January 1, 2016 from their relevant regulators for determining their required regulatory capital. We have been engaging with our group supervisor on our group internal capital model and are seeking internal model approvals for certain of our operating subsidiaries. The Acquisition could delay the approval of our internal capital model and other internal models to beyond January 1, 2016. If these internal models are not approved, either due to the Acquisition or other considerations raised by the CBI or any other regulator as part of the model review process, there is a risk that we will be 38required to hold more regulatory capital (e.g., on a standard formula basis) than our internal models might otherwise indicate, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital and surplus.In addition, under Solvency II, E.U. cedants placing reinsurance with (re)insurers that are domiciled in either the E.U. (or in countries that are deemed equivalent to the Solvency II regime for these purposes) will receive full credit for such reinsurance after January 1, 2016. Our operating subsidiaries that are not domiciled in the E.U. (and that are not otherwise domiciled in Solvency II equivalent jurisdictions) that provide reinsurance to E.U. cedants may be required to post collateral to receive full credit for the reinsurance ceded. This could increase the cost of doing business and which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.  Similarly, there is a risk that our operating subsidiaries purchasing reinsurance protection from (re)insurers not domiciled in the E.U. (and that are not domiciled in jurisdictions that are deemed SII equivalent) will not receive full credit for such reinsurance which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1, “Business - Regulation - Solvency II Equivalence” for more information regarding the Solvency II equivalence process.Our Bermuda-based operating subsidiaries are subject to the BMA’s risk-based capital standards for (re)insurance companies, which impose required levels of statutory capital and surplus on our Bermuda-based operating standards. While our Bermuda-based operating subsidiaries currently have excess capital and surplus under these requirements, such requirements or similar regulations, in their current form or as may be amended in the future, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.In addition to insurance and financial industry regulations, our activities are also subject to relevant economic and trade sanctions, money laundering regulations, and anti-corruption laws including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, which may increase the costs of compliance, limit or restrict our ability to do business or engage in certain activities, or subject us to the possibility of civil or criminal actions or proceedings. Although we have in place systems and controls designed to comply with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we, our employees, or our agents acting on our behalf are in full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations or their interpretation by the relevant authorities and, given the complex nature of the risks, it may not always be possible for us to ascertain compliance with such laws and regulations. Failure to comply with or to obtain appropriate authorizations and/or exemptions under such laws or regulations could subject us to investigations, criminal sanctions or civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, loss of an operating license, reputational consequences, and other sanctions, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.We may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain desired exemptions from, revised statutes, regulations and policies that govern the conduct of our business. Failure to comply with, or to obtain desired authorizations and/or exemptions under, any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which we are, or may become subject, or in the interpretations thereof by enforcement or regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Potential government intervention in our industry and instability in the marketplace for insurance products could hinder our flexibility and negatively affect the business opportunities that may be available to us in the market.Government intervention and the possibility of future government intervention have created uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Government regulators are generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of other constituencies, including shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental initiatives, such proposals could adversely affect our business by, among other things:▪providing insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we target, e.g., the creation or expansion of state or federal catastrophe funds such as those in the state of Florida;▪requiring our participation in industry pools and guarantee associations;▪expanding the scope of coverage or altering the enforceability of deductibles under existing policies; ▪regulating the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies;▪ordering the suspension of or otherwise altering the application of insurance laws or regulations; or ▪disproportionately benefiting the companies of one country over those of another.The insurance industry is also affected by legislative, political, judicial and legal developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability, which may result in unexpected claims frequency and severity and delays or cancelations of products and services by insureds, insurers and reinsurers which could adversely affect our business.39For further information regarding government regulation and/or intervention in response to the financial and credit crises, see risk factor entitled “Governmental and regulatory actions may impact the marketplace generally or us in particular” above.Consolidation in the insurance industry could adversely impact us.Insurance industry participants may seek to consolidate through mergers and acquisitions. Continued consolidation within the insurance industry will further enhance the already competitive underwriting environment as we would likely experience more robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. These consolidated entities may use their enhanced market power and broader capital base to negotiate price reductions for our products and services, and reduce their use of reinsurance, and, as such, we may experience rate declines and possibly write less business.The loss of one or more key executives or the inability to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our ability to conduct business.Our success depends on our ability to attract new, highly skilled individuals and to motivate and retain our existing key executives and qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability to attract, motivate and retain other highly skilled individuals in the future could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. In addition, we do not necessarily maintain key man life insurance policies with respect to our senior employees.A decrease in the fair values of our reporting units may result in future goodwill impairments.When we acquire an entity, the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. The goodwill is then assigned to a level of reporting referred to as a "reporting unit" for purposes of impairment testing.  We conduct impairment tests on our goodwill at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators exist. In performing a goodwill impairment test, we use various methods and make various assumptions to determine the fair value of our reporting units, including the determination of expected future cash flows and/or profitability of such reporting units, and we take into account market value multiples and/or cash flows of entities that we deem to be comparable in nature, scope or size to our reporting units. However, expected future cash flows and/or profitability may be materially and negatively impacted as a result of, among other things, a decrease in pricing or renewal activity and new business opportunities, a decrease in retention of our underwriting teams, lower-than-expected yields and/or cash flows from our investment portfolio or higher-than-expected claims activity and incurred losses and general economic factors that impact the reporting unit. In addition, previously determined market value multiples and/or cash flows may no longer be relevant as a result of these potential factors. As a result of these potential changes, the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units may decrease, causing the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit - which includes the value of the assigned goodwill - to exceed the fair value of such net assets, thus creating a goodwill impairment. If we determine such an impairment exists, we adjust the carrying value of goodwill to its implied fair value. The impairment charge is recorded in our income statement in the period in which the impairment is determined. If we are required in the future to record additional goodwill impairments, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. In connection with fair value measurements and the accounting for goodwill, the use of generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and assumptions, and actual results may ultimately be materially different from such estimates and assumptions.We are exposed to risks in connection with our management of third party capital. Our asset manager affiliate (New Ocean Capital Management Limited ("New Ocean")) or other affiliated investment vehicles in which we may be involved may owe certain legal duties and obligations to third party investors (including reporting obligations), and will be subject to complex laws and regulations relating to the management of third party capital. Compliance with some of these laws and regulations, all of which are subject to change, requires significant management time and attention. Although New Ocean will seek to continually monitor its policies and procedures to attempt to ensure compliance, faulty or mistaken judgments or representations, errors or the failure of its personnel to adhere to its policies and procedures could result in its failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations which could result in significant liabilities, penalties or other losses and harm our business and results of operations. The investment vehicles that are managed by New Ocean will have commercial and contractual arrangements and certain conflicts of interest may arise from those arrangements. For example, one or more of our operating subsidiaries may provide underwriting, modeling and claims management services to the asset manager or certain reinsurance risk may be retroceded in respect of the investment vehicles managed by the asset manager. In addition, such entities may underwrite business or invest in asset classes similar to those underwritten or targeted by us, which could result in conflicts in allocating opportunities between us and such other entities.In addition to the foregoing, our investments in New Ocean and its affiliated investment funds may be adversely affected by unexpected redemptions of third party capital providers' interests in such funds. Moreover, New Ocean and its affiliated 40investment funds may not be able to attract and raise additional third party capital for existing funds or for potential new investment vehicles, and therefore we may forego existing and/or potential attractive fee income and other income generating opportunities, which could materially impact our investments in those entities.Provisions in our Articles of Association may reduce the voting rights of our ordinary shares.Our Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting power that may be exercised by certain persons or groups may not equal or exceed 10% of the voting power conferred by our shares.In particular, our Articles of Association provide that if, and for so long as, the votes conferred by the Controlled Shares (as defined below) of any person constitute 10% or more of the votes conferred by all our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the Controlled Shares of such person shall be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power equal to approximately (but slightly less than) 10%, pursuant to a formula set forth in the our Articles of Association. “Controlled Shares” of a person (as defined in our Articles of Association) include (1) all of our shares owned directly, indirectly or constructively by that person (within the meaning of Section 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRS Code”) and (2) all of our shares owned directly, indirectly or constructively by that person or any “group” of which that person is a part, within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.Provisions in our Articles of Association may restrict the ownership and transfer of our ordinary shares.Our Articles of Association provide that the XL-Ireland Board shall decline to register a transfer of shares if it appears to the XL-Ireland Board, whether before or after such transfer, that the effect of such transfer would be to increase the number of Controlled Shares of any person to 10% or more of any class of our voting shares, of our total issued shares, or of the total voting power of our total issued shares.Certain provisions in our charter documents could, among other things, impede an attempt to replace our directors or impose restrictions with respect to a change of control, which could diminish the value of our ordinary shares.Our Articles of Association contain provisions that may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors and could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions currently include limitations on the ability of shareholders to remove directors, limitations on voting rights, certain transfer restrictions on our ordinary shares and a partially classified board of directors (which will be fully declassified following our 2016 Annual General Meeting).As an Irish company, we are subject to the Irish Takeover Rules, under which the XL-Ireland Board is not permitted to take any action that might “frustrate” an offer for our shares once the XL-Ireland Board has received an offer or has reason to believe an offer is or may be imminent without the approval of more than 50% of shareholders entitled to vote at a general meeting of shareholders and/or the consent of the Irish Takeover Panel. This could limit the ability of the Board of Directors to take defensive actions even if the XL-Ireland Board believes that such defensive actions would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.The Irish Takeover Rules also could discourage an investor from acquiring 30% or more of our outstanding ordinary shares unless such investor was prepared to make a bid to acquire all outstanding ordinary shares. Further, it could be more difficult for us to obtain shareholder approval for a merger or negotiated transaction because of heightened shareholder approval requirements for certain types of transactions under Irish law.In addition, insurance regulations in certain jurisdictions may also delay or prevent a change of control or limit the ability of a shareholder to acquire in excess of specified amounts of our ordinary shares.Irish shareholder voting requirements may limit flexibility with respect to certain aspects of capital management.Irish law allows shareholders to authorize a board of directors to issue shares subsequent to receipt of authorization without further shareholder approval, but this authorization must be renewed after five years. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, Irish law grants statutory preemption rights to existing ordinary shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares for cash, but allows such shareholders to authorize the waiver of such statutory preemption rights for five years. Our Articles of Association currently provide authority to the Board of Directors to issue shares without further shareholder approval and to waive ordinary shareholders’ statutory preemption rights. However, the share issuance authorization may expire upon the effectiveness of new Irish company legislation and the preemption opt-out provision will expire in 2015, in each case, unless renewed by XL-Ireland’s shareholders, and these authorizations and waivers may not always be renewed, which could limit our ability to issue equity in the future.41It may be difficult to enforce judgments against XL-Ireland, XL-Cayman or their directors and executive officers.XL-Ireland is incorporated pursuant to the laws of Ireland. In addition, from time to time, certain of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of any such directors and officers are located outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon those persons or to recover on judgments of U.S. courts against us or such directors and officers, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland:▪the judgment must be for a definite sum;▪the judgment must be final and conclusive; and▪the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction.An Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment was obtained by fraud, if the judgment violated Irish public policy, if the judgment is in breach of natural justice or if it is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment.In addition, XL-Cayman is incorporated pursuant to the laws of the Cayman Islands and is an Irish tax resident. Requirements for enforceability of foreign judgments in Ireland are summarized above. We have been advised that there is doubt as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would enforce:▪judgments of U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws obtained in actions against XL-Cayman or its directors and officers who reside outside the United States; or▪original actions brought in the Cayman Islands against these persons or XL-Cayman predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws.There is also no treaty in effect between the United States and the Cayman Islands providing for such enforcement and there are grounds upon which Cayman Islands courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Cayman Islands courts as contrary to public policy.Current, pending or future lawsuits against us, including putative class action lawsuits, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular fiscal quarter or year.We are subject to lawsuits and arbitrations in the regular course of our business. An adverse resolution of one or more lawsuits or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in a particular fiscal quarter or year.Changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our reported financial results.Developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if we are required to prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may affect the calculation of net income, net equity and other relevant financial statement line items and the timing of when impairments and other charges are tested or taken. We and our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.We take the position that neither we nor any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries are engaged in a U.S. trade or business through a U.S. permanent establishment. Accordingly, we take the position that neither we or our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not contend successfully that we or any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If we or any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, any such entity could be subject to U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.42Changes in U.S. tax law might adversely affect an investment in our shares.Legislation may be introduced in the U.S. Congress attempting to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the U.S. but have certain U.S. affiliates. For example, one legislative proposal could impose additional limits on the deductibility of interest by foreign-owned U.S. corporations. Another legislative proposal could modify the standards that indicate when a non-U.S. corporation might be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it were considered to be primarily managed and controlled in the U.S. In addition, legislation has been proposed in the U.S. that would severely restrict the ability of a company to utilize affiliate reinsurance to manage its U.S. risks and its capital position. Various proposals have been made that would effectively disallow (in some cases permanently and in others temporarily) part or all of the deduction for premiums ceded to affiliates. If any of these proposals, or a similar proposal using the same underlying principles, is enacted, it could have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders. It is possible that other legislative proposals could emerge in the future that could also have an adverse impact on us or our shareholders.Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent establishment) within the United States or is a Passive Foreign Investment Company (“PFIC”), or whether U.S. holders would be required to include in their gross income “subpart F income” or the related person insurance income, which we refer to as “RPII” of a Controlled Foreign Corporation (“CFC”), are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect.We cannot assure you that future legislative action will not increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by us. If an increase occurs, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.There is U.S. income tax risk associated with reinsurance between U.S. insurance companies and their Bermuda affiliates.As discussed above, the U.S. Congress has periodically considered legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of non-U.S. insurance companies and U.S. insurance companies with non-U.S. affiliates, including perceived tax benefits resulting principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance companies and their non-U.S. affiliates. In this regard, section 845 of the IRS Code was amended in 2004 to permit the IRS to reallocate, recharacterize or adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper “amount, source or character” for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered “source and character”). If the IRS were to successfully challenge our reinsurance arrangements under section 845, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected and the price of our ordinary shares could be adversely affected.The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development has launched an Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting that if implemented might change the manner in which we are taxed.  In July 2013, The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“the OECD”) launched an Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS Action Plan”). The BEPS Action Plan identifies 15 specific actions to address tax planning strategies that exploit gaps and mismatches in tax rules to artificially shift profits to low or no-tax locations where there is little or no economic activity, resulting in little or no overall corporate tax being paid. In addition, the BEPS Action Plan sets deadlines to implement the actions and identifies the resources needed and the methodology to implement these actions. The OECD reports and recommendations for the 15 actions outlined in the plan are expected to be finalized and delivered by December 31, 2015. For the first time in tax matters, non-OECD/G20 countries are involved on an equal footing in delivering these actions. The implementation of these actions could have a material impact on how we and other multinational organizations are taxed. If an investor acquires 10% or more of our ordinary shares, it may be subject to taxation under the  U.S. "controlled foreign corporation" ("CFC") rules.Under certain circumstances, a U.S. person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of a foreign corporation that is a CFC (a foreign corporation in which 10% U.S. shareholders own more than 50% of the voting power of the foreign corporation or more than 25% of a foreign insurance company) for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year must include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such “10% U.S. Shareholder’s” pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed to such 10% U.S. Shareholder, if such 10% U.S. Shareholder owns (directly or indirectly through foreign entities) any shares of the foreign corporation on the last day of the corporation’s taxable year. “Subpart F income” of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income 43(including underwriting and investment income) attributable to the insurance of risks situated outside the CFC’s country of incorporation.While provisions in our organizational documents serve to limit voting power on our ordinary shares, it is possible, that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a court could sustain such a challenge, in which case an investor’s investment could be materially adversely affected, if the investor is considered to own 10% or more of our shares.U.S. Persons who hold shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes.If we are considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. person who owns any of our shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and tax on amounts in advance of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case an investor’s investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the shares that might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, we may be deemed a PFIC by the IRS in the future. If we were considered a PFIC, it could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation.There are U.S. income tax risks associated with the related person insurance income of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries.If (i) the related person insurance income, which we refer to as “RPII,” of any one of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and (ii) U.S. persons were treated as owning 25% or more of the subsidiary’s stock (by vote or value), a U.S. person who owns any ordinary shares, directly or indirectly, on the last day of such taxable year on which the 25% threshold is met would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if that RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. holders at that date, regardless of whether that income is distributed. The amount of RPII earned by a subsidiary (generally premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares of that subsidiary or any person related to that holder) would depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by that subsidiary. Although we do not believe that the 20% threshold will be met in respect of any of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries, some of the factors that may affect the result in any period may be beyond our control. Consequently, we cannot provide absolute assurance that we will not exceed the RPII threshold in any taxable year.The RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation that had RPII (even if the 20% gross income threshold was not met) and met the 25% ownership threshold at any time during the five-year period ending on the date of disposition, and the holder owned any stock at such time, any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share (taking into account certain rules for determining a U.S. holder’s share of RPII) of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with specified reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned. We believe that these rules should not apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares because XL-Ireland is not itself directly engaged in the insurance business. We cannot provide absolute assurance, however, that the IRS will not successfully assert that these rules apply to dispositions of our ordinary shares.We and our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries may become subject to taxes in Bermuda in the future, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and your investment.Our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries have received from the Ministry of Finance in Bermuda exemptions from any Bermuda taxes that might be imposed on profits, income or any capital asset, gain or appreciation until March 31, 2035. The exemptions are subject to the proviso that they are not construed so as to prevent the application of any tax or duty to persons who are ordinarily residents in Bermuda (the Company and our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries are not so currently designated) and to prevent the application of any tax payable in accordance with the provisions of The Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable in relation to the land leased to us and our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries. XL-Ireland and other Bermuda-based subsidiaries not incorporated in Bermuda have also received similar exemptions as permit companies under the Companies Act of 1981 of Bermuda. These exemptions have also been extended to 2035. Our Bermuda (re)insurance subsidiaries are required to pay certain annual Bermuda government fees and certain business fees as a (re)insurer under The 44Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda. Currently there is no Bermuda withholding tax on dividends paid by our Bermuda (re)-insurance subsidiaries to us. The tax rules as presently applied may change in the future, however.XL-Cayman may become subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands after June 2, 2018, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and your investment.For tax purposes, XL-Cayman is resident in Ireland by virtue of central management and control. In the event the Cayman Islands introduces a corporate income tax based on place of incorporation, XL-Cayman would be a dual resident company and potentially subject to tax in both Ireland and the Cayman Islands. As there is no double tax treaty between the Cayman Islands and Ireland, XL-Cayman could become subject to taxation in both Ireland and the Cayman Islands. Under current Cayman Islands law, we are not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman Islands on our income or gains. We have received an undertaking from the Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands pursuant to the provisions of the Tax Concessions Law, as amended, that until June 2, 2018, (i) no subsequently enacted law imposing any tax on profits, income, gains or appreciation shall apply to XL-Cayman and (ii) no such tax and no tax in the nature of an estate duty or an inheritance tax shall be payable on any of XL-Cayman's ordinary shares, debentures or other obligations. Given the limited duration of the undertaking from the Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Cayman Islands tax after June 2, 2018. Such taxation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on your investment.Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof.Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by the tax authorities in Ireland, the United States and other jurisdictions. Such tax law changes could cause a material and adverse change in our worldwide effective tax rate and we may have to take further action, at potentially significant expense, to seek to mitigate the effect of such changes. Any future amendments to the current income tax treaties between Ireland and other jurisdictions, including the United States, could subject us to increased taxation and/or potentially significant expense.Dividends you receive may be subject to Irish dividend withholding tax and Irish income tax.Dividend withholding tax (currently at a rate of 20%) may arise in respect of dividends paid on the Company’s ordinary shares. However, a number of exemptions from dividend withholding tax exist such that ordinary shareholders resident in the United States and ordinary shareholders resident in other specified countries (listed in Annex F attached to the Redomestication Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on March 10, 2010) may be entitled to exemptions from dividend withholding tax if they complete and file certain dividend withholding tax forms. Ordinary shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their ordinary shares through the Depository Trust Company (“DTC”) will not be subject to dividend withholding tax provided the addresses of the beneficial owners of such ordinary shares in the records of the brokers holding such ordinary shares are in the United States (so that such brokers can further transmit the relevant information to a qualifying intermediary appointed by the Company). Similarly, ordinary shareholders resident in the U.S. that hold their ordinary shares directly instead of beneficially through DTC are not subject to dividend withholding tax if such ordinary shareholders held ordinary shares in the Company on January 12, 2010 and they provided a valid Form W-9 showing a U.S. address to the Company’s transfer agent. In addition, XL shareholders resident in the U.S. that acquire their XL Shares after January 12, 2010 and that hold their XL Shares directly instead of beneficially through DTC are not subject to Irish dividend withholding tax if such XL shareholders satisfy the conditions of any of one of several exemptions from Irish dividend withholding tax (exemptions include where such an XL shareholder is an individual neither resident nor ordinarily resident in Ireland, or such an XL shareholder is a company not under the control of a person or persons that is or are resident in Ireland), including the requirements to furnish completed Irish Revenue Commissioners' prescribed dividend withholding tax forms and that such forms remain valid. However, other ordinary shareholders may be subject to dividend withholding tax, which could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.In addition, ordinary shareholders entitled to an exemption from Irish dividend withholding tax on dividends received from the Company should not be subject to Irish income tax in respect of those dividends, unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their ordinary shareholdings in the Company. Ordinary shareholders who receive dividends subject to Irish dividend withholding tax will generally have no further liability to Irish income tax on those dividends unless they have some connection with Ireland other than their ordinary shareholding in the Company.A future transfer of your ordinary shares, other than one effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in DTC, may be subject to Irish stamp duty.Transfers of our ordinary shares effected by means of the transfer of book entry interests in DTC will not be subject to Irish stamp duty. The majority of our ordinary shares will be traded through DTC, either directly or through brokers who hold such ordinary shares on behalf of customers through DTC. However, if you hold your ordinary shares directly rather than 45beneficially through DTC (or through a broker that holds your ordinary shares through DTC), any transfer of your ordinary shares could be subject to Irish stamp duty (currently at the rate of 1% of the higher of the price paid or the market value of the ordinary shares acquired). Payment of Irish stamp duty is generally a legal obligation of the transferee. The potential for stamp duty could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares.The consummation of the Acquisition of Catlin is subject to a number of conditions.The Acquisition is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of conditions, on or before October 9, 2015 or such later date as the Company and Catlin may (with the consent of  the Bermuda Supreme Court, if required) agree.These (and any other) conditions may not be satisfied (or waived, if applicable). Failure to satisfy any of these conditions may result in the Acquisition not being completed, which would mean that costs relating to the negotiation, preparation and implementation of the Acquisition will have been incurred by the Company with none of the potential benefits of the Acquisition having been achieved. It would also mean that management’s time spent in connection with the Acquisition, which could have otherwise been spent in connection with other aspects of the Company’s business, will not have been spent productively.Costs related to the Acquisition and synergies that could result from the Acquisition may differ from those anticipated.While the Company believes that the costs related to the Acquisition and synergies expected to arise from the Acquisition have been reasonably estimated, unanticipated events or liabilities may arise which could result in a potential delay or potential reduction in the benefits anticipated to be derived from the Acquisition, or in costs significantly in excess of those estimated.The Company following the Acquisition (the “Enlarged XL Group”) may also face challenges with the following: redeploying resources in different areas of operations to improve efficiency; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; and addressing possible differences between the Company’s business culture, processes, controls, procedures and systems and those of Catlin. Additionally, the Acquisition might affect the relationship that the Company and/or Catlin have with customers, brokers and other business partners, and affect the performance and/or potential growth opportunities.Under any of these circumstances, the business growth opportunities, overhead functions consolidation benefits and other synergies anticipated by the Company and Catlin to result from the Acquisition may not be achieved as expected, or at all, or may be delayed materially. To the extent that the Enlarged XL Group incurs higher integration costs or achieves lower synergy benefits than expected, its results of operations, financial condition and/or prospects, and the price of the Company’s shares, may be adversely affected.The Enlarged XL Group’s future prospects will, in part, be dependent on effective integration of the Company and Catlin, including with respect to key employees and IT and operational systems.The Enlarged XL Group’s future prospects will, in part, be dependent upon the Enlarged XL Group’s ability to integrate Catlin into the Company successfully and any other businesses that the Company may acquire in the future without material disruption to the existing business, including as a result of the integration of information technology ("IT") and operational systems. The performance of the Enlarged XL Group in the future will, among other things, also depend on the successful integration and motivation of key employees from both the Company and Catlin. It is possible that failure to retain certain individuals during the integration period will affect the ability to integrate Catlin into the Company successfully and could have a material adverse effect on the Enlarged XL Group’s business, financial condition and results of operations or losses on assets.The Acquisition may expose the Company to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company’s purchase of Catlin may expose it to significant unanticipated liabilities relating to the operation of the Enlarged XL Group following the Acquisition. These liabilities could include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, and claims by or amounts owed to vendors. The Company may also incur liabilities or claims associated with its acquisition of Catlin’s technology and intellectual property including claims of infringement. Particularly in international jurisdictions, the Company’s acquisition of Catlin, or the Company’s decision to independently enter new international markets where Catlin previously conducted business, could also expose the Company to tax liabilities and other amounts owed by Catlin. The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.   46Depending on the legal method for implementing the Acquisition, the Company may experience a delay in acquiring or may not be able to acquire the entire issued share capital of Catlin, which would mean that there would be minority shareholders in Catlin.If the Company elects to implement the Acquisition by way of a takeover offer, rather than the Scheme, it will be able to determine the level, at a percentage of Catlin Shares carrying in aggregate between 75% and 90% of voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting of Catlin, at which the acceptance condition for the offer will be set. If the Company sets the acceptance level at (or reduces the level of the acceptance condition during the takeover process to) Catlin Shares carrying less than 90% of voting rights normally exercisable at a general meeting of Catlin subject to the offer, it is possible that the acceptance condition will be satisfied (so that the Company cannot invoke the condition related thereto and withdraw its offer), but that an insufficient number of Catlin shareholders will accept the offer to allow the Company to compulsorily acquire the shares of those Catlin shareholders who have not accepted the offer. In such circumstances, minority shareholders would retain a stake in Catlin and would benefit from certain legal protections afforded to them under Bermuda law unless and until the Company was able to acquire the remaining outstanding Catlin Shares. The Company may be unable to realize all of the benefits that it might otherwise obtain from a successful completion of the Acquisition if there are minority shareholders in Catlin after completion of the Acquisition.  Even if a material adverse change to Catlin's business were to occur, it is highly unlikely that the Company would be able to invoke the conditions to the Acquisition and terminate the Acquisition, which could reduce the value of the Company’s shares.The Acquisition is subject to certain conditions, including the condition that there have not been material adverse changes in the business, assets, liabilities, financial or trading position, profits or operational performance or prospects of any member of Catlin’s consolidated group.  The Company may invoke this “material adverse change” condition to the Acquisition to cause it not to proceed only if a committee of an equal number of representatives of the Company and Catlin, as designated under the implementation agreement governing the Acquisition (the “Code Committee”), or an independent expert on the U.K. City Code on Mergers and Acquisitions designated by the Company and Catlin pursuant to the Implementation Agreement (the “Code Expert”) (as the case may be) is satisfied that the circumstances giving rise to that condition not being satisfied are of material significance to the Company in the context of the Acquisition. In making this determination, the Code Committee or the Code Expert (as the case may be) will require there to be an adverse change of very considerable significance striking at the heart of the purpose of the transaction. In practice, it is highly unlikely that the Company would be able to invoke the material adverse change condition.  As a result, the conditions may provide the Company less protection than the customary conditions in an offer for a U.S. domestic company. If a material adverse change affecting Catlin were to occur and the Code Committee or the Code Expert (as the case may be) did not allow the Company to invoke a condition that would cause the Acquisition not to proceed, the market price of the Company’ shares could decline or the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.The value of the XL-Ireland ordinary shares to be issued to Catlin’s shareholders in the Acquisition will vary as a result of the fixed exchange ratio and possible fluctuations in the price of Company shares.Upon consummation of the Acquisition, each Catlin Share (other than Catlin Shares already legally or beneficially held by the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, any treasury shares and any Catlin Shares legally or beneficially held by any of Catlin’s subsidiary undertakings) will be exchanged for 388 pence in cash and 0.130 new XL-Ireland ordinary shares.  Because the exchange ratio is fixed at 0.130 new XL-Ireland ordinary shares for each Catlin Share, the market value of the new Company shares issued in exchange for Catlin Shares will depend upon the market price of a XL-Ireland ordinary share at the date the Acquisition is consummated. If the price of XL-Ireland ordinary shares declines, Catlin shareholders could receive less value for their shares upon the consummation of the Acquisition than the value calculated pursuant to the exchange ratio on the date the Acquisition was announced or as of the date of publication of the Acquisition Prospectus. Share price changes may result from a variety of factors that are beyond the companies’ control, including general market conditions, changes in business prospects, catastrophic events, both natural and man-made, and regulatory considerations.The increase in the number of outstanding XL-Ireland ordinary shares  resulting from the issuance of new XL-Ireland ordinary shares to Catlin shareholders in connection with the Acquisition may lead to sales of such shares or the perception that such sales may occur, either of which may adversely affect the market for, and the market price of, XL-Ireland shares.Catlin shareholders may receive a form of consideration different from what they elect under the Mix and Match Facility.Although each Catlin shareholder (other than certain Catlin overseas shareholders) may elect to receive, in respect of some or all of their holdings of Catlin Shares and subject to offsetting elections, (i) all cash, or (ii) all new XL-Ireland ordinary shares, instead of receiving 388 pence and 0.130 new XL-Ireland ordinary shares for each Catlin Share (the “Mix and Match 47Facility”), the total number of new XL-Ireland ordinary shares to be issued and the maximum aggregate amount of cash to be paid under the Acquisition will not be varied as a result of elections under the Mix and Match Facility.  Accordingly, elections made by Catlin shareholders under the Mix and Match Facility will be satisfied only to the extent that other Catlin shareholders make off-setting elections. To the extent that elections cannot be satisfied in full, they will be scaled down on a pro rata basis. As a result, Catlin shareholders who make an election under the Mix and Match Facility will not know the exact number of new Company shares or the amount of cash they will receive until settlement of the consideration due to them in respect of the Acquisition.  This could result in, among other things, tax consequences that differ from those that would have resulted if such Catlin shareholder had exclusively received the form of consideration that the shareholder elected (including the potential recognition of a gain for income tax purposes if the shareholder receives cash).The proration and adjustment procedures applicable to the Mix and Match Facility do not include any mechanism to ensure that the value of the consideration received for each Catlin Share is equivalent, and the value of the consideration received by a Catlin shareholder may be different depending on such shareholder’s election. In the event that a Catlin shareholder does not make an election under the Mix and Match Facility it will receive 388 pence in cash and 0.130 new XL-Ireland ordinary shares for each Catlin Share.Catlin’s counterparties may acquire certain rights in connection with the Acquisition which could negatively affect the Company following the Acquisition.Catlin is party to numerous contracts, treaties, agreements, licenses, permits, authorizations and other arrangements that contain provisions giving counterparties certain rights (including, in some cases, termination or acceleration rights) in the event of a “change in control” of Catlin or its subsidiaries. The definition of “change in control” varies from contract to contract, ranging from a narrow to a broad definition, and, in some cases, the “change in control” provisions may be implicated by the Acquisition.  Such agreements include Catlin's letter of credit and revolving credit facilities (a termination of which may require cash collateralization of the outstanding letters of credit, prepayment of outstanding loans (including all accrued interest and fees thereon) and an inability to request new loans or letters of credit).Specifically with regards to Catlin’s reinsurance arrangements, many in-force reinsurance contracts contain such “change in control” provisions. In addition, many of these reinsurance contracts are annually renewable and whether or not they may be terminated in a change in control, reinsurance cedants may choose not to renew these contracts with the Enlarged XL Group. Termination and failure to renew reinsurance agreements by contractual counterparties could result in a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and operating results.Additionally, reinsurance cedants may be permitted to cancel contracts on a cut-off or run-off basis, and Catlin may be required to provide collateral to secure premium and reserve balances or may be required to cancel and commute a contract, subject to an agreement between the parties that may be settled in arbitration. If a contract is canceled on a cut-off basis, Catlin may be required to return unearned premiums, net of commissions. In addition, contracts may provide cedants with multiple options, such as collateralization or commutation, that would be triggered by a change in control. Collateral requirements may take the form of trust agreements or be funded by securities held or letters of credit. Upon commutation, the amount to be paid to settle the liability for gross loss reserves typically would be considered a discount to the financial statement loss reserve value, reflecting the time value of money resident in the ultimate settlement of such loss reserves. In certain instances, contracts contain dual triggers, such as a change in control and a ratings downgrade, both of which must be satisfied for the contractual right to be exercisable.Whether a cedant would have cancellation rights in connection with the Acquisition depends upon the language of its agreement with Catlin. Whether a cedant exercises any cancellation rights it has would depend on, among other factors, such ceding company’s views with respect to the financial strength and business reputation of the Enlarged XL Group, the extent to which such cedant currently has reinsurance coverage with the Company’s affiliates, the prevailing market conditions, the pricing and availability of replacement reinsurance coverage and the Company’s ratings following the Acquisition. Neither the Company nor Catlin can presently predict the effects, if any, if the Acquisition is deemed to constitute a change in control under certain of Catlin's contracts and other arrangements, including the extent to which cancellation rights would be exercised, if at all, or the effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows following the Acquisition, but such effect could be material.Each of the Company and Catlin will be exposed to underwriting and other business risks during the period that each party’s business continues to be operated independently from the other.Until the completion of the Acquisition, each of the Company and Catlin will operate independently from the other in accordance with such party’s distinct underwriting guidelines, investment policies, referral processes, authority levels and risk management policies and practices. As a result, during this period, Catlin may assume risks that the Company would not have assumed for itself, accept premiums that, in the Company’s judgment, do not adequately compensate it for the risks assumed, 48make investment decisions that would not adhere to the Company’s investment policies or otherwise make business decisions or take on exposure that, while consistent with Catlin’s general business approach and practices, are not the same as those of the Company.  Significant delays in completing the Acquisition will materially increase the risk that Catlin will operate its business in a manner that differs from how the business would have been conducted by the Company.The Enlarged XL Group faces risks related to operating at Lloyd’s.Catlin is currently the largest underwriting syndicate in Lloyd's and, accordingly, it is expected that the Enlarged XL Group will be the largest underwriting syndicate in Lloyd's on completion of the Acquisition. As a result, the Enlarged XL Group will face increased exposure to the risks facing syndicates operating at Lloyd's (as compared with the XL Group's current exposure to such risks) which include, but are not limited to, the following factors which, alone or in combination, could have an adverse effect on the Enlarged XL Group's business, financial condition and results of operations:•having greater exposure to the Council of Lloyd's (the "Council") wide discretionary powers to regulate members of Lloyd's, including the Council's power to vary the method by which the capital solvency ratio is calculated;•being subject to increased capital requirements due to changes in regulation;•facing reputational issues arising from the actions of other Lloyd's syndicates;•being subject to potential changes in business strategy due to requirements of the Lloyd's Franchise Board (which is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Lloyd's market);•reduced underwriting capacity for the Enlarged XL Group due to a reduction in the funds held in trust at Lloyd's (as a result of changes in the market value of investments or otherwise) to support underwriting activities;•being required to cease or reduce underwriting if Lloyd's fails to satisfy the FCA's and the PRA's annual solvency test in any given year;•having a reduced ability to trade in certain classes of business at current levels as a consequence of a downgrading of the Lloyd's market;•being subject to additional or special levies imposed by the Council; and •as a Lloyd's syndicate transacting certain types of business in the United States, being required by U.S. regulators to increase the level of funding required as minimum deposits for the protection of U.S. policyholders and, as a consequence, being required to make cash calls to meet claims payments and deposit funding obligations.ITEM 1B