ITEM 1A.


 


RISK FACTORS




          Any
of the following risk factors could have a significant or material adverse
effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or
liquidity, in addition to the other information contained in this report.
Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial
may also impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. In
this Item 1A, “XL Capital”, “XL Group”, “we”, “our”, “ours” and “us”
refer to
XL Capital Ltd and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires.

Risks Related to Our Company

A downgrade in our
credit ratings by one or more rating agencies could materially and negatively
impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or
liquidity.

          In
the fourth quarter of 2005, Standard & Poor’s, a division of The
McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“S&P”) lowered XL Capital’s core property and
casualty operating companies’ financial strength ratings to “A+” from “AA-” and
affirmed them with a stable outlook. During this period, Moody’s Investors
Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) also lowered the insurance financial strength ratings
of XL Capital’s leading insurance operating subsidiaries to “Aa3” from “Aa2”
and confirmed the insurance financial strength ratings of XL Capital’s leading
reinsurance operating subsidiaries at “Aa3.” In October 2005, Fitch Ratings
Inc. (“Fitch”) lowered the insurance financial strength ratings of XL Capital’s
lead insurance and reinsurance operating subsidiaries to “AA-” from “AA.” A.M.
Best Company, Inc. (“A.M. Best”) affirmed XL Capital’s financial strength
rating of “A+” and XL Capital’s operating subsidiaries’ issuer credit ratings
of “aa-” in December 2005.

          As
our ability to underwrite business is dependent upon the quality of our claims
paying and financial strength ratings as evaluated by these independent rating
agencies, a further downgrade by any of these institutions could cause our
competitive position in the insurance and reinsurance industry to suffer and
make it more difficult for us to market our products. A downgrade could also
result in a substantial loss of business for us as ceding companies and brokers
that place such business may move to other insurers and reinsurers with higher
ratings.

          A
downgrade of the A.M. Best financial strength rating of XL Capital Ltd, XL
Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd or XL Re Ltd below “A-”, which is two notches below our
current A.M. Best rating of “A+”, would constitute an event of default under
our letter of credit and revolving credit facilities. A similar downgrade by
A.M. Best or S&P would trigger cancellation provisions in the majority of
our assumed reinsurance contracts. See “—Risks Related to Our Company—A decline
in our ratings may allow many of our clients to terminate their contracts with
us,” below. Either of these events could reduce our financial flexibility and
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations. For further discussion, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

          S&P,
Moody’s and Fitch have assessed “triple-A” (outlook stable) financial strength
ratings to our SCA financial guaranty companies, XL Capital Assurance Inc.
(“XLCA”) and XL Financial Assurance Ltd. (“XLFA”). A downgrade, rating watch or
outlook change of the financial strength ratings of XLCA or XLFA by one or more
rating agencies would have an adverse effect on the competitive position of
XLCA and XLFA and reduce their future business opportunities. Such a downgrade
would reduce the value of the reinsurance offered by XLFA, as financial
guaranty primary insurers usually must obtain triple-A-rated reinsurance to
qualify for a 100% reinsurance credit on the rating agencies’ capital adequacy
models. Also, certain of XLFA’s reinsurance agreements contain provisions that
allow the ceding primary insurer to terminate the agreement in the event of a
downgrade in XLFA’s credit ratings or other event that would result in the
reinsurance credit provided by XLFA to the ceding primary insurer being
diminished.

A decline in our
ratings may allow many of our clients to terminate their contracts with us.

          The
majority of our assumed reinsurance contracts contain provisions that would
allow our clients to cancel the contract in the event of a downgrade in our
ratings below specified levels by one or more rating agencies. Based on premium
value, approximately 70% of our reinsurance contracts that incepted at January
1, 2006 contained provisions allowing clients additional rights upon a decline
in our ratings.

31




          Typically,
the cancellation provisions in our assumed reinsurance contracts would be
triggered if S&P or A.M. Best were to downgrade our financial strength
ratings below “A-”, which is equivalent to more than two levels below our
current S&P rating of “A+” and more than two levels below our current A.M.
Best rating of “A+.” Whether a client would exercise its cancellation rights
after such a downgrade would likely depend, among other things, on the reasons
for the downgrade, the extent of the downgrade, the prevailing market
conditions, the degree of unexpired coverage, and the pricing and availability
of replacement reinsurance coverage. In the event of such a downgrade, we
cannot predict whether or how many of our clients would actually exercise such
cancellation rights or the extent to which any such cancellations would have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition or future prospects.

Our financial
condition could be adversely affected by the occurrence of disasters.

          We
have substantial exposure to losses resulting from natural and man-made
disasters and other catastrophic events. Catastrophes can be caused by various
events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, hailstorms, explosions,
severe winter weather, fires, war, acts of terrorism, political instability and
other natural or man-made disasters. The incidence and severity of catastrophes
are inherently unpredictable and our losses from catastrophes could be
substantial.

          The
occurrence of claims from catastrophic events is likely to result in
substantial volatility in our financial condition and results of operations for
the fiscal quarter or year in which a catastrophic event occurs, as well as
subsequent fiscal periods, and could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations and our ability to write new
business. This risk is exacerbated due to accounting principles and rules that
do not permit reinsurers to reserve for such catastrophic events until they
occur. We expect that increases in the values and concentrations of insured
property will increase the severity of catastrophic events in the future.
Although we attempt to manage our exposure to catastrophic events, a single
catastrophic event could affect multiple geographic zones and lines of business
and the frequency or severity of catastrophic events could exceed our
estimates, in each case potentially having a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. In addition, while we may,
depending on market conditions, purchase catastrophe reinsurance and
retrocessional protection, the occurrence of one or more major catastrophes in
any given period could result in losses that exceed such reinsurance and
retroces-sional protection and have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations and result in substantial liquidation of
investments and outflows of cash as losses are paid.

The failure of any
of the risk management strategies that we employ could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or liquidity.

          We
seek to limit our loss exposure by, among other things, writing a number of our
reinsurance contracts on an excess of loss basis, adhering to maximum limitations
on reinsurance written in defined geographical zones, limiting program size for
each client and prudently underwriting each program written. In addition, in
the case of proportional treaties, we generally seek to use per occurrence
limitations or loss ratio caps to limit the impact of losses from any one
event. We cannot be sure that all of these loss limitation methods will have
the precise risk management impact intended. For instance, although we also
seek to limit our loss exposure by geographic diversification, geographic zone
limitations involve significant underwriting judgments, including as to the
determination of the area of the zones and the inclusion of a particular policy
within a particular zone’s limits. Underwriting involves the exercise of
considerable judgment and the making of important assumptions about matters
that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which
historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient
guidance. The failure of any of the risk management strategies that we employ
could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of
operations. Also, we cannot assure you that various provisions of our policies,
such as limitations or exclusions from coverage or choice of forum, will be
enforceable in the manner that we intend and disputes relating to coverage and
choice of legal forum may arise, which could materially adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations.

If actual claims exceed
our loss reserves, our financial results could be adversely affected.

          Our
results of operations and financial condition depend upon our ability to assess
accurately the potential losses associated with the risks that we insure and
reinsure. We establish reserves for unpaid losses and loss adjustment

32




expense
(“LAE”) liabilities, which are estimates of future payments of reported and
unreported claims for losses and related expenses with respect to insured
events that have occurred. The process of establishing reserves for property
and casualty claims can be complex and is subject to considerable variability
as it requires the use of informed estimates and judgments. Actuarial estimates
of unpaid loss and LAE liabilities are subject to potential errors of
estimation, which could be significant, due to the fact that the ultimate
disposition of claims incurred prior to the date of such estimation, whether
reported or not, is subject to the outcome of events that have not yet
occurred. Examples of these events include the accuracy of the factual
information on which the estimates were based, especially as this develops,
jury decisions, court interpretations, legislative changes, changes in the
medical condition of claimants, public attitudes, and economic conditions such
as inflation. Any estimate of future costs is subject to the inherent
limitation on the ability to predict the aggregate course of future events. It
should therefore be expected that the actual emergence of loss and LAE liabilities
will vary, perhaps materially, from any estimate. Similarly, the actual
emergence of claims for life business may vary from the assumptions underlying
the policy benefit reserves, in particular, the future mortality improvements
on the blocks of in-payment annuities. We have an actuarial staff in each of
our operating segments that regularly evaluates the levels of loss reserves,
taking into consideration factors that may impact the ultimate losses incurred.
Any such evaluation could result in future changes in estimates of losses or
reinsurance recoverable and would be reflected in our results of operations in
the period in which the estimates are changed. Losses and loss expenses, to the
extent that they exceed the applicable reserves, are charged to income as
incurred. The reserve for unpaid losses and loss expenses represents the
estimated ultimate losses and loss expenses less paid losses and loss expenses,
and comprises case reserves and incurred but not reported loss reserves
(“IBNR”). During the loss settlement period, which can span many years in
duration for casualty business, additional facts regarding individual claims
and trends often will become known and case reserves may be adjusted by
allocation from IBNR without any change in the overall reserve. In addition,
application of statistical and actuarial methods may require the adjustment of
the overall reserves upward or downward from time to time. Accordingly, the
ultimate settlement of losses may be significantly greater than or less than reported
loss and loss expense reserves.

Operational risks,
including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business.

          Operational
risk and losses can result from, among other things, fraud, errors, failure to
document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization,
failure to comply with regulatory requirements, information technology
failures, or external events.

          We
believe that our modeling, underwriting and information technology and
application systems are critical to our business. Moreover, our information
technology and application systems have been an important part of our
underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. We have also
licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that
we will have access to these, or comparable, service providers, or that our
information technology or application systems will continue to operate as
intended. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information
technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm
to our reputation or increased expense.

          In
particular, we have outsourced the day-to-day management, custody and
record-keeping of our investment portfolio to third-party managers and
custodians that we believe to be reputable. A major defect in those investment
managers’ investment management strategy, information and technology systems,
internal controls or decision-making could result in management distraction
and/or significant financial loss. A major defect in custodian internal
controls or information and technology systems could result in management
distraction or significant financial loss.

          We
believe appropriate controls and mitigation procedures are in place to prevent
significant risk of defect in our internal controls, information technology,
application systems, investment management and custody and record-keeping, but
internal controls provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance as to the
absence of errors or irregularities and any ineffectiveness of such controls
and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business.

The effects of
emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain.

          As
industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental
conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge.
These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending cover-

33




age beyond our
underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some
instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have
issued the insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes.
For example, our actual losses may vary materially from our current estimate of
the loss based on a number of factors, including receipt of additional
information from insureds or brokers, the attribution of losses to coverages
that had not previously been considered as exposed and inflation in repair
costs due to additional demand for labor and materials. As a result, the full
extent of liability under an insurance or reinsurance contract may not be known
for many years after such contract is issued and a loss occurs.

We may require
additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us on
satisfactory terms, or at all.

          Our
future capital requirements depend on many factors, including our ability to
write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at
levels sufficient to cover our losses. To the extent that the funds generated
by our ongoing operations are insufficient to fund future operating
requirements and cover claim payments, we may need to raise additional funds
through financings or curtail our growth and reduce our assets. Any future
equity or debt financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to
us, if at all. Any future equity financings could be dilutive to our existing
shareholders or could result in the issuance of securities that have rights, preferences
and privileges that are senior to those of our other securities. Our inability
to obtain adequate capital could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial condition and results of operations.

We may be unable to
purchase reinsurance and, even if we are able to successfully purchase
reinsurance, we are subject to the possibility of uncollectability.

          We
purchase reinsurance for our own account in order to mitigate the volatility
that losses impose on our financial condition. Our clients purchase reinsurance
from us to cover part of the risk originally written by them. Retrocessional
reinsurance involves a reinsurer ceding to another reinsurer, the
retrocessionaire, all or part of the reinsurance that the first reinsurer has assumed.
Reinsurance, including retrocessional reinsurance, does not legally discharge
the ceding company from its liability with respect to its obligations to its
insureds or reinsureds. A reinsurer’s or retrocessionaire’s insolvency,
inability or refusal to make timely payments under the terms of its agreements
with us, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on us because we
remain liable to our insureds and reinsureds. At December 31, 2006, we had
approximately $6.1 billion of reinsurance recoverables and reinsurance balances
receivable, net of reserves for uncollectible recoverables. For further
information regarding our reinsurance exposure, see Item 7, “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

          From
time to time, market conditions may limit or prevent us from obtaining the
types and amounts of reinsurance that we consider adequate for our business
needs such that we may not be able to obtain reinsurance or retroces-sional
reinsurance from entities with satisfactory creditworthiness in amounts that we
deem desirable or on terms that we deem appropriate or acceptable.

Since we depend on a
few brokers for a large portion of our revenues, loss of business provided by
any one of them could adversely affect us.

          We
market our insurance and reinsurance products worldwide primarily through
insurance and reinsurance brokers. Marsh & McLennan Companies and AON
Corporation and their respective subsidiaries provided approximately 18% and
16%, respectively, of our gross written premiums from general operations for
the year ended December 31, 2006. Loss of all or a substantial portion of the
business provided by one or more of these brokers could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

Our reliance on
brokers subjects us to credit risk.

          In
certain jurisdictions, when an insured or ceding insurer pays premiums for
policies of insurance or contracts of reinsurance to brokers for further
payment to us, such premiums might be considered to have been paid and the
insured or ceding insurer will no longer be liable to us for such amounts,
whether or not we have actually received the premiums from the broker. In
addition, in accordance with industry practice, we generally pay amounts owed on
claims under our reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers, in turn,
pay these amounts over to the clients that

34




have purchased
reinsurance from us. Although the law is unsettled and depends upon the facts
and circumstances of the particular case, in some jurisdictions, if a broker
fails to make such a claims payment to the insured or ceding insurer, we might
remain liable to the insured or ceding insurer for that non-payment.
Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with the brokers
with whom we transact business. Due to the unsettled and fact-specific nature
of the law governing these types of scenarios, we are unable to quantify our
exposure to this risk. To date, we have not experienced any material losses
related to such credit risks.

Our investment
performance may adversely affect our financial results and ability to conduct
business.

          Our
assets are invested by a number of professional investment advisory management
firms under the direction of our management team in accordance, in general,
with detailed investment guidelines set by us. Although our investment policies
stress diversification of risks, conservation of principal and liquidity, our
investments are subject to market-wide risks and fluctuations, as well as to
risks inherent in particular securities. Investment losses could significantly
decrease our asset base, thereby adversely affecting our ability to conduct
business and pay claims.

We are exposed to
significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest rates, credit
spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange rates which may adversely affect
our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.

          We
are exposed to significant capital markets risk related to changes in interest
rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. If
significant, declines in equity prices, changes in interest rates, changes in
credit spreads and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against
the U.S. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse
effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash
flows.

          Our
exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash
flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. Our investment
portfolio contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income
securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from
governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and
political conditions and other factors beyond our control. A rise in interest
rates would reduce the net unrealized gain position of our investment
portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds
reinvested. Conversely, a decline in interest rates would increase the net
unrealized gain position of our investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of
return on assets reinvested. Our mitigation efforts with respect to interest
rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio
with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is
approximately equal to the duration of estimated future paid liabilities.
However, our estimate of future paid liabilities may be inaccurate and we may
be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to
cover liabilities. Although we take measures to manage the economic risks of
investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to
mitigate the interest rate risk of our assets relative to our liabilities.

          Our
fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in high quality, investment-grade
securities. However, as part of our risk asset portfolio, we invest in below
investment-grade high yield fixed income securities. These securities, which
pay a higher rate of interest, also have a higher degree of credit or default
risk. These securities may also be less liquid in times of economic weakness or
market disruptions. While we have put in place procedures to monitor the credit
risk and liquidity of our invested assets, it is possible that, in periods of
economic weakness, we may experience default losses in our portfolio. This may
result in a reduction of net income, capital and cash flows.

          We
invest a portion of our portfolio in common stock or equity-related securities
such as hedge funds and private equity. The value of these assets fluctuates
with equity markets. In times of economic weakness, the market value and
liquidity of these assets may decline, and may impact net income, capital, and
cash flows. In addition, certain of the products offered by our Life operations
segment offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure
should equity markets decline.

          The
functional currencies of the Company’s principal insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries include the U.S. dollar, U.K. sterling, the Euro, the Swiss Franc,
and the Canadian dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations relative to the functional
currencies may materially impact our financial position and results of
operations. Many of our non-U.S. subsidiaries maintain both assets and
liabilities in currencies different to their functional currency, which exposes
us to

35




changes in
currency exchange rates. In addition, locally-required capital levels are
invested in local currencies in order to satisfy regulatory requirements and to
support local insurance operations regardless of currency fluctuations. Foreign
exchange rate risk is reviewed as part of our risk management process. While we
utilize derivative instruments such as futures, options and foreign currency
forward contracts to, among other things, manage our foreign currency exposure,
it is possible that these instruments will not effectively mitigate all or a
substantial portion of our foreign exchange rate risk.

Current legal and
regulatory activities relating to insurance brokers and agents, contingent
commissions, certain finite risk reinsurance products and related products,
and the municipal guaranteed investment contract market could adversely affect
our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition
lawsuits, including putative class action lawsuits, have been filed against us
by policyholders and security holders the ultimate outcome of which could have
a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, future
operating results and/or liquidity.

          Contingent
commission arrangements and finite-risk reinsurance have been a focus of
investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), the
U.S. Attorney’s Offices, certain state Attorneys General and insurance
departments.

          Due
to various governmental investigations into contingent commission practices,
various market participants have modified or eliminated acquisition expenses
formerly arising from Placement Service Agreements (“PSAs”). As a result, it is
possible that policy commissions or brokerage that we pay may increase in the
future and/or that different forms of contingent commissions will develop in
the future. Any such additional expense could have a material adverse effect on
our financial conditions or results.

          In
May and June of 2005, we received a subpoena from the SEC and a grand jury
subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York,
respectively, in each case for documents and information relating to certain
finite risk and loss mitigation insurance products. We are fully cooperating
with, and responding to, these requests. Accounting issues relating to, and/or
regulatory concern about the use of, finite-risk reinsurance and certain loss
mitigation products could cause the market for the purchase or sale of such
products to shrink or cease, which could adversely affect us.

          A
subsidiary of the Company received a grand jury subpoena from the Antitrust
Division of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York
seeking documents in connection with an investigation into the municipal
guaranteed investment contract (“GIC”) market and related products. Another
subsidiary of the Company received a subpoena from the SEC as part of its
investigation entitled In the Matter of Certain GIC Brokers. The Company is
fully cooperating with these investigations. It is possible that these
investigations could have an adverse effect on the sale of such products in the
market and thus have an adverse effect on our sales of such products.

          At
this time, we are unable to predict the potential effects, if any, that these
investigations may have upon us, the insurance and reinsurance markets in
general or industry and reinsurance business practices or what, if any, changes
may be made to laws and regulations regarding the industry. Any of the
foregoing could also result in litigation or otherwise adversely affect our
business, financial condition, or results of operations.

          The
Company is subject to lawsuits and arbitrations in the regular course of its
business. In addition, lawsuits have been filed against the Company as detailed
in “Legal Proceedings.” The Company believes that the ultimate outcome
of all outstanding litigation and arbitration will not have a material adverse
effect on its consolidated financial condition, operating results and/or liquidity,
although an adverse resolution of one or more of these items could have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations in a particular fiscal
quarter or year. 

The loss of one or
more key executives or the inability to attract and retain qualified personnel
could adversely affect our ability to conduct business.

          Our
success depends on our ability to retain the services of our existing key
executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the
future. The loss of the services of any of our key executives or the inability
to hire

36




and retain
other highly qualified personnel in the future could adversely affect our
ability to conduct our business. In addition, we do not maintain key man life
insurance policies with respect to our employees.

          Many
of our senior executives working in Bermuda are not Bermudian and our success
may depend in part on the continued services of key employees in Bermuda. Under
Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians and holders of
permanent resident certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in
Bermuda without an appropriate governmental work permit. A work permit may be
granted or renewed by the Bermuda government for a specific period of time,
upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian (or spouse
of a Bermudian or holder of a permanent resident certificate) is available who
meets the minimum standards reasonably required by an employer with respect to
a certain position. The government of Bermuda places a six-year term limit on
individuals with work permits, subject to certain exemptions for key employees.
No assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued,
renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term.

Because we are a
holding company, if our subsidiaries do not make dividend and other payments to
us, we may not be able to pay dividends or make payments on our debt securities
and other obligations.

          As
a holding company with no direct operations or significant assets other than
the capital stock of our subsidiaries, we rely on investment income, cash
dividends and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to make principal
and interest payments on our debt, to pay operating expenses and common and
preferred shareholder dividends and to pay other obligations of ours that may
arise from time to time. We expect future investment income, dividends and
other permitted payments from these subsidiaries to be our principal source of
funds to pay such expenses, preferred and common stock dividends and
obligations. The payment of dividends to us by our insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries is limited under Bermuda laws and certain insurance statutes of
various states in the United States in which our insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries are licensed to transact business.

          Our
U.S. insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to state regulatory
restrictions that generally require cash dividend to be paid only out of earned
statutory surplus. Further, the amount payable without the prior approval of
the applicable state insurance department is generally limited to the greater
of 10% of policyholders’ surplus or statutory capital, or 100% of the
subsidiary’s prior year statutory net income. In addition, Bermuda insurance
laws and regulations (i) require our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to
maintain certain minimum solvency margins and minimum liquidity ratios, (ii)
prohibit dividends that would result in a breach of these requirements, and
(iii) limit the amount by which we can reduce surplus without prior approval
from the Bermuda Monetary Authority.

          In
addition, the ability of our insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries to pay
dividends could be constrained by our dependence on financial strength ratings
from independent rating agencies. Our ratings from these agencies depend to a
large extent on the capitalization levels of our insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries. Any such restriction on our insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance and
reinsurance subsidiaries may not always be able to, or may not, pay preferred
and common stock dividends to us sufficient to make our debt payments and pay
our operating expenses, shareholder dividends or other obligations.

Risks Related to Our Industry

The insurance and
reinsurance industries are historically cyclical and we may experience periods
with excess underwriting capacity and unfavorable premium rates.

          The
insurance and reinsurance industries have historically been cyclical,
characterized by periods of intense price competition due to excess
underwriting capacity as well as periods when shortages of capacity permitted
favorable premium levels. An increase in premium levels is often offset by an
increasing supply of insurance and reinsurance capacity, either by capital
provided by new entrants or by the commitment of additional capital by existing
insurers or reinsurers, which may cause prices to decrease. Either of these
factors could lead to a significant reduction in premium rates, less favorable
policy terms and conditions and fewer submissions for our underwriting
services. In

37




addition to
these considerations, changes in the frequency and severity of losses suffered
by insureds and insurers may affect the cycles of the insurance and reinsurance
industries significantly.

Competition in the
insurance and reinsurance industries could reduce our operating margins.

          The
insurance and reinsurance industries are highly competitive. We compete on an
international and regional basis with major U.S., Bermudian, European and other
international insurers and reinsurers and with underwriting syndicates, some of
which have greater financial and management resources than we do. We also
compete with new companies that continue to be formed to enter the insurance
and reinsurance markets. In addition, capital market participants have recently
created alternative products that are intended to compete with reinsurance
products. Increased competition could result in fewer submissions, lower
premium rates and less favorable policy terms and conditions, which could
reduce our margins.

Unanticipated losses
from terrorism and uncertainty surrounding the future of the Terrorism Risk
Insurance Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations.

          In
response to the tightening of supply in certain insurance and reinsurance
markets resulting from, among other things, the September 11 event, TRIA was
enacted in 2002 to ensure the availability of commercial insurance coverage for
certain terrorist acts in the U.S.. This law established a federal assistance
program through the end of 2005 (as amended, through the end of 2007) to help
the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to
future terrorism-related losses and required that coverage for terrorist acts
be offered by insurers. TRIA was originally scheduled to expire at the end of
2005, but was extended in December 2005 for an additional two years. The
extended bill reduced the protections of the act. For example, as extended, the
insurer deductible was increased from 15% in 2005 to 17.5% in 2006 and 20% in
2007. In addition, the extended TRIA established a new program trigger under
which Federal compensation will become available only if aggregate insured
losses sustained by all insurers exceed $50 million from a certified act of
terrorism occurring after March 31, 2006 and $100 million for losses resulting
from a certified act which occurs on or after January 1, 2007. We believe TRIA
has been an effective mechanism to assist policyholders and industry
participants with the extreme contingent losses that might be caused by acts of
terrorism. We cannot assure you that TRIA will be extended beyond 2007, and its
expiration could have an adverse effect on our clients, industry or us.

Potential government
intervention in our industry as a result of recent events and instability in
the marketplace for insurance products could hinder our flexibility and
negatively affect the business opportunities that may be available to us in the
market.

          Government
intervention and the possibility of future government intervention have created
uncertainty in the insurance and reinsurance markets. Government regulators are
generally concerned with the protection of policyholders to the exclusion of
other constituencies, including shareholders of insurers and reinsurers. While
we cannot predict the exact nature, timing or scope of possible governmental
initiatives, such proposals could adversely affect our business by, among other
things:




 


 


 




 


•


Providing
  insurance and reinsurance capacity in markets and to consumers that we
  target, e.g., the creation or expansion of a state or federal catastrophe
  funds such as those in Florida;




 


 


 




 


•


Requiring
  our participation in industry pools and guaranty associations;




 


 


 




 


•


Expanding
  the scope of coverage under existing policies, e.g., following large
  disasters such as Hurricanes Katrina and Rita;




 


 


 




 


•


Regulating
  the terms of insurance and reinsurance policies; or




 


 


 




 


•


Disproportionately
  benefiting the companies of one country over those of another.




38




          The
insurance industry is also affected by political, judicial and legal
developments that may create new and expanded theories of liability, which may
result in unexpected claims frequency & severity and delays or
cancellations of products and services by insureds, insurers and reinsurers
which could adversely affect our business.

Consolidation in the
insurance industry could adversely impact us.

          Insurance
industry participants may seek to expand through mergers and acquisitions.
Continued consolidation within the insurance industry will further enhance the
already competitive underwriting environment as we would likely experience more
robust competition from larger, better capitalized competitors. These
consolidated entities may use their enhanced market power and broader capital
base to negotiate price reductions for our products and services, and reduce
their use of reinsurance, and as such, we may experience rate declines and
possibly write less business.

Risks Related to Regulation

The regulatory
regimes under which we operate, and potential changes thereto, could have a
material adverse effect on our business.

          Our
insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries operate in 28 countries around the world
as well as in all 50 U.S. states. Our operations in each of these jurisdictions
are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and
regulations of the jurisdictions in which our insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries are domiciled require, among other things, that these subsidiaries
maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet
solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of their financial
condition and restrict payments of dividends and reductions of capital.
Statutes, regulations and policies that our insurance and reinsurance
subsidiaries are subject to may also restrict the ability of these subsidiaries
to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make certain investments and
distribute funds.

          In
recent years, the U.S. insurance regulatory framework has come under increased
federal scrutiny. In addition, some state legislatures have considered or
enacted laws that may alter or increase state regulation of insurance and
reinsurance companies and holding companies. Moreover, the National Association
of Insurance Commissioners, which is the organization of insurance regulators
from the 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and the four U.S.
territories, as well as state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing
laws and regulations.

          We
may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain desired exemptions from,
revised statutes, regulations and policies that govern the conduct of our
business. Failure to comply with, or to obtain desired authorizations and/or
exemptions under, any applicable laws could result in restrictions on our
ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more
of the jurisdictions in which we operate and could subject us to fines and
other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which our
insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject, or in the interpretations
thereof by enforcement or regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse
effect on our business.

If our Bermuda
operating subsidiaries become subject to insurance statutes and regulations in
jurisdictions other than Bermuda or if there is a change in Bermuda law or
regulations or the application of Bermuda law or regulations, there could be a
significant and negative impact on our business.

          XL
Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd, two of our wholly-owned operating
subsidiaries, are registered Bermuda Class 4 insurers. As such, they are
subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. Bermuda insurance statutes
and the regulations and policies of the Bermuda Monetary Authority require XL
Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd to, among other things:




 


 


 




 


•


maintain a minimum
  level of capital and surplus;




 


 


 




 


•


maintain
  solvency margins and liquidity ratios; 




 


 


 




 


•


restrict
  dividends and distributions;




39







 


 


 




 


•


obtain prior
  approval regarding the ownership and transfer of shares;




 


 


 




 


•


maintain a
  principal office and appoint and maintain a principal representative in
  Bermuda;




 


 


 




 


•


file an
  annual statutory financial return; and




 


 


 




 


•


allow for
  the performance of certain periodic examinations of XL Insurance (Bermuda)
  Ltd and XL Re Ltd and their respective financial conditions.




          These
statutes and regulations may restrict our ability to write insurance and
reinsurance policies, distribute funds and pursue our investment strategy.

          We
do not presently intend for XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd to be
admitted to do business in the United States, the United Kingdom or any
jurisdiction other than Bermuda. However, we cannot assure you that insurance
regulators in the United States, the United Kingdom or elsewhere will not
review the activities of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd or XL Re Ltd, their
respective subsidiaries or their agents and claim that XL Insurance (Bermuda)
Ltd or XL Re Ltd is subject to such jurisdiction’s licensing requirements. If
any such claim is successful and XL Insurance
(Bermuda) Ltd or XL Re Ltd must obtain licenses in a jurisdiction other than
Bermuda, we may be subject to taxation in such jurisdiction.


          In
addition, XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd are subject to indirect
regulatory requirements imposed by jurisdictions that may limit their ability
to provide insurance or reinsurance to that jurisdiction’s domestic insurers or
reinsurers. For example, the ability of XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re
Ltd to write insurance or reinsurance may be subject, in certain cases, to a
country’s limits on how much reinsurance can be purchased from non-domestic
reinsurers or requirements that such non-domestic reinsurers collateralize
their payment obligations to domestic ceding companies. If we are unable to
collateralize or provide other credit support for these reinsurance clients on
commercially reasonable terms, we could be limited in our ability to write
business for some of our clients. Proposed legislation and regulations may have
the effect of imposing additional requirements upon, or restricting the market
for, non-domestic insurers or reinsurers with whom domestic companies place
business.

          Generally,
Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations applicable to XL Insurance (Bermuda)
Ltd and XL Re Ltd are less restrictive than those that would be applicable if
they were governed by the laws of any state in the United States. If in the
future we become subject to any insurance laws of the United States or any
state thereof or of any other jurisdiction, we cannot assure you that we would
be in compliance with such laws or that complying with such laws would not have
a significant and negative effect on our business.

          The
process of obtaining licenses is very time consuming and costly and XL
Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd may not be able to become licensed in
jurisdictions other than Bermuda should we choose to do so. The modification of
the conduct of our business that would result if we were required or chose to
become licensed in certain jurisdictions could significantly and negatively
affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our
inability to comply with insurance statutes and regulations could significantly
and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by
limiting our ability to conduct business as well as subjecting us to penalties
and fines.

          Because
XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and XL Re Ltd are Bermuda companies, they are
subject to changes in Bermuda law and regulation that may have an adverse
impact on our operations, including through the imposition of tax liability or
increased regulatory supervision. In addition, XL Insurance (Bermuda) Ltd and
XL Re Ltd will be exposed to any changes in the political environment in
Bermuda, including, without limitation, changes as a result of the independence
issues currently being discussed in Bermuda. The Bermuda insurance and
reinsurance regulatory framework recently has become subject to increased
scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom. While we cannot
predict the future impact on our operations of changes in the laws and
regulation to which we are or may become subject, any such changes could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of
operations.

40




Changes in current
accounting practices and future pronouncements may materially impact our
reported financial results.

          Unanticipated
developments in accounting practices may require us to incur considerable additional
expenses to comply with such developments, particularly if we are required to
    prepare information relating to prior periods for comparative purposes or
    to apply the new requirements retroactively. The impact of changes in current
    accounting practices and future pronouncements cannot be predicted but may
    affect the calculation of net income, net equity, and other relevant financial
    statement line items. In particular, recent guidance and ongoing projects
    put in place by standard setters globally have indicated a possible move
    away from the current insurance accounting models toward more “fair
    value” based
    models which could introduce significant volatility in the earnings of insurance
    industry participants.

          Furthermore,
rules relating to certain accounting practices in the financial guarantee
insurance and reinsurance industry are currently being reviewed by applicable
regulatory bodies and any changes required by that review could have a material
effect on the reported operating results and financial condition of the
industry or particular market participants, including SCA.

          For
further details regarding risks related to financial guaranty insurance and
reinsurance, refer to SCA’s reports filed with the SEC.

Risks Related to Taxation

We and our Bermuda
insurance subsidiaries may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after March 28,
2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations.

          We
and our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries have received from the Ministry of
Finance in Bermuda exemptions from any Bermuda taxes that might be imposed on
profits, income or any capital asset, gain or appreciation until March 28,
2016. The exemptions are subject to the proviso that they are not construed so
as to prevent the application of any tax or duty to such persons as are
ordinarily resident in Bermuda (we and our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are
not so currently designated) and to prevent the application of any tax payable
in accordance with the provisions of The Land Tax Act 1967 or otherwise payable
in relation to the land leased to us and our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries.
We, as a permit company under The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, have received
similar exemptions, which are effective until March 28, 2016. We and our
Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are required to pay certain annual Bermuda
government fees and certain business fees as an insurer under The Insurance Act
1978 of Bermuda. Currently there is no Bermuda withholding tax on dividends
paid by our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries to us. Given the limited duration of
the Ministry of Finance’s assurance, we cannot be certain that we or our
Bermuda insurance subsidiaries will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after
March 28, 2016. Such taxation could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

We may become
subject to taxes in the Cayman Islands after June 2, 2018, which may have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.

          Under
current Cayman Islands law, we are not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman
Islands on our income or gains. We have received an undertaking from the
Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands pursuant to the provisions of the Tax
Concessions Law, as amended, that until June 2, 2018, (i) no subsequently
enacted law imposing any tax on profits, income, gains or appreciation shall
apply to us and (ii) no such tax and no tax in the nature of an estate duty or
an inheritance tax shall be payable on any of our ordinary shares, debentures
or other obligations. Under current law, no tax will be payable on the transfer
or other disposition of our ordinary shares. The Cayman Islands currently
impose stamp duties on certain categories of documents; however, our current
operations do not involve the payment of stamp duties in any material amount.
The Cayman Islands also currently impose an annual corporate fee upon all
exempted companies incorporated in the Cayman Islands. Given the limited
duration of the undertaking from the Governor-in-Council of the Cayman Islands,
we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Cayman Islands tax
after June 2, 2018. Such taxation could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations.

41




We and our Bermuda
insurance subsidiaries may become subject to U.S. tax, which may have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.

          We
take the position that neither we nor any of our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries
are engaged in a U.S. trade or business through a U.S. permanent establishment.
Accordingly, we take the position that none of our Bermuda insurance
subsidiaries should be subject to U.S. tax (other than U.S. excise tax on
insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring
U.S. risks and U.S. withholding tax on some types of U.S. source investment
income). However, because there is considerable uncertainty as to the
activities that constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the
United States, we cannot be certain that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the
“IRS”) will not contend successfully that we or any of our Bermuda insurance
subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business in the United States. If we or
any of our Bermuda insurance subsidiaries were considered to be engaged in a
trade or business in the United States, any such entity could be subject to
U.S. corporate income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its
earnings effectively connected to such U.S. business, in which case our
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.

The Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development is considering measures that might change
the manner in which we are taxed.

          On
June 27, 2005 the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(“OECD”) issued a discussion draft, “Attribution of Profits to a Permanent
Establishment—Release of Discussion Draft of Part IV (Insurance)” (the
“Draft”), which constitutes the fourth and final part of the report on OECD’s
project to establish a broad consensus regarding the interpretation and
practical application of Article 7 (“Article 7”) of the OECD Model Tax
Convention on Income and on Capital. Article 7 sets forth international tax
principles for attributing profits to a permanent establishment and forms the
basis of an extensive network of bilateral income tax treaties between OECD
member countries and between many OECD member and non-member countries. Section
C of the Draft discusses the application of the 1995 OECD Transfer Pricing
Guidelines to insurance business conducted between associated enterprises and,
if adopted in its current form, might change the manner in which we are taxed
and could therefore impact our future after-tax profitability. We cannot
predict the effect of any such changes. On December 21 2006, the OECD published
new versions of Parts I, II and III. They also announced that work on Part IV
is ongoing and that the intention is to publish a new version of Part IV as
soon as possible. Once finalized, the conclusions of Parts I-IV of the report
will be implemented through revision of the Commentary on Article 7 and/or
Article 7 itself.

If you acquire ten
percent or more of XL Capital Ltd’s shares, you may be subject to taxation
under the “controlled foreign corporation” (the CFC) rules.

          Under
certain circumstances, a U.S. person who owns ten percent or more of the voting
power of a foreign corporation that is a CFC (a foreign corporation in which
ten percent U.S. shareholders own more than 50 percent of the voting power of
the foreign corporation or more than 25 percent of a foreign insurance company)
for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year must
include in gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such “10 percent
U.S. Shareholder’s” pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the
subpart F income is not distributed to such 10 percent U.S. Shareholder if such
10 percent U.S. Shareholder owns (directly or indirectly through foreign
entities) any of our shares on the last day of our taxable year. “Subpart F
income” of a foreign insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal
holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive
income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting
and investment income) attributable to the insurance of risks situated outside
the CFC’s country of incorporation.

          We
believe that because of the dispersion of our share ownership, provisions in
our organizational documents that limit voting power and other factors, no U.S.
Person or U.S. Partnership who acquires our shares directly or indirectly
through one or more foreign entities should be required to include our “subpart
F income” in income under the CFC rules of the Code. It is possible, however,
that the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of these provisions and that a
court could sustain such a challenge, in which case your investment could be
materially adversely affected, if you own ten percent or more of our stock.

42




U.S. Persons who
hold shares will be subject to adverse tax consequences if we are considered to
be a Passive Foreign Investment Company (PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax
purposes.

          If
the Company is considered a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S.
Person who owns any shares of the Company will be subject to adverse tax
consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than
might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to tax on amounts in advance
of when tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be
materially adversely affected. In addition, if the Company were considered a
PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning shares, such individual’s
heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the shares
which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We
believe that we are not, have not been, and currently do not expect to become,
a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We cannot assure you, however,
that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. If we were considered a PFIC, it
could have material adverse tax consequences for an investor that is subject to
U.S. federal income taxation. There are currently no regulations regarding the
application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or
pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We
cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on an investor
that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation.

There is U.S. income
tax risk associated with reinsurance between U.S. insurance companies and their
Bermuda affiliates.

          Congress
has periodically considered legislation intended to eliminate certain perceived
tax advantages of Bermuda insurance companies and U.S. insurance companies
having Bermuda affiliates, including perceived tax benefits resulting
principally from reinsurance between or among U.S. insurance companies and
their Bermuda affiliates. In this regard, Section 845 of the Code was amended
in 2004 to permit the IRS to reallocate, recharacterize or adjust items of
income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement
between related parties to reflect the proper “source, character and amount”
for each item (in contrast to prior law, which only covered “source and
character”). If the IRS were to successfully challenge our reinsurance
arrangements under Section 845, our financial condition and results of
operations could be materially adversely affected.

There are U.S.
income tax risks associated with the related person insurance income of our
non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries.

          If
(i) the related person insurance income, which we refer to as “RPII,” of any
one of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries were to equal or exceed 20% of that
subsidiary’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and (ii) U.S. persons
were treated as owning 25% or more of the subsidiary’s stock (by vote or value),
a U.S. person who owns any ordinary shares, directly or indirectly, on the last
day of such taxable year on which the 25% threshold is met would be required to
include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes that person’s
ratable share of that subsidiary’s RPII for the taxable year, determined as if
that RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. holders at that date,
regardless of whether that income is distributed. The amount of RPII earned by
a subsidiary (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct
or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of
shares of that subsidiary or any person related to that holder) will depend on
a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly
insured or reinsured by that subsidiary. Although we do not believe that the
20% threshold will be met in respect of any of our non-U.S. insurance
subsidiaries, some of the factors that may affect the result in any period may
be beyond our control. Consequently, we cannot assure you that we will not
exceed the RPII threshold in any taxable year.

          The
RPII rules provide that if a holder who is a U.S. person disposes of shares in
a non-U.S. insurance corporation that had RPII (even if the 20% threshold was
not met) and met the 25% threshold at any time during the five-year period
ending on the date of disposition, and the holder owned any stock at such time,
any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the
extent of the holder’s share (taking into account certain rules for determining
a U.S. holder’s share of RPII) of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and
profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the
shares (possibly whether or not those earnings and profits are attributable to
RPII). In addition, such a shareholder will be required to comply with
specified reporting requirements, regardless

43




of the amount
of shares owned. We believe that these rules should not apply to dispositions
of our ordinary shares because the Company is not itself directly engaged in
the insurance business. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not
successfully assert that these rules apply to dispositions of our ordinary
shares.

Changes in U.S. tax
law might adversely affect an investment in our shares.

          The
tax treatment of non-U.S. companies and their U.S. and non-U.S. insurance
subsidiaries has been the subject of Congressional discussion and legislative
proposals. For example, one legislative proposal would impose additional limits
on the deductibility of interest by foreign-owned U.S. corporations. Another
legislative proposal would treat a non-U.S. corporation as a U.S. corporation
for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it were considered to be primarily
managed and controlled in the U.S. We cannot assure you that future legislative
action will not increase the amount of U.S. tax payable by us. If this happens,
our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected.

          Additionally,
the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations, including those regarding
whether a company is engaged in a trade or business (or has a permanent
establishment) within the United States or is a PFIC, or whether U.S. holders
would be required to include in their gross income “subpart F income” or the
RPII of a CFC, are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There
are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to
insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed
form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules
may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such
regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will
have a retroactive effect.

Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares

The price and
trading volume of our ordinary shares may be subject to significant
fluctuations.

          The
price and trading volume of our ordinary shares may fluctuate in response to a
number of events and factors, including:




 


 


 




 


•


catastrophes
  or other events that may impact or be perceived by investors as impacting the
  insurance and reinsurance industries;




 


 


 




 


•


quarterly
  variations in our operating results;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in
  the market’s expectations about our future operating results;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in
  financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning us
  or the insurance and reinsurance industries generally;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in
  the credit ratings assigned to our claims-paying ability by S&P, A.M.
  Best or other independent rating agencies;




 


 


 




 


•


operating
  and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem
  comparable to us;




 


 


 




 


•


news reports
  relating to our business and trends in the markets in which we operate;




 


 


 




 


•


changes in
  the laws and regulations affecting our business;




 


 


 




 


•


acquisitions
  and financings by us or others in our industry; and




 


 


 




 


•


sales or
  acquisitions of a substantial number of our ordinary shares by our directors
  and executive officers or significant shareholders, or the perception that
  such sales could occur.




          In
addition, in recent years stock markets around the world have experienced
extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant
effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons
unrelated to their operating performance. These broad market fluctuations may
materially adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our
operating results.

44




Provisions in our
Articles of Association may reduce the voting rights of our ordinary shares.

          Our
Articles of Association generally provide that shareholders have one vote for each
ordinary share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative
basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, the voting rights exercisable
by a shareholder may be limited so that certain persons or groups are not
deemed to hold 10% or more of the voting power conferred by our ordinary
shares. Under these limitations, some shareholders may have less than one vote
for each ordinary share held by them. Moreover, these limitations could have
the effect of reducing the voting power of some shareholders who would not
otherwise be subject to such limitations by virtue of their direct share
ownership.

Provisions in our
Articles of Association may restrict the ownership and transfer of our ordinary
shares.

          Our
Articles of Association provide that our Board of Directors shall decline to
register a transfer of shares if it appears to our Board of Directors, whether
before or after such transfer, that the effect of such transfer would be to
increase the number of shares owned or controlled by any person to 10% or more
of any class of voting shares, the total issued shares of XL Capital Ltd or the
voting power of XL Capital Ltd. In addition, our Articles of Association also
provide that if, and for so long as, the votes conferred on any person by the
ownership or control of our shares (including any preference ordinary shares)
constitute 10% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, each such
share held by such person shall confer only a fraction of the vote that would
otherwise be conferred, as determined by the formula described in our Articles
of Association, and such voting rights will continue to be readjusted until no
shareholder’s voting rights exceed this limitation as a result of such
reduction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, our Board of Directors may make such
final adjustments to the aggregate number of votes conferred on any person by
the ownership or control of shares that they consider fair and reasonable, in
the light of all applicable circumstances, to ensure that such votes represent
less than 10% of the aggregate voting power of the votes conferred by all our
issued shares. For these purposes, references to ownership or control of our
shares mean ownership within the meaning of Section 958 of the Code and Section
13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Certain provisions
in our charter documents and Rights Agreement could, among other things, impede
an attempt to replace our directors or to effect a change of control, which
could diminish the value of our ordinary shares.

          Our
articles of association contain provisions that may make it more difficult for
shareholders to replace directors and could delay or prevent a change of
control that a shareholder might consider favorable. These provisions include a
staggered board of directors, limitations on the ability of shareholders to
remove directors, limitations on voting rights and certain transfer
restrictions on our ordinary shares. In addition, certain provisions in our
Rights Agreement could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder
might consider favorable. These provisions may prevent a shareholder from
receiving the benefit of any premium over the market price of our ordinary
shares offered by a bidder in connection with a potential takeover. Even in the
absence of a takeover attempt or an attempt to effect a change in management,
these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our
ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future.
See “Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and
Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” In addition, insurance regulations in
certain jurisdictions may also delay or prevent a change of control or limit
the ability of a shareholder to acquire in excess of specified amounts of our
ordinary shares.

It may be difficult
for you to enforce judgments against XL Capital Ltd or its directors and
executive officers.

          XL
Capital Ltd is incorporated pursuant to the laws of the Cayman Islands and our
principal executive offices are in Bermuda. In addition, certain of our
directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial
portion of our assets and the assets of such directors and officers are located
outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect
service of process within the United States upon those persons or to recover on
judgments of U.S. courts against us or them, including judgments predicated
upon civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. We have been
advised by Cayman counsel that there is doubt as to whether the courts of the
Cayman Islands would enforce:

45







 


 


 




 


•


judgments of
  U.S. courts based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal
  securities laws obtained in actions against XL Capital Ltd or its directors
  and officers who reside outside the United States; or




 


 


 




 


•


original
  actions brought in the Cayman Islands against these persons or XL Capital Ltd
  predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws.




          We
have also been advised that there is no treaty in effect between the United
States and the Cayman Islands providing for such enforcement and there are
grounds upon which Cayman Islands courts may not enforce judgments of United
States courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions,
including some remedies available under U.S. federal securities laws, may not
be allowed in Cayman Islands courts as contrary to public policy.

U.S. persons who own
our ordinary shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than
U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation.

          The
law applicable to companies established in the Cayman Islands, under which we
are governed, differs in certain material respects from laws generally
applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. These differences
include the manner in which directors must disclose transactions in which they
have an interest and their ability to vote notwithstanding a conflict of
interest, the rights of shareholders to bring class action and derivative
lawsuits and the scope of indemnification available to directors and officers.




 


 


 




ITEM 1B