Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Forward-looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as "may," "will," "could," "should," "expect," "believe," "anticipate,"
"estimate," "continue," "plan," "intend," "project" or other similar words. We disclaim any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this document.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS  

 Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced integrated circuits (ICs),
software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (IP) cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. The programmable logic
devices (PLDs) include field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs). These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic
functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in the communications, storage, server,
consumer, automotive, industrial and other markets. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers
(OEMs) by a network of independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management organization. 

 Xilinx
was founded and incorporated in California in February 1984. In April 1990, the Company reincorporated in Delaware. Our corporate facilities and executive offices
are located at 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, California 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com. 


Industry Overview  

 There are three principal types of ICs used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory
devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. Xilinx
develops PLDs, a type of logic device. Alternatives to PLDs include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application specific standard products (ASSPs). These
devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. However, variations in pricing, product performance, reliability,
power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications. 

 PLDs
have a primary advantage over custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs in that they enable faster time-to-market with shorter design cycles. Users of PLDs can
program their design directly into the PLD, using software, thereby allowing users to revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. Since PLDs are programmable, they typically
have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, which are customized with a fixed function during wafer fabrication. Custom gate arrays,
ASICs and ASSPs, however, generally require longer fabrication lead times and higher up-front costs than PLDs. 

 PLDs
are standard components. This means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. As a result, the development cost of PLDs can be
spread over a large number of users. Custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. This involves a high
up-front cost to users. Technology advances are enabling PLD companies to reduce costs considerably, making PLDs an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, ASICs and
ASSPs. 

3




 


 An
overview of typical PLD end market applications for our products is shown in the following table: 







End Markets 
 
Sub-Segments 
 
Applications 





Communications
 
Wireless
 
• 3G/4G Cellular Base Stations
• WiMAX



 
 

Wireline
 

• Metro Area Networks
• FTTx-Passive Optical Networks
• DSL Modems



 
 

Networking
 

• Multi-Service Provisioning Platform (MSPP)
• Switches
• Routers





Storage and Servers
 
Storage
 
• Security and Encryption
• Network Attached Storage



 
 

Servers
 

• High End Servers
• Computer Peripherals



 
 

Office Automation
 

• Copiers
• Printers





Consumer, Automotive, Industrial and Other
 
Consumer
 
• Video Display Systems, Televisions-LCD/PDP
• Digital Video Recorders/Set Top Boxes/IPTV
• Smart Handhelds



 
 

Industrial, Scientific and Medical
 

• Factory Automation
• Medical Imaging
• Test and Measurement Equipment



 
 

Audio Video Broadcast
 

• Cable Head-end Systems
• Production Switchers
• Cameras



 
 

Automotive
 

• Multimedia Systems
• GPS Navigation Systems
• Voice Recognition



 
 

Defense and Aerospace
 

• Satellite Surveillance
• Radar and Sonar Systems
• Secure Communications








Products  

 Integral to the future success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively with respect
to price, functionality and performance. Software design tools, IP cores, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design
specifications into our PLDs. Altogether, these products form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. A brief overview of these products follows. Our product families mentioned in the
table below are not all-inclusive but they comprise the majority of our revenues. They are our newest product families and are currently being designed into our customers' next generation
products. Some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. We operate and track our results in one operating segment for
financial reporting purposes. 

4




 


Product Families  







FPGAs 
 
Date
Introduced 
 
Densities 
 
Process
Technology 
 
Voltage 





Virtex™-5
 
May 2006
 
31K to 330K
Logic Cells
 
65nm
 
1.0v





Virtex-4
 
June 2004
 
12K to 200K
Logic Cells
 
90nm
 
1.2v





Virtex-II Pro
 
March 2002
 
3K to 99K
Logic Cells
 
130nm
 
1.5v





Virtex-II
 
January 2001
 
576 to 104K
Logic Cells
 
150nm
 
1.5v





Virtex-E
 
September 1999
 
1.7K to 73K
Logic Cells
 
180nm
 
1.8v





Spartan™-3E
 
March 2005
 
2.2K to 33.2K
Logic Cells
 
90nm
 
1.2v





Spartan-3
 
April 2003
 
1.7K to 74.9K
Logic Cells
 
90nm
 
1.2v





Spartan-IIE
 
November 2001
 
1.7K to 15.6K
Logic Cells
 
150nm
 
1.8v





Spartan-II
 
January 2000
 
432 to 5.3K
Logic Cells
 
180nm
 
2.5v













CPLDs 
 
Date
Introduced 
 
Densities 
 
Process
Technology 
 
Voltage 





CoolRunner™-II
 
January 2002
 
32 to 512
Macrocells
 
180nm
 
1.8v





CoolRunner
 
August 1999
 
32 to 512
Macrocells
 
350nm
 
3.3v





XC9500XL
 
September 1998
 
36 to 288
Macrocells
 
350nm
 
3.3v









 Virtex FPGAs  



 The Virtex-5 FPGA family is the latest generation Virtex family and the PLD industry's first product family manufactured using
65-nanometer (nm) process technology. The Virtex-5 family consists of four platforms: LX for high-performance logic, LXT for high-performance logic with serial connectivity,
SXT for high-performance digital signal processing (DSP) with serial connectivity and FXT for embedded processing with serial connectivity. Currently, Xilinx is shipping the Virtex-5 LX
platform, with each of the remaining platforms scheduled to roll out over the next 18 months. Compared to previous 90-nanometer Virtex family products, this product family offers
increased performance, density and features, while reducing dynamic power consumption. 

 The
17 device Virtex-4 FPGA family consists of three platforms: LX, SX and FX. Virtex-4 LX FPGAs are optimized for logic-intensive designs, Virtex-4
SX FPGAs are optimized for high-performance DSP, and Virtex-4 FX FPGAs are optimized for serial connectivity and embedded processing. These platforms enable customers to select
the optimal mix of resources for their particular application. Virtex-4 devices are produced on 90-nanometer process technology manufactured on 300 millimeter (mm) wafers. 


 The
Virtex-II Pro Platform FPGAs are nine devices that feature IBM PowerPC™ processor blocks, multi-gigabit transceivers and embedded memory. These FPGAs are
supported by Xilinx software design tools. Virtex-II Pro devices are manufactured on 300mm wafers using 130-nanometer copper process technology. 

5




 


The
Virtex-II Pro solution enables ultra-high bandwidth system-on-a-chip (SoC) designs that were previously the exclusive domain of custom
ASICs. 

 The
Virtex-II FPGA family is a complete platform for programmable logic that allows digital system designers to rapidly implement a single-chip solution. The
Virtex-II FPGA family consists of 11 devices, all utilizing 150-nanometer process technology on 300mm wafers. 

 The
Virtex-E FPGA family consists of 11 devices and is manufactured on 180-nanometer process technology. The original Virtex FPGA family, introduced in
October 1998, includes nine 2.5-volt Virtex devices that are currently in production on 220-nanometer process technology with densities ranging from 1,728 to 27,648
logic cells. 



 Spartan FPGAs  



 The Spartan-3 FPGA family was the first PLD family shipping on 90-nanometer copper process technology. This family consists of eight
devices that are programmable alternatives to ASICs. 

 The
Spartan-3E FPGA family, also shipping on 90-nanometer copper process technology, consists of five devices and is complementary to Spartan-3.
Ranging from 2,160 to 33,192 logic cells, the Spartan-3E family delivers the lowest cost per logic cell. The Spartan-3E family is optimized for gate centric designs while the
Spartan-3 family is optimized for input/output (I/O) centric designs. Both Spartan-3 and Spartan-3E families address cost-sensitive,
high-volume applications. 

 The
Spartan-IIE family consists of seven devices and is manufactured on 150-nanometer process technology. The Spartan-II family has seven devices
shipping on 180-nanometer process technology. 

 The
Spartan-XL family consists of five devices with up to 1,862 logic cells on 250-nanometer process technology operating at 3.3 volts. The original Spartan
family was introduced in 1998. It has five devices shipping with densities up to 1,862 logic cells on 350-nanometer process technology operating at 3.5 volts. 



 EasyPath FPGAs  



 EasyPath™ FPGAs use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard FPGAs and are tested to a specific customer application to improve
yield and lower costs. As a result, EasyPath FPGAs provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard FPGA devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering
effort or the additional time required to move to an ASIC. EasyPath FPGAs are available for the higher density devices of the Virtex-II and Virtex-II Pro families. EasyPath
FPGAs will also be available for the higher densities of the Virtex-4 and Virtex-5 families. Customers purchasing EasyPath FPGAs must meet certain minimum order requirements
and pay a custom test generation charge. 



 CPLDs  



 The XC9500, XC9500XL and XC9500XV product families offer low cost, high speed and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt,
3.3-volt and 2.5-volt systems, respectively. 

 The
CoolRunner family lines were the first CPLD products to combine very low power consumption with high density and high I/O counts in a single device. This family has six devices
shipping on 350-nanometer process technology. 

 The
CoolRunner-II family is a next-generation family with six devices shipping on 180-nanometer process technology. CoolRunner-II CPLDs
combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. While CoolRunner-II is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and
applications, the ultra low power consumption of these devices make them ideal for use in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. 

6




 


Support Products  



 Software Solutions  



 We offer complete software solutions that enable customers to implement their design specifications into our PLDs. These software design tools combine a powerful
technology with a flexible, easy-to-use graphical interface to help achieve the best possible designs within each customer's project schedule, regardless of the designer's
experience level. Our software design tools operate on personal computers running Microsoft Windows 2000, XP and Linux operating systems, and on workstations from Sun Microsystems running Solaris. 


 The
Xilinx ISE™ (Integrated Software Environment) family fits a wide range of customer needs. ISE also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design
automation (EDA) software offerings and point-tool solutions to deliver the most flexible design environment available. 

 All
Xilinx FPGA and CPLD device families are supported by ISE, including the newest Virtex-5, Spartan-3E and CoolRunner-II device families. 



 IP Cores  



 We also offer IP cores for commonly used complex functions. LogiCORE™ products, which are developed and supported by Xilinx, together with
AllianceCORE™ IP cores from third-party participants, enable customers to shorten development time, reduce design risk and obtain superior performance for their designs. LogiCORE products
include solutions for designers building products in the areas of DSP, network line cards and backplanes, PCI Express™ and advanced switching, RapidIO, ethernet, and embedded processing
with both PowerPC processor and MicroBlaze™, a 32-bit soft processor core. Xilinx also offers a CORE Generator™ system which allows customers to implement various
IP cores into our PLDs with predictable and repeatable performance and a System Generator™ for DSP tool which allows system architects to quickly model and implement DSP functions, and
features an interface to third-party system level DSP design tools. 



 Configuration Solutions  



 Through our Configuration Solutions Group, Xilinx offers a range of one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to
configure Xilinx FPGAs. The PlatformFlash PROM (programmable read only memory) family is our newest offering. This family ranges in density from 1 to 32 megabits and offers full in-system
programmability at the lowest cost per megabit of any Xilinx configuration solution. Older solutions include our XC1700 family (one-time programmable with density up to 16 megabits), and
the XC1800 family (in-system programmable with density up to 4 megabits). Our PROM solutions support all of our FPGA devices. 



 Global Services  



 To extend our customers' technical capabilities and shorten their design times, we offer a portfolio of global services, which includes education, design and
support services. In addition, we offer a personalized online technical resource, www.mysupport.xilinx.com. 

 Please
see information under the caption "Results of Operations—Net Revenues" in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" for information about our revenues from our classes of products. 


Research and Development  

 Our research and development activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware
and embedded software, the design of IP cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and
lowering power consumption. As a result of our research and development efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past years including the Virtex-5 and
Virtex-4 series of FPGAs, and the Spartan-3 and Spartan-3E FPGA series. 

7




 


Additionally,
we have made major enhancements to our IP core offerings and introduced new versions of our ISE software. To support embedded processing and DSP design on our platform FPGA devices, the
Platform Studio tool suite and System Generator for DSP have been further enhanced. We extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90- and 65-nanometer
complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we are the first company in the PLD industry to ship 65-nanometer devices. 

 Our
research and development challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. In fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, our research
and development expenses were $326.1 million, $307.4 million and $247.6 million, respectively. We believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success
and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and development effort. However, there can be no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will be successful,
timely or cost-effective. 

Acquisition  

 In January 2006, Xilinx completed the acquisition of AccelChip, Inc. (AccelChip), a privately-held company that provides
MATLABR synthesis software tools for designing DSP systems. The total purchase price for AccelChip was $19.6 million in cash, including $436 thousand of acquisition-related
costs. 

Sales and Distribution  

 We sell our products to OEMs and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to OEMs or subcontract manufacturers. 

 We
use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. In general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a
limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. Distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base.
Distributors also provide vendor managed inventory, value added services and logistics for a wide range of our OEM customers. 


 Whether
Xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sale opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer
orders. In such situations, distributors are the legal sellers of the products and as such they bear all risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory
shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations. 

 In
accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic
basis and also receive price concessions for unsold product in the case of a subsequent decrease in list prices. Revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the
products are sold to the distributor's end customer. 

 Avnet, Inc.
(Avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004.
On April 26, 2005, two of the Company's distributors, Avnet and the Memec Group (Memec), announced that they had reached a definitive agreement for Avnet to acquire Memec. On July 5,
2005, Avnet announced that it had completed its acquisition of Memec. As of April 1, 2006 and April 2, 2005, the combined Avnet/Memec entity accounted for 78% and 88% of the Company's
total accounts receivable, respectively. Had this acquisition been completed for all periods presented, resale of product through this combined entity would have accounted for 70%, 76% and 78% of the
Company's worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We also use other regional distributors throughout the world. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in
specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. We believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of
customers while providing efficient logistics services. Since PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify
the requirements for distributor technical support. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for information about
concentrations 

8




 


of
credit risk. Please also see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for financial information about our revenues
from external customers and domestic and international operations. 

Backlog  

 As of April 1, 2006, our backlog from OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next
three months was $223.0 million. As of April 2, 2005, our backlog from OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next
three months was $157.0 million. Orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. As a result, backlogs
from both OEM customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. 

Wafer Fabrication  

 As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our products. Rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including United
Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba) and Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko). Currently, UMC manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. Precise terms with respect to
the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries. 

 Our
strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to
enhance
foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. As a result, we have entered into
agreements with UMC, Toshiba and Seiko as discussed below. 

 In
September 1995, we entered into a joint venture with UMC and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC) (see
Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"). In January 2000, as a result of the merger of USIC into UMC, our equity
position in USIC was converted into shares of UMC, which are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. We retain monthly guaranteed wafer capacity rights in UMC as long as we retain a certain
percentage of our original UMC shares. 

 In
fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with Seiko that was amended in fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000. Seiko manufactures wafers for our older, more mature product lines. 

 In
October 2004, the Company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company would pay Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal
installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million is being reduced by wafer purchases from Toshiba and any unused
portion is fully refundable in December 2006 if Toshiba is not able to maintain ongoing production and quality criteria or if future wafer purchases do not exceed the total amount advanced. The
balance of the advance payment remaining was $72.3 million at April 1, 2006. 

Sort, Assembly and Test  

 Wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by Xilinx. Sorted wafers are assembled by subcontractors. During the assembly
process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. Following assembly, the packaged units are tested by Xilinx personnel at our San Jose,
California, Dublin, Ireland or Singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. We purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from Siliconware Precision
Industries Ltd. (SPIL) in Taiwan and from Amkor Technology, Inc. in Korea and the Philippines. 

9






<A
NAME="page_dg1137_1_10">   Quality Certification  

 Xilinx achieved ISO 9001 quality certification in 1995 in San Jose, California, in 2001 in Dublin, Ireland and in 2004 in Longmont, Colorado, the main site for
our software development efforts. In addition, Xilinx achieved ISO 14001, TL 9000 and TS 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the San Jose and Dublin locations and TL 9000 and TS 16949
quality certifications in Singapore. 

Patents and Licenses  

 While our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any
particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. As of April 1, 2006, we held 1,292 issued United States patents, which vary in duration, relating to our products.
We maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, software, IC architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to
PLDs. We intend to vigorously protect our intellectual property. We believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or to effectively
protect our trade secrets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may incur litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights
against third parties. However, any such litigation may not be successful. 

 We
have acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant sublicenses to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed with our software design tools. In
addition, we have licensed certain software for internal use in product design. We are also licensed under certain third party patents and have provided some third parties licenses under Company
patents. 

Employees  

 As of April 1, 2006, we had 3,295 employees compared to 3,050 at the end of the prior fiscal year. None of our employees are represented by a labor union.
We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  

 Certain information regarding each of Xilinx's executive officers is set forth below: 




Name 
 
Age
 
Position


Willem P. Roelandts
 
61
 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors


Kris Chellam
 
55
 
Senior Vice President, Corporate and Enterprise Services


Thomas R. Lavelle
 
56
 
Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Patrick W. Little
 
43
 
Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services


Jon A. Olson
 
52
 
Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer


Boon C. Ooi
 
52
 
Vice President, Worldwide Operations


Richard W. Sevcik
 
58
 
Executive Vice President and General Manager and a Director


Sandeep S. Vij
 
40
 
Vice President, Worldwide Marketing





 There
are no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company or the Board of Directors. 

 Willem
P. "Wim" Roelandts joined the Company in January 1996 as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Company's Board of Directors. In April 1996,
Mr. Roelandts was appointed to the additional position of President of the Company and assumed the role of Chairman of the Board of Directors on August 7, 2003 upon the retirement of
Bernard V. Vonderschmitt. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Hewlett-Packard Company as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Computer Systems Organizations from August 1992
through January 1996 and as Vice President and General Manager of the Network Systems Group from December 1990 through August 1992. Mr. Roelandts also serves as a director
of Applied Materials, Inc. 

10




 


 Kris
Chellam joined the Company in July 1998 as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Chellam was appointed Senior Vice President, Corporate and
Enterprise Services in June 2005. He has overall responsibility for business and strategy development, information technology, real estate and Xilinx's Asia Pacific regional headquarters in
Singapore. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Atmel Corporation as Senior Vice President and General Manager of a product group from March to July 1998 and as Vice President, Finance
and Administration, and Chief Financial Officer from September 1991 through March 1998. Mr. Chellam also serves as a director of At Road Inc. 

 Thomas
R. Lavelle joined the Company in August 1999 as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Lavelle spent more than
15 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of positions, including group counsel for a number of Intel organizations. From 1992 to 1993, Mr. Lavelle served as Vice President and
General Counsel for NeXT Inc. 

 Patrick
W. Little joined the Company in March 2003 as Vice President and General Manager and was promoted in March 2005 to Vice President of Worldwide Sales.
Mr. Little was further promoted to his current position of Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services in December 2005. From September 1999 to March 2003, he served as
President and CEO of Believe, Inc. Mr. Little served as Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Rendition, Inc. from March 1998 to September 1999. He was
General Manager of the Audio Business Division of Diamond Multimedia Systems, Inc., and held various senior management positions at Trident Microsystems, Inc. and Opti, Inc., from
1992 to 1998. 

 Jon
A. Olson joined the Company in June 2005 as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. He has overall responsibility for worldwide finance, tax, treasury and
investor relations and administrative responsibility for internal audit. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Olson spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of
positions, including Vice President, Finance and Enterprise Services, Director of Finance. 

 Boon
C. Ooi joined the Company in November 2003 as Vice President, Worldwide Operations. He has overall responsibility for worldwide manufacturing, testing and package development
for Xilinx programmable logic devices. Mr. Ooi also oversees strategic management of the Company's semiconductor foundry and packaging suppliers. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Ooi
spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President of the Corporate Technology Group and Director of Operations. 

 Richard
W. Sevcik joined the Company in April 1997 as Senior Vice President and General Manager. He was elected to the Board of Directors of the Company in 2000. Mr. Sevcik
assumed his current position of Executive Vice President and General Manager in January 2004. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sevcik worked at Hewlett-Packard Company for ten years
where, from 1994 through 1996, he served as Group General Manager of its Systems Technology Group and oversaw five divisions involved with product development for servers, workstations, operating
systems, microprocessors, networking and security. In 1995, he was named Vice President at Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Sevcik resigned from the Board of Directors of the Company effective
April 13, 2006 and retired from the Company effective May 15, 2006. 

 Sandeep
S. Vij joined the Company in April 1996 as Director, FPGA Marketing and was promoted to Vice President, Marketing and General Manager in October 1996.
Mr. Vij assumed his current position of Vice President, Worldwide Marketing in July 2001. From 1990 until April 1996, he served at Altera Corporation in a variety of marketing
roles. Mr. Vij also serves as a director of Coherent Inc. 

Additional Information  

 Our Internet address is www.xilinx.com. We make available, via a link through our investor relations website
located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as
reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All such filings on our investor relations website are available free of
charge. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 

11




 


1-800-SEC-0330.
The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at  http://www.sec.gov. The content on any website referred to in
this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted
otherwise. 

 Additional
information required by this Item 1. is incorporated by reference to the section captioned "Net Revenues—Net Revenues by Geography" in Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data." 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS  

 The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and
uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company's management currently deems immaterial
also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 

 The
semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and cyclical market patterns which contribute to create factors that may affect our future
operating results including: 

Market Demand  



•increased
dependence on turns orders (orders received and shipped within the same fiscal quarter); •limited
visibility of demand for products, especially new products; •reduced
capital spending by our customers; •weaker
demand for our products or those of our customers due to a prolonged period of economic uncertainty; •excess
inventory at Xilinx and within the supply chain including overbuilding of OEM products; •additional
excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding write-downs due to a significant deterioration in demand; •inability
to manufacture sufficient quantities of a given product in a timely manner; •inability
to obtain manufacturing or test and assembly capacity in sufficient volume; •inability
to predict the success of our customers' products in their markets; •an
unexpected increase in demand resulting in longer lead times that causes delays in customer production schedules; •dependence
on the health of the end markets and customers we serve; 


Competitive Environment  



•price
and product competition, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation; •major
customers converting to ASIC or ASSP designs from Xilinx PLDs; •faster
than normal erosion of average selling prices; •timely
introduction of new products and ability to manufacture in sufficient quantities at introduction; 


Technology  



•lower
gross margins due to product mix shifts and reduced manufacturing efficiency; •failure
to retain or attract specialized technical/management personnel; •timely
introduction of advanced manufacturing technologies; •ability
to safeguard the Company's products from competitors by means of patents and other intellectual property protections; •impact
of new technologies which result in rapid escalation of demand for some products in the face of equally steep declines in demand for others; •ability
to successfully manage multiple foundry relationships; 

12




 





Other  



•changes
in accounting pronouncements; •dependence
on distributors to generate sales and process customer orders; •disruption
in sales generation, order processing and logistics if a distributor materially defaults on a contract; •impact
of changes to current export/import laws and regulations; •volatility
of the securities market, particularly as it relates to the technology sector and our investment in UMC; •unexpected
product quality issues; •global
events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world; •increase
in the cost of natural resources; •parts
shortages at our suppliers; •failure
of information systems impacting financial reporting; •catastrophes
that impact the ability of our supply chain to operate or deliver product; and •higher
costs associated with multiple foundry relationships. 


 We
attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these
and other factors, our past results, including those described in this report, are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in many older, more stable and mature industries.
Based on the factors noted herein, we may experience substantial fluctuations in future operating results. 

 Our
results of operations are impacted by global economic and political conditions, dependence on new products, dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors, competition,
intellectual property, potential new accounting pronouncements, Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance and litigation, each of which is discussed in greater detail below. 

Potential Effect of Global Economic and Political Conditions  

 Sales and operations outside of the United States subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our
financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business and by changes in foreign currency
exchange rates affecting those countries. For example, we have sales and operations in the Asia Pacific region, Japan and Europe. Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues,
and such conditions may occur in the future.
Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business,
increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing
obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect
our financial condition and results of operations in the future. 

 Our
financial condition and results of operations are increasingly dependent on the global economy. Any instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned for example, by
political instability or terrorist activity could impact economic activity and could lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Additional risks to us include U.S. military actions,
changes in U.S. government spending on military and defense activities impacting defense-associated sales, economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. government, government regulation of exports,
imposition of tariffs and other potential trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and generally longer receivable collection periods. Moreover, our
financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract
manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located. 

13




 


Dependence on New Products  

 Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of
price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: 



•timely
completion of new product designs; •ability
to generate new design opportunities (design wins); •availability
of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products; •ability
to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies to circuit geometries on 65 nanometers and smaller; •achieving
acceptable yields; •ability
to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors; •ability
to obtain advanced packaging; •availability
of supporting software design tools; •utilization
of predefined IP cores of logic; •industry
acceptance; and •successful
deployment of electronic systems by our customers. 


 Our
product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to
further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we will be increasingly
dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield
improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that
enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our
products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

Dependence on Independent Manufacturers and Subcontractors  

 During fiscal 2006, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured in Taiwan by UMC and in Japan by Toshiba and Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of
wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in
short-term agreements. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive
performance and cost attributes, which include transitioning to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, producing
wafers at acceptable yields, and delivering them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the
realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies. In addition, greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity, raises the likelihood
of potential wafer price increases. 

 UMC's
foundries in Taiwan and Toshiba's and Seiko's foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the
recent past. Should there be a major earthquake in our suppliers' or our operating locations in the future, our operations, including our manufacturing activities, may be disrupted. This type of
disruption could result in our inability to ship products in a timely manner, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of
operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water
could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

14




 


 We
are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost
attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, unavailability of or disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of
supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand reducing net sales and negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. 

Competition  

 Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of
integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera Corporation (Altera) and Lattice Semiconductor Corporation,
from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important
competitive factors in the logic industry include: 



•product
pricing; •time-to-market;
•product
performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; •field
upgradability; •adaptability
of products to specific applications; •ease
of use and functionality of software design tools; •functionality
of predefined IP cores of logic; •inventory
management; •access
to leading-edge process technology; and •ability
to provide timely customer service and support. 


 Our
strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power
applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for
established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies. 

 Other
competitors include manufacturers of: 



•high-density
programmable logic products characterized by FPGA-type architectures; •high-volume
and low-cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; •ASICs
and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; •high-speed,
low-density CPLDs; •high-performance
DSP devices; •products
with embedded processors; •products
with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and •other
new or emerging programmable logic products. 


 Several
companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the PLD segment. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not
successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 

 The
benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and
we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software
design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the PLD market segment. 


 We
could also face competition from our licensees. We have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology which may enable them to manufacture
and market products which may be competitive with some of our older products. 

15




 


 In
conjunction with Xilinx's settlement of the patent litigation with Altera in July 2001, both companies entered into a royalty-free patent cross license agreement
for many of each company's patents through July 2006. 

Intellectual Property  

 We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such
intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have
asserted patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third
parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation,
regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our
financial condition and results of operations. 

Potential Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements  

 There may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial condition and results of operations.
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment." (SFAS 123(R)).
SFAS 123(R) eliminates our ability to account for share-based compensation transactions using Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees," (APB 25) and will instead require companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to share-based payments including stock
options and employee stock purchase plans. The Company will implement the standard for the fiscal year beginning April 2, 2006. The adoption of SFAS 123(R) will have a material impact on
our results of operations. 

 See
Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," for additional information about recent accounting
pronouncements. 

Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 Compliance  

 We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued
compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate
a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting
personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. 


Litigation  

 We are currently involved in several legal matters. See Item 3. "Legal Proceedings." 

ITEM 1B