Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” Forward-looking statements can often be identified by the use of forward-looking words, such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “intend,” “project” or other similar words. We disclaim any responsibility to update any
forward-looking statement provided in this document.

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company) designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions, including advanced integrated circuits (ICs), software design tools, predefined system functions delivered as intellectual property (IP) cores, design services, customer training, field engineering and technical support. The programmable logic devices (PLDs) include field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs). These devices are standard products that our customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our products are designed to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment manufacturers in end markets such as communications, industrial, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors, and through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) by a network of independent sales representative
firms and by a direct sales management organization. 

Xilinx was founded and incorporated in California in February 1984. In April 1990, the Company reincorporated in Delaware. Our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, California 95124, and our website address is www.xilinx.com.

Industry Overview 

There are three principal types of ICs used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system. Xilinx develops PLDs, a type of logic device. Alternatives to PLDs include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and application specific standard products (ASSPs). These devices all compete with each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications within electronic systems. However, variations in pricing, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density, functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the devices compete for specific applications.

PLDs have a primary advantage over custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs in that they enable faster time-to-market with shorter design cycles. Users of PLDs can program their design directly into the PLD, using software, thereby allowing users to revise their designs relatively quickly with lower development costs. Since PLDs are programmable, they typically have a larger die size resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, which are customized with a fixed function during wafer fabrication. Custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, however, generally require longer fabrication lead times and higher up-front costs than PLDs.

PLDs are standard components. This means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many different applications. As a result, the development cost of PLDs can be spread over a large number of users. Custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, on the other hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application. This involves a high up-front cost to users. Technology advances are enabling PLD companies to reduce costs considerably, making PLDs an increasingly attractive alternative to custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs.

3






An overview of typical PLD end market applications for our products is shown in the following table:



End Markets 
Sub-Segments 
Applications 

 
 
 
 

Communications 
Wireless 
l 
3G/4G Cellular Base Stations 

 
 
l 
WiMAX 

 
 
 
 

 
Wireline 
l 
Metro Area Networks 

 
 
l 
FTTx-Passive Optical Networks 

 
 
l 
DSL Modems  

 
 
 
 

 
Networking  
l 
Multi-Service Provisioning Platform 

 
 
 
(MSPP) 

 
 
l 
Switches  

 
 
l 
Routers  

 
 
 
 

Consumer, Automotive, 
Consumer 
l 
Video Display Systems, 

Industrial and Other 
 
 
LCD/PDP Televisions  

 
 
l 
Digital Video Recorders/Set Top Boxes/ 

 
 
 
IPTV 

 
 
l 
Smart Handhelds 

 

 
 

 
Industrial, Scientific and 
l 
Factory Automation 

 
Medical 
l 
Medical Imaging 

 
 
l 
Test and Measurement Equipment 

 
 
 
 

 
Audio, Video and Broadcast 
l 
Cable Head-end Systems 

 
 
l 
Production Switchers 

 
 
l 
Cameras  

 
 
 
 

 
Automotive  
l 
Multimedia Systems 

 
 
l 
GPS Navigation Systems 

 
 
l 
Voice Recognition 

 
 
 
 

 
Defense and Aerospace 
l 
Satellite Surveillance 

 
 
l 
Radar and Sonar Systems 

 
 
l 
Secure Communications 

 
 
 
 

Data Processing 
Storage 
l 
Security and Encryption 

 
 
l 
Network Attached Storage 

 
 
 
 

 
Servers 
l 
High End Servers 

 
 
l 
Computer Peripherals 

 
 
 
 

 
Office Automation 
l 
Copiers  

 
 
l 
Printers  



Products

Integral to the future success of our business is the timely introduction of new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively with respect to price, functionality and performance. Software design tools, IP cores, technical support and design services are also critical components that enable our customers to implement their design specifications into our PLDs. Altogether, these products form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. A brief overview of these products follows. Our product families mentioned in the table below are not all-inclusive but they comprise the majority of our revenues. They are our newest product families and are currently being designed into our customers’ next generation products. Some of our more mature product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate revenues. We operate and track our results in one operating segment for financial reporting purposes.

4






Product Families



 
Date 
 
Process 
 

FPGAs 
Introduced 
Densities 
Technology 
Voltage 

Virtex™-5 
May 2006 
31K to 330K 
65nm 
1.0v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Virtex-4 
June 2004 
12K to 200K 
90nm 
1.2v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Virtex-II Pro 
March 2002 
3K to 99K 
130nm 
1.5v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Virtex-II 
January 2001 
576 to 104K 
150nm 
1.5v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Virtex-E 
September 1999 
1.7K to 73K 
180nm 
1.8v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Spartan™-3AN 
February 2007 
1.5K to 25.3K 
90nm 
1.2v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Spartan-3A 
December 2006 
1.5K to 53.1K 
90nm 
1.2v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Spartan-3E 
March 2005 
2.2K to 33.2K 
90nm 
1.2v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Spartan-3 
April 2003 
1.7K to 74.9K 
90nm 
1.2v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Spartan-IIE 
November 2001 
1.7K to 15.6K 
150nm 
1.8v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

Spartan-II 
January 2000 
432 to 5.3K 
180nm 
2.5v 

 
 
Logic Cells 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 
Date 
 
Process 
 

CPLDs 
Introduced 
Densities 
Technology 
Voltage 

CoolRunner™-II  
 January 2002 
32 to 512 
 180nm 
 1.8v 

 
 
Macrocells 
 
 

CoolRunner  
 August 1999 
32 to 512 
 350nm 
 3.3v 

 
 
Macrocells 
 
 

XC9500XL  
September 1998 
36 to 288 
 350nm 
 3.3v 

 
  
Macrocells 
 
 



     Virtex FPGAs

The Virtex-5 FPGA family consists of 15 devices and is the latest generation Virtex family and the PLD industry’s first product family manufactured using 65-nanometer (nm) process technology. The Virtex-5 family consists of four platforms: LX for logic-intensive designs, LXT for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, SXT for high-performance digital signal processing (DSP) with serial connectivity and FXT for embedded processing with serial connectivity. Currently, Xilinx is shipping devices from the Virtex-5 LX platform, LXT platform and SXT platform. Compared to previous 90-nm Virtex family products, this product family offers increased performance, density and features, while reducing dynamic power consumption.

The 17 device Virtex-4 FPGA family consists of three platforms: LX, SX and FX. Virtex-4 LX FPGAs are optimized for logic-intensive designs, Virtex-4 SX FPGAs are optimized for high-performance DSP, and Virtex-4 FX FPGAs are optimized for embedded processing with serial connectivity. These platforms enable customers to select the optimal mix of resources for their particular application. Virtex-4 devices are produced on 90-nm process technology. 

Prior generation Virtex families include Virtex-II Pro, Virtex-II, Virtex-E and the original Virtex family.

5






     Spartan FPGAs

The Spartan-3 Generation FPGAs were the PLD industry’s first 90-nm FPGAs and were developed as a programmable ASIC alternative for new applications in high growth end markets such as consumer, automotive and low cost networking. The Spartan-3 family is comprised of different platforms including the original Spartan 3 family, the Spartan-3E family, the Spartan-3A family, the Spartan-3AN family and the Spartan-3A DSP family. The Spartan-3E family consists of five devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per logic cell. The Spartan-3A family consists of seven devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per input/output (I/O). The Spartan-3AN family is a nonvolatile FPGA family consisting of five devices that are optimized for cost sensitive applications where security and board space are customer priorities. The Spartan-3A DSP family targets cost-sensitive, high-performance signal processing applications.

Prior generation Spartan families manufactured on older process geometries include Spartan-IIE, Spartan-II, Spartan XL and the original Spartan family.

     EasyPath FPGAs

EasyPath™ FPGAs use the same production masks and fabrication process as standard FPGAs and are tested to a specific customer application to improve yield and lower costs. As a result, EasyPath FPGAs provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the standard FPGA devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort or the additional time required to move to an ASIC. EasyPath FPGAs are available for the higher density devices of the Virtex-II and Virtex-II Pro families. EasyPath FPGAs will also be available for the higher densities of the Virtex-4 and Virtex-5 families. Customers purchasing EasyPath FPGAs must meet certain minimum order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge.

      CPLDs

CPLDs operate on the low end of the programmable logic density spectrum. CPLDs are single chip, nonvolatile solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect.

The CoolRunner-II family is Xilinx’s latest generation CPLD family with six devices shipping. CoolRunner-II CPLDs combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of high performance and low cost. While CoolRunner-II is suitable for a wide variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the growing portable consumer electronics marketplace.

The CoolRunner XPLA3 family was the first CPLD product to combine very low power consumption with high density and high I/O counts in a single device. This family consists of six devices.

Prior generation CPLD families include the XC9500, XC9500XL and XC9500XV which offer low cost, high performance and in-system programmability for 5.0-volt, 3.3-volt and 2.5-volt systems, respectively. These families are widely used in communications and industrial applications.

Support Products

     Software Solutions

We offer complete software solutions that enable customers to implement their design specifications into our PLDs. These software design tools combine a powerful technology with a flexible, easy-to-use graphical interface to help achieve the best possible designs within each customer’s project schedule, regardless of the designer’s experience level. Our software design tools operate on personal computers running Microsoft Windows 2000, XP and Linux operating systems, and on workstations from Sun Microsystems running Solaris.

The Xilinx ISE™ (Integrated Software Environment) family fits a wide range of customer needs. ISE also integrates with a wide range of third-party electronic design automation (EDA) software offerings and point-tool solutions to deliver the most flexible design environment available. 

All Xilinx FPGA and CPLD device families are supported by ISE, including the newest Virtex, Spartan and CoolRunner device families.

6






     Processing Solutions

Xilinx offerings in the areas of DSP and Embedded Processing are aimed at solving system level problems of non-traditional users such as system architects and software engineers. Processing Solutions enable new growth for Xilinx beyond the PLD market segment by building and delivering a configurable processing platform, tools, and IP for specific vertical markets. Products available include LogiCORE™ IP, Connectivity Cores, MicroBlaze™ and Power PC™ processors, System Generator for DSP, AccelDSP™ architectural synthesis, Platform Studio tool and the Embedded Development Kit.

     Configuration Solutions

Through our Configuration Solutions Group, Xilinx offers a range of one-time programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure Xilinx FPGAs. The PlatformFlash PROM (programmable read only memory) family is our newest offering. This family ranges in density from 1 to 32 megabits and offers full in-system programmability at the lowest cost per megabit of any Xilinx configuration solution. Older solutions include our XC1700 family (one-time programmable with density up to 16 megabits), and the XC1800 family (in-system programmable with density up to 4 megabits). Our PROM solutions support all of our FPGA devices.

     Global Services

To extend our customers’ technical capabilities and shorten their design times, we offer a portfolio of global services, which includes education, design and support services. In addition, we offer a personalized online technical resource, www.mysupport.xilinx.com.

Please see information under the caption “Results of Operations – Net Revenues” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for information about our revenues from our classes of products.

Research and Development

Our research and development activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the design of IP cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity improvements and lowering power consumption. As a result of our research and development efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past years including the Virtex-5 and Virtex-4 series of FPGAs, and the Spartan-3 FPGA series. Additionally, we have made major enhancements to our IP core offerings and introduced new versions of our ISE software. To support embedded processing and DSP design on our platform FPGA devices, the Platform Studio tool suite and System Generator for DSP have been further enhanced. We extended our collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90-nm and 65-nm
complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we are the first company in the PLD industry to ship 65-nm devices.

Our research and development challenge is to continue to develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. In fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, our research and development expenses were $388.1 million, $326.1 million and $307.4 million, respectively. We believe technical leadership and innovation are essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and development effort. However, there can be no assurance that any of our research and development efforts will be successful, timely or cost-effective.

Sales and Distribution

We sell our products to OEMs and to electronic components distributors who resell these products to OEMs or subcontract manufacturers.

We use a dedicated global sales and marketing organization as well as independent sales representatives to generate sales. In general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing those customers in defined territories. Distributors create demand within the balance of our customer base. Distributors also provide vendor managed inventory, value added services and logistics for a wide range of our OEM customers. 

7






Whether Xilinx, the independent sales representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. In such situations, distributors are the legal sellers of the products and as such they bear all risks generally related to the sale of commercial goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign currency fluctuations. 

In accordance with our distribution agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a subsequent change in list prices. Revenue recognition on shipments to distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the distributor’s end customer. 

Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) distributes the substantial majority of our products worldwide. No end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. In July 2005, two of the Company’s distributors, Avnet and the Memec Group (Memec), consolidated and merged into one entity, with Avnet as the surviving company. As of March 31, 2007 and April 1, 2006, the combined Avnet/Memec entity accounted for 86% and 78% of the Company’s total accounts receivable, respectively. Resale of product through this combined entity accounted for 67% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2007. Had this acquisition been completed for all periods presented, resale of product through this combined entity would have accounted for 70% and 76% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. We also use other regional distributors throughout the world. From time to time, we may add or terminate
distributors in specific geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their performance. We believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. Since PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for information about concentrations of credit risk. Please also see Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for financial information about our revenues from external customers and domestic and international operations.

Backlog 

As of March 31, 2007, our backlog from OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $190.0 million, compared to $223.0 million as of April 1, 2006. Orders from end customers to our distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation without significant penalty. As a result, backlogs from both OEM customers and end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period.

Wafer Fabrication

As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not manufacture wafers used for our products. Rather, we purchase wafers from multiple foundries including United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba) and Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko). Currently, UMC manufactures the substantial majority of our wafers. Precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries.

Our strategy is to focus our resources on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies. As a result, we entered into agreements with UMC, Toshiba and Seiko as discussed below.

In September 1995, we entered into a joint venture with UMC and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC). In January 2000, as a result of the merger of USIC into UMC, our equity position in USIC was converted into shares of UMC, which are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. We retain monthly guaranteed wafer capacity rights in UMC as long as we retain a certain percentage of our original UMC shares. Also see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

In fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer purchasing agreement with Seiko that was amended in fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000. Seiko manufactures wafers for our older, more mature product lines. 

8






In October 2004, the Company entered into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The original agreement was extended to December 2007. The entire advance payment of $100.0 million is being reduced by wafer purchases from Toshiba and any unused portion is fully refundable in December 2007 if Toshiba is not able to maintain ongoing production and quality criteria or if future wafer purchases do not exceed the total amount advanced. The balance of the advance payment remaining was $40.0 million at March 31, 2007.

Sort, Assembly and Test

Wafers purchased are sorted by the foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by Xilinx. Sorted wafers are assembled by subcontractors. During the assembly process, the wafers are separated into individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. Following assembly, the packaged units are tested by Xilinx personnel at our San Jose, California, Dublin, Ireland or Singapore facilities or by independent test subcontractors. We purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing services from Siliconware Precision Industries Ltd. in Taiwan and from Amkor Technology, Inc. in Korea and the Philippines. 

Quality Certification

Xilinx achieved ISO 9001 quality certification in 1995 in San Jose, California, in 2001 in Dublin, Ireland and in 2004 in Longmont, Colorado, the main site for our software development efforts. In addition, Xilinx achieved ISO 14001, TL 9000 and TS 16949 environmental and quality certifications in the San Jose, Dublin and Singapore locations.

Patents and Licenses

While our various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. As of March 31, 2007, we held 1,562 issued United States patents relating to our products, which vary in duration. We maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in the areas of, but not limited to, software, IC architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies relating to PLDs. We intend to vigorously protect our intellectual property. We believe that failure to enforce our intellectual property rights (for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or to effectively protect our trade secrets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may incur litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties.
However, any such litigation may or may not be successful. 

We have acquired various software licenses that permit us to grant sublicenses to our customers for certain third party software programs licensed with our software design tools. In addition, we have licensed certain software for internal use in product design. We are also licensed under certain third party patents and have provided some third parties licenses under Company patents.

Employees

As of March 31, 2007, we had 3,353 employees compared to 3,295 at the end of the prior fiscal year. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations.

Executive Officers of the Registrant 

Certain information regarding each of Xilinx’s executive officers is set forth below:



Name 
 
      
Age 
      
Position 

Willem P. Roelandts 

62 
 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the 





Board of Directors 

Patrick W. Little 

44 

Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services 

Iain M. Morris 

50 

Executive Vice President and General Manager 

Jon A. Olson 

53 

Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer 

Boon C. Ooi 

53 

Vice President, Worldwide Operations 

Omid Tahernia 

46 

Vice President and General Manager 

Sandeep S. Vij 

41 

Vice President, Worldwide Marketing 



9






There are no family relationships among the executive officers of the Company or the Board of Directors.

Willem P. “Wim” Roelandts joined the Company in January 1996 as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Company’s Board of Directors. In April 1996, Mr. Roelandts was appointed to the additional position of President of the Company and he assumed the role of Chairman of the Board of Directors on August 7, 2003 upon the retirement of Bernard V. Vonderschmitt. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Hewlett-Packard Company as Senior Vice President and General Manager of Computer Systems Organizations from August 1992 through January 1996 and as Vice President and General Manager of the Network Systems Group from December 1990 through August 1992. Mr. Roelandts also serves as a director of Applied Materials, Inc.

Patrick W. Little joined the Company in March 2003 as Vice President and General Manager and was promoted in March 2005 to Vice President of Worldwide Sales. Mr. Little was promoted to his current position of Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services in December 2005. From September 1999 to March 2003, he served as President and CEO of Believe, Inc. Mr. Little served as Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Rendition, Inc. from March 1998 to September 1999. He was General Manager of the Audio Business Division of Diamond Multimedia Systems, Inc., and held various senior management positions at Trident Microsystems, Inc. and Opti, Inc., from 1992 to 1998.

Iain M. Morris joined the Company in November 2006 as Executive Vice President and General Manager. From December 2003 to May 2006, Mr. Morris was Senior Vice President at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. with responsibility for the Digital Media and Pervasive Computing Group. From February 2001 to August 2003, Mr. Morris served at Hewlett-Packard Company, where he was Senior Vice President of Mobility and Emerging Business and President of Embedded and Personal Systems, respectively. Prior to joining Hewlett-Packard Company, he spent nearly 25 years at Motorola, Inc. serving in a variety of positions where he oversaw divisions involved with engineering, product development, marketing and direct sales. 

Jon A. Olson joined the Company in June 2005 as Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Olson was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in August 2006. He has overall responsibility for worldwide finance, tax, business and strategy development, information technology, treasury and investor relations and administrative responsibility for internal audit. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Olson spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President, Finance and Enterprise Services, Director of Finance.

Boon C. Ooi joined the Company in November 2003 as Vice President, Worldwide Operations. He has overall responsibility for worldwide manufacturing, testing, assembly engineering and supply chain management for Xilinx programmable logic devices. Mr. Ooi also oversees strategic management of the Company’s semiconductor foundry and packaging suppliers. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Ooi spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of positions, including Vice President of the Corporate Technology Group and Director of Operations. 

Omid Tahernia joined the Company in August 2004 as Vice President and General Manager. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Tahernia worked at Motorola, Inc. for over 20 years in both the equipment and semiconductor segments. From January 1999 to May 2003, he served at Motorola Semiconductor as Vice President and General Manager of the Wireless and Mobile Systems Division driving chipset platforms including baseband processors and from May 2003 to June 2004 as Vice President and Director of Worldwide Strategy and Business Development for the Wireless Group. Previously, Mr. Tahernia held various management positions in Motorola’s Paging Division.

Sandeep S. Vij joined the Company in April 1996 as Director, FPGA Marketing and was promoted to Vice President, Marketing and General Manager in October 1996. Mr. Vij assumed his current position of Vice President, Worldwide Marketing in July 2001. From 1990 until April 1996, he served at Altera Corporation in a variety of marketing roles. Mr. Vij also serves as a director of Coherent Inc. 

Additional Information

Our Internet address is www.xilinx.com. We make available, via a link through our investor relations website located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation 

10






of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise.

Additional information required by this Item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned “Net Revenues – Net Revenues by Geography” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and to Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS

The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, intense competition and cyclical market patterns which contribute to create factors that may affect our future operating results including:

Market Demand


increased dependence on turns orders (orders received and shipped within the same fiscal quarter);
limited visibility of demand for products, especially new products;
reduced capital spending by our customers;
weaker demand for our products or those of our customers due to a prolonged period of economic uncertainty;
excess inventory at Xilinx and within the supply chain including overbuilding of OEM products;
additional excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding write-downs due to a significant deterioration in demand;
inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of a given product in a timely manner;
inability to obtain manufacturing or test and assembly capacity in sufficient volume;
inability to predict the success of our customers’ products in their markets;
an unexpected increase in demand resulting in longer lead times that causes delays in customer production schedules;
dependence on the health of the end markets and customers we serve; 
Competitive Environment


price and product competition, which can change rapidly due to technological innovation;
customers converting to ASIC or ASSP designs from Xilinx PLDs;
faster than normal erosion of average selling prices;
timely introduction of new products and ability to manufacture in sufficient quantities at introduction; 
Technology


lower gross margins due to product or customer mix shifts and reduced manufacturing efficiency;
failure to retain or attract specialized technical/management personnel;
timely introduction of advanced manufacturing technologies;
ability to safeguard the Company’s products from competitors by means of patents and other intellectual property protections;
impact of new technologies which result in rapid escalation of demand for certain products with corresponding declines in demand for others;
ability to successfully manage multiple vendor relationships; 
Other


changes in accounting pronouncements;
dependence on distributors to generate sales and process customer orders;
disruption in sales generation, order processing and logistics if a distributor materially defaults on a contract;
impact of changes to current export/import laws and regulations; 
11







volatility of the securities market, particularly as it relates to the technology sector;
unexpected product quality issues;
global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world;
increase in the cost of natural resources;
parts shortages at our suppliers;
failure of information systems impacting financial reporting;
catastrophes that impact the ability of our supply chain to operate or deliver product; and
higher costs associated with multiple foundry relationships. 
We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past results, including those described in this report, are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies in many older, more stable and mature industries. Based on the factors noted herein, we may experience substantial fluctuations in future operating results.

Our results of operations are impacted by global economic and political conditions, dependence on new products, dependence on independent manufacturers and subcontractors, competition, intellectual property, potential effect of new accounting pronouncements, financial reporting and internal controls environment and litigation, each of which is discussed in greater detail below.

Potential Effect of Global Economic and Political Conditions

Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we do significant business and by changes in foreign currency exchange rates affecting those countries. For example, we have sales and operations in the Asia Pacific region, Japan and Europe. Past economic weakness in these markets adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our customers’ ability to repay
existing obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations in the future.

Our financial condition and results of operations are increasingly dependent on the global economy. Any instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political instability or terrorist activity could impact economic activity and could lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Additional risks to us include U.S. military actions, changes in U.S. government spending on military and defense activities impacting defense-associated sales, economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. government, government regulation of exports, imposition of tariffs and other potential trade barriers, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, rising oil prices and generally longer receivable collection periods. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end customers and contract
manufacturers who provide assembly and test services worldwide, are located.

Dependence on New Products 

Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is dependent upon several factors, including:


timely completion of new product designs;
ability to generate new design opportunities (design wins);
availability of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new products;
ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller;
achieving acceptable yields;
ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly subcontractors;
ability to obtain advanced packaging; 
12







availability of supporting software design tools;
utilization of predefined IP cores of logic;
customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and
successful deployment of electronic systems by our customers. 
Our product development efforts may not be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result, we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our products do
not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

Dependence on Independent Manufacturers and Subcontractors 

During fiscal 2007, nearly all of our wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually result in short-term agreements. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC, which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields, and deliver them in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies. In addition,
greater demand for wafers produced by the foundries without an offsetting increase in foundry capacity, raises the likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages.

UMC’s foundries in Taiwan and Toshiba’s and Seiko’s foundries in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas that have been seismically active in the recent past. Should there be a major earthquake in our suppliers’ or our operating locations in the future, our operations, including our manufacturing activities, may be disrupted. This type of disruption could result in our inability to ship products in a timely manner, thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any reason, including other natural disasters such as fires or floods, as well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

We are also dependent on subcontractors to provide semiconductor assembly, test and shipment services. Any prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, unavailability of or disruption in assembly, test or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand reducing net sales and negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. 

Competition

Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD competitors, Altera Corporation (Altera), Lattice Semiconductor Corporation and Actel Corporation, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important competitive factors in the logic industry include:


product pricing;
time-to-market;
product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density;
field upgradability;
adaptability of products to specific applications; 
13







ease of use and functionality of software design tools;
functionality of predefined IP cores of logic;
inventory management;
access to leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and
ability to provide timely customer service and support. 
Our strategy for expansion in the logic market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance, high-density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies.

Other competitors include manufacturers of: 


high-density programmable logic products characterized by FPGA-type architectures;
high-volume and low-cost FPGAs as programmable replacements for ASICs and ASSPs;
ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic;
high-speed, low-density CPLDs;
high-performance DSP devices;
products with embedded processors;
products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and
other new or emerging programmable logic products. 
Several companies have introduced products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the PLD segment. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

The benefits of programmable logic have attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. We recognize that different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant competitive factors in the PLD market segment.

We could also face competition from our licensees. We have granted limited rights to other companies with respect to certain of our older technology which may enable them to manufacture and market products which may be competitive with some of our older products. For example, in July 2001, in connection with a settlement of patent litigation with Altera, we entered into a royalty-free patent cross license agreement which terminated in July 2006.

Intellectual Property

We rely upon patent, copyright, trade secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have asserted patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us in the future; assertions by third parties may result in costly litigation and we may not prevail in such litigation or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third parties on commercially reasonable terms. Litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. Any infringement claim or other litigation against us or by us could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.

Considerable Number of Common Shares Subject to Future Issuance 

As of March 31, 2007, we had 2.00 billion authorized common shares, of which 295.9 million shares were outstanding. In addition, 99.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans (Equity Plans), and 32.1 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures (debentures). The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our Equity Plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 

14






Potential Effect of New Accounting Pronouncements

There may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. For example, the accounting method for convertible debt securities with net share settlement, such as our debentures, may be subject to change. Under the accounting rules currently in effect, for the purpose of calculating diluted net income per common share, a convertible debt security providing for net share settlement of the conversion value and meeting specified requirements under applicable accounting rules, is accounted for interest expense purposes similarly to non-convertible debt. As a result, stated coupon constituting interest expense and any shares issuable upon conversion of the debt security would be accounted for under the treasury stock method. The effect of the treasury stock method is that the shares potentially issuable upon conversion of the debentures are not
included in the calculation of our diluted net income per common share except to the extent that the conversion value of the debentures exceeds their principal amount, in which event the number of shares of our common stock necessary to settle the conversion are treated as having been issued for diluted net income per common share purposes.

The accounting method for net share settled convertible securities is currently under consideration by the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB). Under consideration is a proposed method for accounting for net share settled convertible securities under which the debt and equity components of the security would be bifurcated and accounted for separately. We cannot predict the outcome of this process or any other changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) that may affect accounting for convertible debt securities. Any change in the accounting method for convertible debt securities could have an adverse impact on our financial results. These impacts could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and in turn negatively impact the trading price of the debentures.

Please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information about the debentures. Please also see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional information about recent accounting pronouncements.

Financial Reporting and Internal Controls Environment

We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act). Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements. Further, our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies.

Litigation

See Item 3. “Legal Proceedings.”

ITEM 1B