Item 1A. 
    
    Risk
    Factors 
     11 
  
    Item
      1B. 
    
    Unresolved Staff Comments 
     16 
  
    Item 2. 
    
    Properties 
     16 
  
    Item
      3. 
    
    Legal
      Proceedings 
     17 
  
    Item 4. 
    
    Submission of Matters to a
      Vote of Security Holders 
     18 
  
     
  
     
  
    PART II 
    
     
     
  
     
  
    Item
      5. 
    
    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related
      Stockholder Matters and 
     19 
  
     
    
    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
     
  
    Item 6. 
    
    Selected Financial
      Data 
     21 
  
    Item
      7. 
    
    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results 
     22 
  
     
    
    of
      Operations 
     
  
    Item 7A. 
    
    Quantitative and
      Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 
     35 
  
    Item
      8. 
    
    Financial Statements and Supplementary
    Data 
     37 
  
    Item 9. 
    
    Changes in and
      Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and 
     68 
  
     
    
    Financial
      Disclosure 
     
  
    Item
      9A. 
    
    Controls and Procedures 
     68 
  
    Item 9B. 
    
    Other
    Information 
     68 
  
     
  
    PART III 
    
     
     
  
     
  
    Item
      10. 
    
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
      Governance 
     69 
  
    Item 11. 
    
    Executive
      Compensation 
     69 
  
    Item
      12. 
    
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management 
     69 
  
     
    
    and
      Related Stockholder Matters 
     
  
    Item 13. 
    
    Certain Relationships and
      Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
     71 
  
    Item
      14. 
    
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
     71 
  
     
  
     
  
    PART IV 
    
     
     
  
     
  
    Item
      15. 
    
    Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules 
     72 
  
    Signatures
      
    
     
     74 
2


PART I
FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS
This Annual Report on Form 10-K
contains forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be found
throughout this Annual Report and particularly in Items 1. “Business” and 3.
“Legal Proceedings” which contain discussions concerning our development
efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and litigation.
Forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely
from those expressed or implied. Such risks include, but are not limited to,
those discussed throughout this document as well as in Item 1A. "Risk Factors."
Often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of
forward-looking words, such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,”
“believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “intend,” “project” and
other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any
responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in
this Annual Report or in any of our other communications for any
reason.
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company)
designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions. These
solutions have several components:

  Advanced integrated circuits (ICs) in the form of
  programmable logic devices (PLDs);
  Software design tools to program the PLDs;
  Predefined system functions delivered as
  intellectual property (IP) cores;
  Design services;
  Customer training; and
  Field engineering and technical
  support.
Our PLDs include field programmable
gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs) that our
customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our solutions are designed
to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment
manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications,
industrial, scientific and medical, test and measurement, aerospace and defense,
audio, video and broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell
our products globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and
through direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) by a network of
independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management
organization.
Xilinx was founded and incorporated in
California in February 1984. In April 1990, the Company reincorporated in
Delaware. Our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100
Logic Drive, San Jose, California 95124, and our website address is
www.xilinx.com.
Industry Overview
There are three principal types of ICs
used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are
utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for
storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are
used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a
system. Xilinx develops PLDs, a type of logic device. Alternatives to PLDs
include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and
application specific standard products (ASSPs). These devices all compete with
each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications
within electronic systems. However, variations in unit pricing, development
cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density,
functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the
devices compete for specific applications.
The primary advantage PLDs have over
custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs is that PLDs enable faster time-to-market
because of their shorter design cycles. Users can program the PLD to implement
their design, using software to create and revise their designs relatively
quickly with lower development costs. PLDs typically have a larger die size
resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, ASICs and
ASSPs, which are customized to perform a limited fixed function. Custom gate
arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, however, generally offer less flexibility, require
longer fabrication lead times and higher up-front costs than PLDs.
PLDs are standard components. This
means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many
different applications. As a result, the development cost of PLDs can be spread
over a large number of users. Custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, on the other
hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application.
ASSPs implement specific functions for a limited set of users. This involves a
high up-front cost to users. Technology advances are enabling PLD companies to
reduce costs considerably, making PLDs an increasingly attractive alternative to
custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs.
3


An overview of typical PLD end market applications
for our products is shown in the following table:



  
    End
      Markets  
    Sub-Segments  
    Applications  
  
      
     
     
     
  
    Communications  
    Wireless  
         ·
    3G/4G Cellular Base Stations  
  
      
      
         ·
    WiMAX/LTE Base Stations  
  
      
      
         ·
    Wireless Backhaul  
  
      
     
     
     
  
      
    Wireline  
         ·
    Metro Area Networks  
  
      
      
         ·
    FTTx-Passive Optical Networks  
  
      
      
         ·
    Digital Subscriber Line Access  
  
      
      
    
    Multiplexers (DSLAMs) and  
  
      
     
    
    Cable Modem Termination  
  
      
      
    
    Systems (CMTS)  
  
      
      
         ·
    Multi-Service Provisioning  
  
      
      
    
    Platforms (MSPPs)  
  
      
      
         ·
    Enterprise Switches  
  
      
      
         ·
    Mid-end and High-end Routers  
  
      
     
     
     
  
    Consumer, Automotive,  
    Consumer  
         ·
    Video Display Systems,  
  
    Industrial and Other  
      
     
    LCD/PDP Televisions  
  
      
      
         ·
    Digital Video Recorders/Set Top  
  
      
      
    
    Boxes/IPTV  
  
      
      
         ·
    Smart Handhelds  
  
      
     
     
     
  
      
    Industrial, Scientific and  
         ·
    Factory Automation  
  
      
    Medical  
         ·
    Medical Imaging  
  
      
      
         ·
    Test and Measurement  
  
      
      
    
    Equipment  
  
      
     
     
     
  
      
    Audio, Video and Broadcast  
         ·
    Cable Head-end Systems  
  
      
      
         ·
    Production Switchers  
  
      
      
         ·
    Cameras  
  
      
     
     
     
  
      
    Automotive  
         ·
    Automotive Infotainment  
  
      
      
         ·
    GPS Navigation Systems  
  
      
      
         ·
    Rear Seat Entertainment  
  
      
     
     
     
  
      
    Aerospace and Defense  
         ·
    Satellite Surveillance  
  
      
      
         ·
    Radar and Sonar Systems  
  
      
      
         ·
    Secure Communications  
  
      
     
     
     
  
    Data Processing  
    Storage  
         ·
    Security and Encryption  
  
      
      
         ·
    Network Attached Storage  
  
      
     
     
     
  
      
    Servers  
         ·
    High-end Servers  
  
      
      
         ·
    Computer Peripherals  
  
      
     
     
     
  
      
    Office Automation  
         ·
    Copiers  
  
      
      
         ·
    Printers 
  
Products
Integral to the success of our business
is the timely introduction of new products that meet customer requirements and
compete effectively with respect to price, functionality and performance.
Software design tools, IP cores, technical support and design services are also
critical components that enable our customers to implement their design
specifications into our PLDs. Altogether, our PLDs and related IP, service and
support form a comprehensive programmable logic solution. A brief
overview of our PLD offerings follows and is not all-inclusive but does comprise
the majority of our
4


revenues. Some of our more mature
product families have been excluded from the table although they continue to
generate revenues. We operate and track our results in one operating segment for
financial reporting purposes.
Product Families



  
      
      
      
     Process 
     
  
    FPGAs  
    Date Introduced 
     Densities 
     Technology 
     Voltage 
  
      
      
     20K to
    330K 
     
     
  
    Virtex®-5  
     May 2006 
     Logic
    Cells 
     65nm 
     1.0v 
  
      
      
     12K to
    200K 
     
     
  
    Virtex-4  
     June 2004 
     Logic
    Cells 
     90nm 
     1.2v 
  
      
      
     3K to
    99K 
     
     
  
    Virtex-II Pro 
    
     March 2002 
     Logic
    Cells 
     130nm 
     1.5v 
  
      
      
     576 to
    104K 
     
     
  
    Virtex-II  
     January 2001 
     Logic
    Cells 
     150nm 
     1.5v 
  
      
      
     1.7K to
    73K 
     
     
  
    Virtex-E  
     September 1999 
     Logic
    Cells 
     180nm 
     1.8v 
  
      
      
     1.6K to
    54K 
    
     
  
    Spartan®-3A  
     December 2006 
     Logic
    Cells 
     90nm 
     1.2v 
  
      
      
     2.2K to
      33.2K 
    
     
  
    Spartan-3E 

     March 2005 
     Logic
    Cells 
     90nm 
     1.2v 
  
      
      
     1.7K to 75K
      Logic 
    
     
  
    Spartan-3  
     April 2003 
     Cells 
     90nm 
     1.2v 
  
      
      
     1.7K to 16K
      Logic 
    
     
  
    Spartan-IIE 
    
     November 2001 
     Cells 
     150nm 
     1.8v 
  
      
      
     432 to
    5.3K 
    
     
  
    Spartan-II 

     January 2000 
     Logic
    Cells 
     180nm 
     2.5v 
  
       
  
      
      
      
     Process 
     
  
    CPLDs  
     Date
      Introduced 
     Densities 
     Technology 
     Voltage 
  
      
      
     32 to
    512 
    
     
  
    CoolRunner™-II  
     January 2002 
     Macrocells 
     180nm 
     1.8v 
  
      
      
     32 to
    512 
    
     
  
    CoolRunner 

     August 1999 
     Macrocells 
     350nm 
     3.3v 
  
      
      
     36 to
    288 
    
     
  
    XC9500XL  
     September 1998 
     Macrocells 
     350nm 
     3.3v 
     Virtex
FPGAs
The Virtex-5 FPGA family consists of 24
devices and is the latest generation Virtex family and the PLD industry’s first
product family manufactured using 65-nanometer (nm) process technology. The
Virtex-5 family consists of four platforms: Virtex-5 LX FPGAs for
logic-intensive designs, Virtex-5 LXT FPGAs for high-performance logic with
serial connectivity, Virtex-5 SXT FPGAs for high-performance digital signal
processing (DSP) with serial connectivity and Virtex-5 FXT FPGAs for embedded
processing with serial connectivity. Within each platform are a number of
offerings, differing primarily in the amount of logic, memory, clock and
input/output (I/O) resources provided. These offerings enable customers to
select the optimal mix of resources for their particular application. Currently,
Xilinx is shipping devices from all platforms. Compared to previous 90-nm Virtex
family products, this product family offers increased performance, density and
features, while reducing dynamic power consumption.
The 17-device Virtex-4 FPGA family
consists of three platforms: LX, SX and FX. Virtex-4 LX FPGAs are optimized for
logic-intensive designs, Virtex-4 SX FPGAs are optimized for high-performance
DSP, and Virtex-4 FX FPGAs are optimized for embedded processing with serial
connectivity. Virtex-4 devices are produced on 90-nm process
technology.
Prior generation Virtex families
include Virtex-II Pro, Virtex-II, Virtex-E and the original Virtex
family.
5


     Spartan FPGAs
The Spartan-3 generation
FPGAs were the PLD
industry’s first 90-nm FPGAs and were developed as a programmable alternative to
ASICs for new applications in high growth end markets such as consumer,
automotive and low cost networking. The Spartan-3 generation is comprised of
three primary platforms including the original Spartan-3 family, the Spartan-3E
family, and the Spartan-3A family. The Spartan-3E family consists of five
devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest cost per logic cell. The
Spartan-3A family consists of 14 devices and is optimized to deliver the lowest
cost per I/O. In addition, this family has devices targeted for cost sensitive,
high performance signal processing applications and nonvolatile devices
optimized for cost sensitive applications where security and board space are
customer priorities.
Prior generation Spartan families
include Spartan-IIE, Spartan-II, Spartan XL and the original Spartan
family.
     EasyPath FPGAs
EasyPath™ FPGAs use the same production
masks and fabrication process as standard FPGAs and are tested to a specific
customer application to improve yield and lower costs. As a result, EasyPath
FPGAs provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the
standard FPGA devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort
or the additional time required to move to an ASIC. EasyPath FPGAs are available
for the higher density devices of the Virtex-II, Virtex-II Pro and Virtex-4
families. EasyPath FPGAs will also be available for the higher densities of the
Virtex-5 families. Customers purchasing EasyPath FPGAs must meet certain minimum
order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge.
     CPLDs
CPLDs operate on the low end of the
programmable logic density spectrum. CPLDs are single chip, nonvolatile
solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect.
The CoolRunner-II family is the latest
generation Xilinx CPLD family with six devices in production. CoolRunner-II
CPLDs combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of
high performance and low cost. While CoolRunner-II is suitable for a wide
variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and
small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the
growing portable consumer electronics marketplace.
The CoolRunner XPLA3 family was the
first CPLD product to combine very low power consumption with high density logic
and high I/O counts in a single device. This family consists of six
devices.
Prior generation CPLD families include
the XC9500, XC9500XL and XC9500XV which offer low cost, high performance and
in-system programmability for 5.0-volt, 3.3-volt and 2.5-volt systems,
respectively. These families are widely used in communications and industrial
applications.
Support Products
     Software
Solutions
We offer complete software solutions
that enable customers to implement their design specifications into our PLDs.
These software design tools combine a powerful technology with a flexible,
easy-to-use graphical interface to help achieve the best possible designs within
each customer’s project schedule, enabling use by designers with varying
experience levels. Our software design tools operate on personal computers
running Microsoft Windows Vista, XP and Linux operating systems.
The Xilinx ISE® (Integrated Software Environment) Design Suite fits a wide
range of customer needs. ISE software also integrates with a wide range of
third-party electronic design automation (EDA) software offerings and point-tool
solutions to deliver the most flexible design environment available.
All Xilinx FPGA and CPLD device
families are supported by ISE software, including the newest Virtex, Spartan and
CoolRunner device families.
     Processing
Solutions
Xilinx offerings in the areas of DSP
and embedded processing are aimed at solving system level problems of existing
and non-traditional users such as system architects and software engineers.
Embedded processing solutions enable new growth
6


for Xilinx beyond the PLD market
segment by building and delivering a configurable processing platform, tools,
and IP for specific vertical markets.
     Configuration
Solutions
Xilinx offers a range of one-time
programmable and in-system programmable storage devices to configure Xilinx
FPGAs. The PlatformFlash PROM (programmable read only memory) family is our
newest offering. This family ranges in density from 1 to 128 megabits and offers
full in-system programmability at the lowest cost per megabit of any Xilinx
configuration solution. Older solutions include our XC1700 family (one-time
programmable with density up to 16 megabits), and the XC1800 family (in-system
programmable with density up to 4 megabits). Our PROM solutions support all of
our FPGA devices.
     Global Services
To extend our customers’ technical
capabilities and shorten their design times, we offer a portfolio of global
services, which includes education, design and support services. In addition, we
offer a personalized online technical resource,
www.mysupport.xilinx.com.
Please see information under the
caption “Results of Operations – Net Revenues” in Item 7. “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for
information about our revenues from our product families.
Research and
Development
Our research and development (R&D)
activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development
of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the
design of IP cores of logic and the adoption of advanced semiconductor
manufacturing processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal
integrity improvements and lowering power consumption. As a result of our
R&D efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past
years including the Virtex-5 and Virtex-4 series of FPGAs, and the Spartan-3
FPGA series. Additionally, we have made major enhancements to our IP core
offerings and introduced new versions of our ISE software. To support embedded
processing and DSP design on our platform FPGA devices, the Platform Studio tool
suite and System Generator for DSP have been further enhanced. We extended our
collaboration with our foundry suppliers in the development of 90-nm and 65-nm
complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we
are the first company in the PLD industry to ship 65-nm devices.
Our R&D challenge is to continue to
develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. In
fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, our R&D expenses were $358.1 million, $388.1
million and $326.1 million, respectively. We believe technical leadership and innovation
are essential to our future success and we are committed to continuing a
significant level of R&D effort.
Sales and
Distribution
We sell our products to OEMs and to
electronic components distributors who resell these products to OEMs or
subcontract manufacturers.
We use dedicated global sales and
marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate
sales. In general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited
number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing
those customers in defined territories. Distributors create demand within the
balance of our customer base. Distributors also provide vendor-managed
inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our OEM
customers.
Whether Xilinx, the independent sales
representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local
distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. In
such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they
bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial
goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign
currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty liability.
In accordance with our distribution
agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the
contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic
basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a
subsequent change in list prices. Revenue recognition on shipments to
distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the
distributors’ end customers.
7


Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) distributes the
substantial majority of our products worldwide. No end customer accounted for
more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006. As of March 29,
2008 and March 31, 2007, Avnet accounted for 83% and 86% of the Company’s total
accounts receivable, respectively. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for
61%, 67% and 70% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively. We also use other regional distributors throughout the
world. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific
geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business and their
performance. We believe distributors provide a cost-effective means of reaching
a broad range of customers while providing efficient logistics services. Since
PLDs are standard products, they do not present many of the inventory risks to
distributors posed by custom gate arrays, and they simplify the requirements for
distributor technical support. See Note 2 to our consolidated financial
statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,”
for information about concentrations of credit risk and Note 15 for information about our revenues from
external customers and domestic and international operations.
Backlog
As of March 29, 2008, our backlog from
OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors
scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $202.0 million, compared
to $190.0 million as of March 31, 2007. Orders from end customers to our
distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation
without significant penalty. As a result, backlogs from both OEM customers and
end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not
be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period.
Wafer Fabrication
As a fabless semiconductor company, we
do not manufacture wafers used for our products. Rather, we purchase wafers from
multiple foundries including United Microelectronics Corporation (UMC), Toshiba
Corporation (Toshiba), Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko) and He Jian Technology
(Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Currently, UMC manufactures the substantial majority of our
wafers. Precise terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production
and the pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined
by our periodic negotiations with the wafer foundries.
Our strategy is to focus our resources
on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than
on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry
relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well
as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies.
In September 1995, we entered into a
joint venture with UMC and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication
facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC). In January 2000, as a
result of the merger of USIC into UMC, our equity position in USIC was converted
into shares of UMC, which are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In
fiscal 2007, we sold a portion of our UMC shares and we sold the remaining
shares of our UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008. Also see Note
4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data.”
In fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer
purchasing agreement with Seiko that was amended in fiscal 1998, 1999 and 2000.
Seiko manufactures wafers for our older, more mature product lines.
In October 2004, the Company entered
into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid
Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment
of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The original agreement was
extended to December 2008. The balance of the advance payment remaining was $4.5
million at March 29, 2008.
Sort, Assembly and
Test
Wafers purchased are sorted by the
foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by Xilinx. Sorted die are assembled
by subcontractors. During the assembly process, the wafers are separated into
individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. Following
assembly, the packaged units are tested by Xilinx personnel at our San Jose,
California, Dublin, Ireland or Singapore facilities or by independent test
subcontractors. We purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing
services from Siliconware Precision Industries Ltd. in Taiwan, Amkor Technology,
Inc. in Korea and the Philippines and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. in
Singapore.
Quality Certification
Xilinx has achieved ISO 9001 quality
certification in our San Jose, California, Dublin, Ireland, Longmont, Colorado, Singapore and
Albuquerque locations. In addition, Xilinx achieved
8


ISO 14001, TL 9000 and TS 16949
environmental and quality certifications in the San Jose, Dublin and Singapore
locations and TL 9000 and TS16949 quality certifications in the Albuquerque
location.
Patents and Licenses
While our various proprietary
intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our
business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or
license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. As of March 29, 2008,
we held 1,785 issued United States patents relating to our products, which vary
in duration. We maintain an active program of filing for additional patents in
the areas of, but not limited to, software, IC architecture, system design,
testing methodologies and other technologies relating to PLDs. We intend to
vigorously protect our intellectual property. We believe that failure to enforce
our intellectual property rights (for example, patents, copyrights and
trademarks) or failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In the
future, we may incur litigation expenses to enforce our intellectual property
rights against third parties. However, any such litigation may or may not be
successful.
We have acquired various software
licenses that permit us to grant sublicenses to our customers for certain third
party software programs licensed with our software design tools. In addition, we
have licensed certain software for internal use in product design. We are also
licensed under certain third party patents and have provided some third parties
licenses under Company patents.
Employees
As of March 29, 2008, we had 3,415
employees compared to 3,353 at the end of the prior fiscal year. None of our
employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work
stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations.
Executive Officers of the
Registrant
Certain information regarding the
executive officers of Xilinx as of May 28, 2008 is set forth below: 


  
    Name 
     
          
    Age 
          
    Position  
  
    Moshe
      N. Gavrielov  
    
     53 
    
    President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) 
    
  
    Scott
      R. Hover-Smoot  
    
     53 
    
    Vice President, General
      Counsel and Secretary  
  
    Patrick W. Little  
     
     45 
    
    Senior Vice President, Products and Market
      Development  
  
    Jon
      A. Olson  
    
     54 
    
    Senior Vice President,
      Finance and Chief Financial Officer (CFO)  
  
    Boon
      C. Ooi  
     
     54 
    
    Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and
      Business Process Reengineering  
  
    Victor Peng  
    
     48 
     
    Senior Vice President,
      Silicon Engineering Group  
  
    Vincent F. Ratford  
    
     56 
    
    Senior Vice President, Solutions Development
      Group  
  
    Frank
      A. Tornaghi  
    
     53 
    
    Senior Vice President,
      Worldwide Sales  
There are no family relationships among
the executive officers of the Company or the Board of Directors.
Moshe N. Gavrielov joined the Company
in January 2008 as President and CEO and was appointed to the Board of Directors
in February 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Cadence Design
Systems, Inc., an electronic design automation company, as Executive Vice
President and General Manager of the Verification Division from April 2005
through November 2007. Mr. Gavrielov served as CEO of Verisity Ltd., an
electronic design automation company, from March 1998 to April 2005 prior to its
acquisition by Cadence Design Systems, Inc. Prior to joining Verisity, Mr.
Gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at LSI Corporation (formerly LSI Logic
Corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management
positions, including Executive Vice President of the Products Group, Senior Vice
President and General Manager of International Marketing and Sales and Senior
Vice President and General Manager of LSI Logic Europe plc. Prior to joining LSI
Corporation, Mr. Gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management
positions at Digital Equipment Corporation and National Semiconductor
Corporation.
Scott R. Hover-Smoot joined the Company
in October 2007 as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. From November
2001 to October 2007, Mr. Hover-Smoot served as Regional Counsel and Director of
Legal Operations with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., an
independent semiconductor foundry. He served as Vice President and General
Counsel of California Micro Devices Corporation, a provider of
application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from
June 1994 to November 2001. Prior to joining California Micro Devices
Corporation, Mr. Hover-Smoot spent over 20 years working in law firms including
Berliner-Cohen, Flehr, Hohbach, Test, Albritton & Herbert, and Lyon &
Lyon.
9


Patrick W. Little joined the Company in
March 2003 as Vice President and General Manager. He was promoted in March 2005
to Vice President of Worldwide Sales and to Vice President, Worldwide Sales and
Services in December 2005. Mr. Little assumed the position of Vice President and
General Manager in February 2008. He was promoted to his current position of
Senior Vice President, Products and Market Development in April 2008. From
September 1999 to March 2003, he served as President and CEO of Believe, Inc., a
computer graphics imaging company. Mr. Little served as Executive Vice President
of Sales and Marketing at Rendition, Inc., a graphics IC company, from March
1998 to September 1999. He was General Manager of the Audio Business Division of
Diamond Multimedia Systems, Inc., and held various senior management positions
at Trident Microsystems, Inc. and Opti, Inc., from 1992 to 1998.
Jon A. Olson joined the Company in June
2005 as Vice President, Finance and CFO. Mr. Olson was
promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President, Finance and CFO in August 2006. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Olson spent
more than 25 years at Intel Corporation, a semiconductor chip maker, serving in
a variety of positions, including Vice President, Finance and Enterprise
Services, Director of Finance.
Boon C. Ooi joined the Company in
November 2003 as Vice President, Worldwide Operations. Mr. Ooi was promoted to
his current position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations and Business
Process Reengineering in November 2007. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Ooi
spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation serving in a variety of positions,
including Vice President of the Corporate Technology Group and Director of
Operations.
Victor Peng joined the Company in April
2008 as Senior Vice President, Silicon Engineering Group. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Peng served as Corporate Vice President, Graphics Products Group at
Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), a provider of processing solutions, from November
2005 to April 2008. Before joining AMD, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of
Silicon Engineering in the Graphics Products Group business unit at ATI
Technologies, a graphics processor unit provider, from April 2005 until its
acquisition by AMD. Before joining ATI Technologies, Mr. Peng served as Vice
President of Engineering at TZero Technologies, a fabless semiconductor company,
from September 2004 to April 2005. From November 2000 to September 2004, Mr.
Peng served as Vice President of Engineering at MIPS Technologies, a
semiconductor design IP company.
Vincent F. Ratford joined the Company
in January 2006 as Vice President of Marketing, Business Development and Silicon
Architecture. Mr. Ratford was promoted to Vice President and General Manager in
October 2007. He was promoted to his current position of Senior Vice President,
Solutions Development Group in April 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he
served as President and CEO of AccelChip, Inc. (AccelChip), a provider of
synthesis software tools for designing DSP systems, from July 2004 until its
acquisition by Xilinx in January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Ratford operated the
consulting firm, DeepTech Consulting, from April 2002 to July 2004. Mr. Ratford
worked at Virage Logic Corporation, a provider of semiconductor IP, as Vice
President of Marketing and Business Development from July 2000 to April 2002 and
as Vice President of Sales and Marketing from February 1998 to July 2000. Before
joining Virage Logic, Mr. Ratford served as Chief Operating Officer of the
Microtec Division of Mentor Graphics, a provider of hardware and software design
solutions to semiconductor companies, from October 1995 to December 1997. Before
joining the Microtec Division, he was Director of Marketing for Mentor Graphics’
System Design Division from May 1993 to October 1995.
Frank A. Tornaghi joined the Company in
February 2008 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and was promoted to his current
position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales in April 2008. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Tornaghi spent 22 years at LSI Corporation. Mr.
Tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from April 2006 until he joined the
Company. He served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales at LSI
Corporation from July 2001 to April 2006 and as Vice President, North America
Sales, from May 1993 to July 2001. From 1984 until May 1993, Mr. Tornaghi held
various management positions in sales at LSI Corporation.
Additional
Information
Our Internet address is www.xilinx.com. We make available, via a link through our investor relations website
located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our
Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All
such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge.
Printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without
charge, upon written request directed to Xilinx, Inc., Attn: Investor Relations,
2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, CA 95124. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW,
Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference
Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an
Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other
information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. The content on any
website referred to in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this
filing unless expressly noted otherwise.
10


Additional information required by this
Item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned “Net Revenues – Net
Revenues by Geography” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and to Note 14 to our
consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data.”
This annual report includes trademarks
and service marks of Xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and
registered in the United States and other countries.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
The following risk factors and other
information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully
considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks
to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the
Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may
impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to
occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could
be materially adversely affected.
The semiconductor industry is
characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn
could adversely affect our operating results.
The semiconductor industry is highly
cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the
industry. The down cycles are generally characterized by price erosion and
weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand for our products resulting from
economic conditions in the end markets we serve and reduced capital spending by
our customers can result in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding
inventory write-downs. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as
soon as possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and
timely reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our
past results are much less reliable predictors of the future than with companies
in older, more stable industries.
The nature of our business makes our
revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our
business.
In addition to the challenging market
conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our
products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends
upon our products being designed into our end customer’s products and those
products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our products, the
design to production process requires a substantial amount of time, frequently
longer than a year. In addition, we are increasingly dependent upon “turns,”
orders received and turned for shipment in the same quarter and we have
historically derived a significant portion of our quarterly revenue during the
last weeks of the quarter. These factors make it difficult for us to forecast
future sales and project quarterly revenues. The difficulty in forecasting
future sales impairs our ability to project our inventory requirements, which
could result in inventory write-downs or failure to meet customer requirements.
In addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to
provide forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance.
Global economic conditions, the
economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency
fluctuations could negatively impact our financial condition and results of
operations.
We derive a substantial portion of our
revenues from international sales. International sales accounted for
approximately 61% of our net revenues in fiscal 2008, and 60% and 59% of our net
revenues in fiscal 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also have significant
international operations, including foreign sales offices to support our
international customers and distributors and our regional headquarters in
Ireland and Singapore. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject us to
the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and regulatory
environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could be
adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which we
do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates
affecting those countries. For example, we have sales and operations in the Asia
Pacific region, Japan and Europe. Past economic weakness in these markets
adversely affected revenues, and such conditions may occur in the future. Sales
to all direct OEMs and distributors are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the
recent movement of the Euro and Yen against the U.S. dollar had no material
impact to our business, increased volatility could impact our European and
Japanese customers. Currency instability may increase credit risks for some of
our customers and may impair our customers' ability to repay existing
obligations. Increased currency volatility could also positively or negatively
impact our foreign currency denominated costs, assets and liabilities.
Furthermore, because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy,
instability in worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by
political instability, terrorist activity or U.S. military actions could impact
economic activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our
customers. Any or all of these factors could adversely affect our financial
condition and results of operations in the future.
11




We are subject to the risks associated
with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could adversely
affect our business.
In addition to international sales and
support operations, we purchase our wafers from foreign foundries and have our
commercial products assembled, packaged and tested by subcontractors located
outside the U.S. All of these activities are subject to the uncertainties
associated with international business operations, including tax laws and
regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations,
duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies,
other foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for IP, longer
receivable collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or
shipments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition and/or operating results. Additional factors that could
adversely affect us due to our international operations include rising oil
prices and increased costs of natural resources. Moreover, our financial
condition and results of operations could be affected in the event of political
conflicts or economic crises in countries where our main wafer providers, end
customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and test services
worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or conditions of our
international business operations could have a material adverse effect on our
business. 
Our success depends on our ability to
develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material
adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Our success depends in large part on our
ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer requirements
and compete effectively on the basis of price, density, functionality, power
consumption and performance. The success of new product introductions is
dependent upon several factors, including: 

  timely completion of new product designs;
  ability to generate new design opportunities or “design
  wins”; 
  availability of specialized field application engineering
  resources supporting demand creation and customer adoption of new
  products;
  ability to utilize advanced manufacturing process
  technologies on circuit geometries of 65nm and smaller;
  achieving acceptable yields;
  ability to obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer
  foundries and assembly subcontractors;
  ability to obtain advanced packaging;
  availability of supporting software design tools;
  utilization of predefined IP cores of logic;
  customer acceptance of advanced features in our new products;
  and
  successful deployment of electronic systems by our
  customers.
Our product development efforts may not be
successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may not
achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per unit
cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to
decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result,
we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our
newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our
current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and
corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on
introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other
price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining
consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product
introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our
products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected. 
We are dependent on independent
foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem
or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our
operations.
During fiscal 2008, nearly all of our
wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or
Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the
pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by
periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually
result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or
allocation commitments. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC,
which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce
wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes
include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies
and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields, and deliver them
in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our
wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the
realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due
to limitations of new and 
12 


existing process technologies.
Furthermore, we cannot guarantee our foundries will be able to manufacture
sufficient quantities of our products. Any manufacturing problem or insufficient
foundry capacity could disrupt our operations.
We have established other sources of wafer
supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of wafers.
However, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry relationships
requires the investment of management resources as well as additional costs. If
we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could adversely affect our
results of operations. 
Increased costs of wafers and
materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our
gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. 
If greater demand for wafers produced by
the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market demand
for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of wafers
and other materials could become limited. Such shortages raise the likelihood of
potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages in materials at
our production and test facilities. Such increases in wafer prices or materials
could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials
would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands.
Earthquakes and other natural disasters
could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our financial
condition and results of operations.
The independent foundries, upon which we
rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore
facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other
natural disasters. UMC’s foundries in Taiwan and Toshiba’s and Seiko’s foundries
in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas
that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been
affected by other natural disasters. Any catastrophic event in these locations
will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. This type
of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products,
thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of
operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any
reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as
well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas
or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.
We are dependent on independent
subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or
disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and
results of operations. 
We are also dependent on subcontractors to
provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. Any
prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost
attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test
or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek
alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse
effect on our ability to meet customer demands. These factors would result in
reduced net revenues and could negatively impact our financial condition and
results of operations.
If we are not able to successfully
compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be
adversely affected.
Our PLDs compete in the logic IC industry,
an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid
technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and
continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD
competitors, Altera Corporation, Lattice Semiconductor Corporation and
Actel Corporation, from the ASIC market, which has been ongoing since the
inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new companies that may enter
the traditional programmable logic market segment. We believe that important
competitive factors in the logic industry include: 

  product pricing;
  time-to-market;
  product performance, reliability, quality, power consumption
  and density;
  field upgradability;
  adaptability of products to specific applications;
  ease of use and functionality of software design
tools;
  availability and functionality of predefined IP cores of
  logic;
  inventory management;
  access to leading-edge process technology and assembly
  capacity; and
  ability to provide timely customer service and
  support.
13


Our strategy for expansion in the logic
market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address
high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance,
high-density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions
proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products.
However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies.
Other competitors include manufacturers
of:

  high-density programmable logic products
  characterized by FPGA-type architectures;
  high-volume and low-cost FPGAs as programmable replacements
  for ASICs and ASSPs;
  ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded
  programmable logic;
  high-speed, low-density CPLDs;
  high-performance DSP devices;
  products with embedded processors;
  products with embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and

  other new or emerging programmable logic
products.
Several companies have introduced products
that compete with ours or have announced their intention to enter the PLD market
segment. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected. 
The benefits of programmable logic have
attracted a number of competitors to the market segment. We recognize that
different applications require different programmable technologies, and we are
developing architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer
needs. Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we
have developed common software design tools that support the full range of our
IC products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant
competitive factors in the PLD market segment. 
We could also face competition from our
licensees. In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with
respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future.
Granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market
products that may be competitive with some of our older products.
Our failure to protect and defend our
intellectual properly could impair our ability to compete
effectively.
We rely upon patent, copyright, trade
secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We
cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be
successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or
challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have
asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to
technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement
claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. Assertions by third parties
may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in
such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third
parties on commercially reasonable terms. Any infringement claim,
indemnification claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property
could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.
Considerable amounts of our common
shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and
debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the
market price of our common shares.

As of March 29, 2008, we had 2.00 billion
authorized common shares, of which 280.5 million shares were outstanding. In
addition, 68.9 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to our
equity incentive plans and 1990 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (Employee
Stock Purchase Plan), and 32.1 million shares were reserved for issuance upon
conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible debentures due March 15, 2037
(debentures). The availability of substantial amounts of our common shares
resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our
equity incentive plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using
common shares, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders, could adversely
affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could impair our
ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity
securities.
We rely on information technology
systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in
business disruption. 
We rely in part on various information
technology (IT) systems to manage our operations including financial reporting
and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as
necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing,
operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. Any delay in the
implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems,
procedures or controls, could harm our ability to record and 
14 


report financial and management
information on a timely and accurate basis. Further, these systems are subject
to power and telecommunication outages or other general system failure. Failure
of our IT systems or difficulties in managing them could result in business
disruption. 
If we do not successfully manage the
transitions associated with our new management, our ability to compete could be
adversely affected. 
On January 7, 2008, we announced the
appointment of Moshe N. Gavrielov as our new President and CEO concurrent with
the retirement of Willem P. Roelandts from these positions. Our new CEO has made
organizational changes, including changes to our management team and may make
future changes to our Company’s structure. It is important for us to
successfully manage these transitions as our failure to do so could adversely
affect our ability to compete effectively. 
If we are unable to maintain effective
internal controls, our stock price could be adversely affected.
We are subject to the ongoing internal
control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act).
Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate
effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The
identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could
indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and
could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. Further,
our internal control effectiveness may be impacted if we are unable to retain
sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the
increased demand for such personnel among publicly traded companies. 
Unfavorable results of legal
proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating
results. 
From time to time we are subject to
various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of
our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are
discussed in Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," and additional claims may arise in the
future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.
Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to
our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management
attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks.
Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of
these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be
faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that
would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might
materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.

We are exposed to fluctuations in
interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our
portfolio investments which could adversely impact our financial condition and
results of operations.
Our cash, short-term and long-term
investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating and
even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements and financial
market conditions. Since September 2007, the global credit markets have
experienced adverse conditions due to the increased concerns related to the U.S.
sub-prime mortgage market that have negatively impacted the values of various
types of investment and non-investment grade securities. As of March 29, 2008,
approximately 4% of our investment portfolio consisted of AAA-rated auction rate
securities which are secured primarily by pools of student loans originated
under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) that are guaranteed by
the U. S. Department of Education. These securities experienced failed auctions
in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global
credit markets. In a failed auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum
rate defined by the contractual terms for each security. We have collected and
expect to collect all interest payable on these securities when due. As of March
29, 2008, the securities were reclassified from short-term to long-term
investments on the consolidated balance sheet to reflect the securities’ final
maturity dates since there can be no assurance of a successful auction in the
future. The auction rate securities described above are a type of asset-backed
securities. All other asset-backed securities comprised less than 5% of our
investment portfolio as of March 29, 2008 and were all AAA rated with the
exception of approximately $37.0 million of asset-backed securities that were
downgraded in April 2008 to AA or A rating. These asset-backed securities are
secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations,
collateralized loan and bank obligations, mortgage-backed securities with no
direct sub-prime exposure and credit card debt. Substantially all of the other
mortgage-backed securities in the investment portfolio are AAA rated, were
issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises and agencies and represented
less than 9% of the portfolio as of March 29, 2008. As a result of these recent
adverse conditions in the global credit markets, there is a risk that we may
incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments
such as asset-backed securities should the credit markets experience further
deterioration. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due
to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt and
equity securities is judged to be other-than-temporary. Furthermore, we may
suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have
declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market
conditions. Please see Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements, included
in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for additional
information about our investments.
15 


Our products could have quality
problems which could result in reduced revenues and claims against
us.
We develop complex and evolving
products that include both hardware and software. Despite our testing efforts
and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new
products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and
repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel
from our product development efforts and harm our relationships with customers.
Product defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss
of market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Our
customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability
claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming
and costly to defend. Product liability risks are particularly significant with
respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of
serious harm to users of these products. Any product liability claim, whether or
not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the
efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our
business.
In preparing our financial
statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn
out to be erroneous. 
In preparing our financial statements
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical
accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on
the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most
difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of
marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories,
long-lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock-based compensation. We base
our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we
believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the
basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key
accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application
would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but
which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual
results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates or their
related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we
revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially
affected.
We depend on distributors, primarily
Avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment.

We rely on distributors throughout the
world to assist us in demand creation, technical support, order processing and
order fulfillment. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for 61% of the
Company’s worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2008 and as of March 29, 2008, Avnet
accounted for 83% of our accounts receivable. If a key distributor such as Avnet
materially defaults on a contract or fails to perform, our business and
financial results would suffer. 
Reductions in the average selling
prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins.

The average selling prices of our
products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the
decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost
reductions and increased unit sales. However, there is no guarantee that our
ongoing efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline
in selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in
revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins.
A number of factors can impact our
gross margins.
A number of factors, including our
product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing
dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies and various
manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition,
forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business
is based on turns within the same quarter.
ITEM 1B