Item 1A.
    
    Risk Factors
    
    12
  
    Item
      1B.
    
    Unresolved Staff Comments
    
    18
  
    Item 2.
    
    Properties
    
    18
  
    Item
      3.
    
    Legal
      Proceedings
    
    18
  
    Item 4.
    
    Submission of Matters to a
      Vote of Security Holders
    
    19
  
     
  
    PART II
    
    
    
    
  
     
  
    Item
      5.
    
    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related
      Stockholder Matters and
    
    20
  
    
    
    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities
    
    
  
    Item 6.
    
    Selected Financial
      Data
    
    22
  
    Item
      7.
    
    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
      Condition and Results
    
    23
  
    
    
    of
      Operations
    
    
  
    Item 7A.
    
    Quantitative and
      Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk
    
    37
  
    Item
      8.
    
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
    
    39
  
    Item 9.
    
    Changes in and
      Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    
    74
  
    
    
    Financial
    Disclosure
    
    
  
    Item
      9A.
    
    Controls and Procedures
    
    74
  
    Item 9B.
    
    Other
Information
    
    74
  
     
  
    PART III
    
    
    
    
  
     
  
    Item
      10.
    
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
      Governance
    
    75
  
    Item 11.
    
    Executive
      Compensation
    
    75
  
    Item
      12.
    
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
      Management
    
    75
  
    
    
    and
      Related Stockholder Matters
    
    
  
    Item 13.
    
    Certain Relationships and
      Related Transactions, and Director Independence
    
    77
  
    Item
      14.
    
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services
    
    77
  
     
  
    PART IV
    
    
    
    
  
     
  
    Item
      15.
     
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
    
    78
  
    Signatures
    
    
    
    80
2


PART I 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

This Annual Report on Form 10-K
contains forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements may be found
throughout this Annual Report and particularly in Items 1. “Business” and 3.
“Legal Proceedings” which contain discussions concerning our development
efforts, strategy, new product introductions, backlog and litigation.
Forward-looking statements involve numerous known and unknown risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially and adversely
from those expressed or implied. Such risks include, but are not limited to,
those discussed throughout this document as well as in Item 1A. "Risk Factors."
Often, forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of
forward-looking words, such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expect,”
“believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “continue,” “plan,” “intend,” “project” and
other similar terminology, or the negative of such terms. We disclaim any
responsibility to update or revise any forward-looking statement provided in
this Annual Report or in any of our other communications for any reason.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
Xilinx, Inc. (Xilinx or the Company)
designs, develops and markets complete programmable logic solutions. These
solutions have several components: 

  Advanced integrated circuits (ICs) in the form of
  programmable logic devices (PLDs);
  Software design tools to program the PLDs;
  Predefined system functions delivered as
  intellectual property (IP) cores;
  Design services;
  Customer training; and
  Field engineering and technical
  support.
Our PLDs include field programmable
gate arrays (FPGAs) and complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs) that our
customers program to perform desired logic functions. Our solutions are designed
to provide high integration and quick time-to-market for electronic equipment
manufacturers in end markets such as wired and wireless communications,
industrial, scientific and medical, aerospace and defense, audio, video and
broadcast, consumer, automotive and data processing. We sell our products
globally through independent domestic and foreign distributors and through
direct sales to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) by a network of
independent sales representative firms and by a direct sales management
organization.
Xilinx was founded and incorporated in
California in February 1984. In April 1990, the Company reincorporated in
Delaware. Our corporate facilities and executive offices are located at 2100
Logic Drive, San Jose, California 95124, and our website address is
www.xilinx.com. 
Industry Overview
There are three principal types of ICs
used in most digital electronic systems: processors, which generally are
utilized for control and computing tasks; memory devices, which are used for
storing program instructions and data; and logic devices, which generally are
used to manage the interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a
system. Xilinx develops PLDs, a type of logic device. Alternatives to PLDs
include custom gate arrays, application specific integrated circuits (ASICs) and
application specific standard products (ASSPs). These devices all compete with
each other since they may be utilized in many of the same types of applications
within electronic systems. However, variations in unit pricing, development
cost, product performance, reliability, power consumption, density,
functionality, ease of use and time-to-market determine the degree to which the
devices compete for specific applications.
The primary advantage PLDs have over
custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs is that PLDs enable faster time-to-market
because of their shorter design cycles. Users can program the PLD to implement
their design, using software to create and revise their designs relatively
quickly with lower development costs. PLDs typically have a larger die size
resulting in higher costs per unit compared to custom gate arrays, ASICs and
ASSPs, which are customized to perform a limited fixed function. Custom gate
arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, however, generally offer less flexibility, require
longer design cycles and higher up-front costs than PLDs.
PLDs are standard components. This
means that the same device type can be sold to many different users for many
different applications. As a result, the development cost of PLDs can be spread
over a large number of users. Custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs, on the other
hand, are custom chips for an individual user for use in a specific application.
ASSPs implement specific functions for a limited set of users. This involves a
high up-front cost to users. Technology advances are enabling PLD companies to
reduce costs considerably, making PLDs an increasingly attractive alternative to
custom gate arrays, ASICs and ASSPs.
3


An overview of typical PLD end market
applications for our products is shown in the following table: 


  
    End
      Markets  
    Sub-Segments  
    Applications   
  
     
    
    
  
    Communications  
    Wireless  
    
      
        3G/4G Base Stations
        Wireless Backhaul 
  
    
     
    
  
      
    Wireline  
    
      
        Metro Area Networks
        Optical Networks
        Enterprise Switches
        Mid-end and High-end
      Routers
  
     
    
     
    
  
    Consumer, Automotive,Industrial and
      Other    
    Consumer  
    
      
        Flat-Panel Televisions
        Digital Video Recorders
        Cable Set-Top Boxes
  
    
     
    
  
      
    Automotive  
    
      
        GPS Navigation Systems
        Rear-Seat Entertainment
        Vision-Based Driver Assistance
        Systems
  
    
     
    
  
      
    Industrial, Scientific and Medical    
    
      
        Factory Automation
        Medical Imaging
        Test and Measurement
    Equipment
  
      
     
    
  
      
    Audio, Video and Broadcast  
    
      
        Cable Head-end Systems
        Broadcast Equipment
        Video Cameras
  
    
     
    
  
      
    Aerospace and Defense  
    
      
        Satellite Surveillance
        Radar and Sonar Systems
        Secure Communications
  
    
     
    
  
    Data Processing  
    Storage and Servers  
    
      
        Security and Encryption
        Computer Peripherals 
  
    
     
    
  
      
    Office Automation  
    
      
        Copiers
        Printers
Products 
Integral to the success of our business
is the timely introduction of new products that meet customer requirements and
compete effectively with respect to price, functionality, power and performance.
Software design tools, IP cores, reference platforms, technical support and
design services are also critical components that enable our customers to
implement their design specifications into our PLDs. Altogether, our PLDs and
related tools, IP, service and support form a comprehensive programmable logic
solution. A brief overview of our PLD offerings follows and is not all-inclusive
but does comprise the majority of our revenues. Some of our more mature product
families have been excluded from the table although they continue to generate
revenues. We operate and track our results in one operating segment for
financial reporting purposes. 
4


Product Families 



  
    
    
    
    Process
    
  
    FPGAs
    Date
      Introduced
    Densities
    Technology
    Voltage
  
    
    
    75K to 760K
    
    
  
    Virtex®-6
    February 2009
    Logic Cells
    40-nanometer (nm)
    1.0v, 0.9v
  
    
    
    20K to 330K
    
    
  
    Virtex-5
    May 2006
    Logic Cells
    65nm
    1.0v
  
    
    
    12K to 200K
    
    
  
    Virtex-4
    June 2004
    Logic Cells
    90nm
    1.2v
  
    
    
    3K to 99K
    
    
  
    Virtex-II Pro
    March 2002
    Logic Cells
    130nm
    1.5v
  
    
    
    576 to 104K
    
    
  
    Virtex-II
    January 2001
    Logic Cells
    150nm
    1.5v
  
    
    
    1.7K to 73K
     
    
  
    Virtex-E
    September 1999
    Logic Cells
    180nm
    1.8v
  
    
    
    4K to 150K Logic
    
    
  
    Spartan®-6
    February 2009
    Cells
    45nm
    1.2v, 1.0v
  
    
    
    1.6K to 54K
    
    
  
    Spartan-3A
    December 2006
    Logic Cells
    90nm
    1.2v
  
    
    
    2.2K to 33.2K
    
    
  
    Spartan-3E
    March 2005
    Logic Cells
    90nm
    1.2v
  
    
    
    1.7K to 75K Logic
    
    
  
    Spartan-3
    April 2003
    Cells
    90nm
    1.2v
  
    
    
    1.7K to 16K Logic
    
    
  
    Spartan-IIE
    November 2001
    Cells
    150nm
    1.8v
  
     
  
    
    
    
    Process
    
  
    CPLDs
    Date
      Introduced
    Densities
    Technology
    Voltage
  
    
    
    32 to 512
    
    
  
    CoolRunner™-II
    January 2002
    Macrocells
    180nm
    1.8v
  
    
    
    32 to 512
    
    
  
    CoolRunner 
    August 1999
    Macrocells
    350nm
    3.3v
      
Virtex FPGAs 
The Virtex-6 FPGA family consists of 13
devices and is the sixth generation in the Virtex series of FPGAs. Virtex-6
FPGAs are fabricated on a high-performance, 40-nm process technology. The
Virtex-6 family is comprised of three domain-optimized platforms to deliver
different feature mixes to address a variety of markets as follows: 

  LXT platform: for applications that require
  high-performance logic, digital signal processing (DSP), and serial
  connectivity;
  SXT platform: for applications that require ultra
  high-performance DSP and serial connectivity;
  HXT platform: for communications applications that
  require the highest-speed serial connectivity.
The Virtex-5 FPGA family consists of 26
devices and five platforms: Virtex-5 LX FPGAs for logic-intensive designs,
Virtex-5 LXT FPGAs for high-performance logic with serial connectivity, Virtex-5
SXT FPGAs for high-performance DSP with serial connectivity, Virtex-5 FXT FPGAs
for embedded processing with serial connectivity and Virtex-5 TXT FPGAs for
high-bandwidth serial connectivity.

Prior generation Virtex families
include Virtex-4, Virtex-II Pro, Virtex-II, Virtex-E and the original Virtex
family.
5


      
Spartan FPGAs 
The sixth generation in the Spartan
FPGA series, the Spartan-6 FPGA family, is fabricated on a low-power 45-nm
process technology. The Spartan-6 family is the PLD industry’s first 45-nm
high-volume FPGA family. The family consists of 11 devices and is delivered on
two FPGA platforms to address diverse market and application requirements as
follows:

  LX platform: for applications that require
  cost-effective logic, memory and DSP; 
  LXT platform: for applications that require LX
  features plus high-speed serial transceivers.
Spartan-3 FPGAs were the PLD industry’s first 90-nm FPGAs
and are comprised of three platforms including the original Spartan-3 family,
the Spartan-3E family and the Spartan-3A family. 
Prior generation Spartan families
include Spartan-IIE, Spartan-II, Spartan XL and the original Spartan
family.
      
EasyPath FPGAs 
EasyPath™ FPGAs use the same production
masks and fabrication process as standard FPGAs and are tested to a specific
customer application to improve yield and lower costs. As a result, EasyPath
FPGAs provide customers with significant cost reduction when compared to the
standard FPGA devices without the conversion risk, conversion engineering effort
or the additional time required to move to an ASIC. EasyPath FPGAs are available
for the higher density devices of the Virtex-II Pro, Virtex-4 and Virtex-5
families. EasyPath FPGAs will also be available for the higher densities of the
Virtex-6 family. Customers purchasing EasyPath FPGAs must meet certain minimum
order requirements and pay a custom test generation charge. 
       CPLDs 
CPLDs operate on the low end of the
programmable logic density spectrum. CPLDs are single chip, nonvolatile
solutions characterized by instant-on and universal interconnect. 
The CoolRunner-II family is the latest
generation Xilinx CPLD family with six devices in production. CoolRunner-II
CPLDs combine the advantages of ultra low power consumption with the benefits of
high performance and low cost. While CoolRunner-II is suitable for a wide
variety of end markets and applications, the ultra low power consumption and
small package profiles of these devices have led to their acceptance in the
growing portable consumer electronics marketplace. 
Prior generation CPLD families include
the CoolRunner, XC9500 and XC9500XL, which offer low cost, high performance and
in-system programmability for 5.0-volt and 3.3-volt systems,
respectively.
Support Products 
       Targeted Design Platforms

We offer Targeted Design Platforms
comprised of reference designs, target boards, application software, design
tools, IP and silicon to reduce our customers’ development effort. Targeted
Design Platforms are organized into three levels: the Base Platform; the
Domain-Specific Platform; and the Market-Specific Platform to offer customers
flexibility, accessibility, applicability and time-to-market.
The Base Platform is the delivery
vehicle for all new silicon offerings used to develop and run customer-specific
software applications and hardware designs. Released at launch, the Base
Platform is comprised of: FPGA silicon; ISE® (Integrated Software Environment)
Design Suite design environment; third-party synthesis, simulation, and signal
integrity tools; reference designs; development boards and IP. 
The Domain-Specific Platform targets
one of the three primary Xilinx FPGA user profiles: the embedded processing
developer; the DSP developer; or the logic/connectivity developer. It
accomplishes this by augmenting the Base Platform with a targeted set of
integrated technologies, including: higher-level design methodologies and tools;
domain-specific IP including embedded, DSP and connectivity; domain-specific
development hardware and reference designs; and operating systems and software.

The Market-Specific Platform enables
software or hardware developers to quickly build and run their specific
application or solution. Built for specific markets such as automotive,
consumer, aerospace and defense, communications, audio, video and broadcast,
industrial, or scientific and medical, the Market-Specific Platform integrates
both the Base and Domain-Specific Platforms with higher targeted applications
elements such as IP, reference designs and boards optimized for a particular
market. 
6


       Design Environments 
To accommodate the various design
methodologies and design flows employed by the wide range of our customers’ user
profiles such as system designers, algorithm designers, software coders and
logic designers, we provide the appropriate design environment tailored to each
user profile for design creation, design implementation and design verification.

The Xilinx ISE® Design Suite features a
complete tool chain for the three domain-specific categories: embedded, DSP and
logic/connectivity. To further enhance productivity and help customers better
manage the complexity of their designs, the ISE Design Suite enables designers
to target area, performance, or power by simply selecting a design goal in the
setup. The Xilinx ISE Design Suite also integrates with a wide range of
third-party electronic design automation (EDA) software offerings and
point-tools.
      
Intellectual Property
Xilinx and various third parties offer
hundreds of free and for-license IP components to meet timing parameters,
including a host of widely used IP such as GigE, Ethernet, memory controllers,
and PCIe®, as well as an abundance of domain-specific IP, such as embedded, DSP
and connectivity, and market-specific IP.
      
Development Boards, Reference Designs, Kits and Configuration Products

In addition to the broad selection of
legacy development boards presently offered, we have introduced a new unified
board strategy that enables the creation of a standardized and coordinated set
of base boards available both from Xilinx and our ecosystem partners, all
utilizing the industry-standard extensions. Adopting this standard for all of
our base boards enables the creation of a unified, scalable and extensible
delivery mechanism for all Xilinx Targeted Design Platforms. 
As a part of the Targeted Design
Platform support strategy, Xilinx has also defined a new class of reference
designs called the Targeted Reference Designs that offer a consistent, robust
framework that is scalable for customer modification and supported throughout
the product lifecycle. 
We also offer comprehensive development
kits including hardware, design tools, IP and reference designs that are
designed to streamline and accelerate the development of domain-specific and
market-specific applications. 
Finally, Xilinx offers a range of
configuration products including one-time programmable and in-system
programmable storage devices to configure Xilinx FPGAs. These PROM (programmable
read-only memory) products support all of our FPGA devices.
      
Third-Party Ecosystem
Xilinx and certain third parties have
developed and continue to offer a robust ecosystem of IP, boards, tools,
services, and support through the Xilinx alliance program. Xilinx is also moving
forward with these third parties to make Targeted Design Platforms extensible
through third-party tools, IP, software, boards, and design services, and
leveraged in customer designs.
       Global Services 
Xilinx engineering services and our
third-party alliance member services enhance the substantial benefits of the
Targeted Design Platforms by allowing the customer to focus even more on their
core competencies, realize additional time-to-market efficiencies and reduce
their fixed engineering costs. These services provide customers with engineering
resources to augment their design team and to provide expert design-specific
advice. Xilinx tailors its engineering services to the needs of its customer,
ranging from hands-on training to full design creation and implementation.

See information under the caption
“Results of Operations – Net Revenues” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for information about
our revenues from our product families. 
Research and
Development
Our research and development (R&D)
activities are primarily directed towards the design of new ICs, the development
of new software design automation tools for hardware and embedded software, the
design of logic IP cores, the adoption of advanced semiconductor manufacturing
processes for ongoing cost reductions, performance and signal integrity
improvements and the lowering of PLD power consumption. As a result of our
R&D efforts, we have introduced a number of new products during the past
several years including the Virtex-6, Virtex-5 and Spartan-6 families.
Additionally, we have made enhancements to our IP core offerings and introduced
new versions of our ISE Design Suite. We extended our collaboration with our
foundry suppliers in the development of 65-nm, 45-nm and 40-nm complementary
metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) manufacturing technology and we were the first
company in the PLD industry to ship 65-nm and 45-nm high-volume FPGA devices.

7


Our R&D challenge is to continue to
develop new products that create cost-effective solutions for customers. In
fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, our R&D expenses were $355.4 million, $358.1
million and $388.1 million, respectively. We believe technical leadership and innovation
are essential to our future success and we are committed to maintaining a
significant level of R&D investment.
Sales and Distribution

We sell our products to OEMs and to
electronic components distributors who resell these products to OEMs or contract
manufacturers.
We use dedicated global sales and
marketing organizations as well as independent sales representatives to generate
sales. In general, we focus our direct demand creation efforts on a limited
number of key accounts with independent sales representatives often addressing
those customers in defined territories. Distributors create demand within the
balance of our customer base. Distributors also provide vendor-managed
inventory, value-added services and logistics for a wide range of our OEM
customers.
Whether Xilinx, the independent sales
representative, or the distributor identifies the sales opportunity, a local
distributor will process and fulfill the majority of all customer orders. In
such situations, distributors are the sellers of the products and as such they
bear all legal and financial risks generally related to the sale of commercial
goods, such as credit loss, inventory shrinkage and theft, as well as foreign
currency fluctuations, but excluding indemnity and warranty
liability.
In accordance with our distribution
agreements and industry practice, we have granted the distributors the
contractual right to return certain amounts of unsold product on a periodic
basis and also receive price adjustments for unsold product in the case of a
subsequent change in list prices. Revenue recognition on shipments to
distributors worldwide is deferred until the products are sold to the
distributors’ end customers. 
Avnet, Inc. (Avnet) distributes the
substantial majority of our products worldwide. No end customer accounted for
more than 10% of our net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. As of March 28,
2009 and March 29, 2008, Avnet accounted for 81% and 83% of the Company’s total
accounts receivable, respectively. Resale of product through Avnet accounted for
55%, 61% and 67% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008
and 2007, respectively. We also use other regional distributors throughout the
world. From time to time, we may add or terminate distributors in specific
geographies, as we deem appropriate given the level of business, their
performance and financial condition. We believe distributors provide a
cost-effective means of reaching a broad range of customers while providing
efficient logistics services. Since PLDs are standard products, they do not
present many of the inventory risks to distributors posed by custom gate arrays,
and they simplify the requirements for distributor technical support. See “Note
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Concentrations of Risk” to our
consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data,” for information about concentrations of credit risk and
“Note 17. Segment Information” for information about our revenues from external
customers and domestic and international operations. 
Backlog
As of March 28, 2009, our backlog from
OEM customers and backlog from end customers reported by our distributors
scheduled for delivery within the next three months was $162.0 million, compared
to $202.0 million as of March 29, 2008. Orders from end customers to our
distributors are subject to changes in delivery schedules or to cancellation
without significant penalty. As a result, backlogs from both OEM customers and
end customers reported by our distributors as of any particular period may not
be a reliable indicator of revenue for any future period. 
Wafer Fabrication 
As a fabless semiconductor company, we
do not manufacture wafers used for our IC products or PROMs. Rather, we purchase
wafers from multiple foundries including United Microelectronics Corporation
(UMC), Toshiba Corporation (Toshiba), Seiko Epson Corporation (Seiko), Samsung
Electronics Co., Ltd. and He Jian Technology (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Currently, UMC manufactures
the substantial majority of our wafers. Precise terms with respect to the volume
and timing of wafer production and the pricing of wafers produced by the
semiconductor foundries are determined by our periodic negotiations with the
wafer foundries.
Our strategy is to focus our resources
on market development and creating new ICs and software design tools rather than
on wafer fabrication. We continuously evaluate opportunities to enhance foundry
relationships and/or obtain additional capacity from our main suppliers as well
as other suppliers of leading-edge process technologies.
In September 1995, we entered into a
joint venture with UMC and other parties to construct a wafer fabrication
facility in Taiwan, known as United Silicon Inc. (USIC). In January 2000, as a
result of the merger of USIC into UMC, our equity position in USIC was converted
into shares of UMC, which are publicly traded on the Taiwan Stock Exchange. In
fiscal 2007, we sold a portion of our UMC shares and we sold the remaining
shares of our UMC investment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008.
8


In fiscal 1997, we signed a wafer
purchasing agreement with Seiko. Seiko manufactures wafers for some of our most
mature product lines.
In October 2004, the Company entered
into an advanced purchase agreement with Toshiba under which the Company paid
Toshiba a total of $100.0 million in two equal installments for advance payment
of silicon wafers produced under the agreement. The original agreement was
extended to December 2008. The balance of the advance payment remaining was zero
as of March 28, 2009.
Sort, Assembly and Test

Wafers purchased are sorted by the
foundry, independent sort subcontractors, or by Xilinx. Sorted die are assembled
by subcontractors. During the assembly process, the wafers are separated into
individual die, which are then assembled into various package types. Following
assembly, the packaged units are tested by Xilinx personnel at our San Jose,
California, Dublin, Ireland or Singapore facilities or by independent test
subcontractors. We purchase most of our assembly and some of our testing
services from Siliconware Precision Industries Ltd. in Taiwan, Amkor Technology,
Inc. in Korea and the Philippines and STATS ChipPAC Ltd. in
Singapore.
Quality Certification

Xilinx has achieved quality management
systems certification for ISO 9001:2000 for our facilities in San Jose,
California, Dublin, Ireland, Longmont, Colorado, Singapore and Albuquerque, New
Mexico. In addition, Xilinx achieved ISO 14001, TL 9000 and TS 16949
environmental and quality certifications in the San Jose, Dublin and Singapore
locations, TL 9000 certifications in the Longmont and Albuquerque locations and
TS 16949 certifications in the Albuquerque and Hyderabad, India locations.

Patents and Licenses 
While our various proprietary
intellectual property rights are important to our success, we believe our
business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or
license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. As of March 28, 2009,
we held more than 2,000 issued United States (U.S.) patents, which vary in
duration, and over 750 pending U.S. patent applications relating to our
proprietary technology. We maintain an active program of filing for additional
patents in the areas of, but not limited to, circuits, software, IC
architecture, system design, testing methodologies and other technologies
relating to PLDs. We have licensed some parties to certain portions of our
patent portfolio and obtained licenses to certain third-party patents as
well.
We have acquired various licenses from
third parties to certain technologies that are implemented in IP cores or
embedded in our PLDs, such as processors. Those licenses support our continuing
ability to make and sell these PLDs to our customers. We also sublicense certain
third-party proprietary software and open-source software, such as compilers,
for our design tools. Continued use of those software components is important to
the operation of the design tools upon which customers depend.
We maintain the Xilinx trade name as
well as numerous trademarks and registered trademarks including Xilinx, Virtex,
Spartan, ISE, and associated logos. Maintaining these rights, and the goodwill
associated with these trademarks and logos, is important to our business. We
also have license rights to use certain trademarks owned by consortiums and
other trademark owners that are related to our products and business.

We intend to protect our intellectual
property vigorously. We believe that failure to enforce our intellectual
property rights (including, for example, patents, copyrights and trademarks) or
failure to protect our trade secrets effectively could have an adverse effect on
our financial condition and results of operations. In the future, we may incur
potentially significant litigation expenses to defend against claims of
infringement or to enforce our intellectual property rights against third
parties. However, any such litigation may or may not be successful.
Employees 
As of March 28, 2009, we had 3,145
employees compared to 3,415 as of the end of the prior fiscal year. None of our
employees are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any work
stoppages and believe we maintain good employee relations. 
Competition 
Our PLDs compete in the logic IC
industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid
technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and
continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD
competitors, Altera Corporation (Altera), Lattice Semiconductor Corporation
(Lattice) and Actel Corporation (Actel), from the ASIC market, which has been
ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new
companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment.
Other competitors include manufacturers of:
9



  high-density programmable logic products
  characterized by FPGA-type architectures; 
  high-volume and low-cost FPGAs as programmable
  replacements for ASICs and ASSPs; 
  ASICs and
  ASSPs with incremental amounts of embedded programmable logic; 
  high-speed,
  low-density CPLDs; 
  high-performance DSP devices; 
  products with
  embedded processors; 
  products with
  embedded multi-gigabit transceivers; and 
  other new or
  emerging programmable logic products. 
We believe that important competitive
factors in the logic IC industry include: 

  product pricing; 
  time-to-market; 
  product
  performance, reliability, quality, power consumption and density; 
  field
  upgradability; 
  adaptability
  of products to specific applications; 
  ease of use
  and functionality of software design tools; 
  availability
  and functionality of predefined IP cores of logic;
  inventory management; 
  access to
  leading-edge process technology and assembly capacity; and 
  ability to
  provide timely customer service and support. 
Our strategy for expansion in the logic
market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address
high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance,
high-density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions
proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products. We
also recognize that different applications require different programmable
technologies, and we are developing architectures, processes and products to
meet these varying customer needs. To the extent that our efforts to compete are
not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be
materially adversely affected. 
Executive Officers of the
Registrant
Certain information regarding the
executive officers of Xilinx as of June 1, 2009 is set forth below: 


  
    Name
     
          
    Age
          
    Position
  
    Moshe N. Gavrielov
    
    54
    
    President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
  
    Scott
      R. Hover-Smoot
    
    54
    
    Vice President,
      General Counsel and Secretary
  
    Jon A. Olson  
    
    55
    
    Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer
      (CFO)
  
    Victor
      Peng  
     
    49
    
    Senior Vice
      President, Programmable Platforms Development
  
    Raja G. Petrakian
    
    45
     
    Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations
  
    Vincent F. Ratford
    
    57
    
    Senior Vice
      President, Worldwide Marketing
  
    Vincent L. Tong
    
    47
    
    Senior Vice President, Worldwide Quality and New Product
      Introductions
  
    Frank
      A. Tornaghi
    
    54
    
    Senior Vice
      President, Worldwide Sales
There are no family relationships among
the executive officers of the Company or the Board of Directors.
Moshe N. Gavrielov joined the Company
in January 2008 as President and CEO and was appointed to the Board of Directors
in February 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served at Cadence Design
Systems, Inc., an electronic design automation company, as Executive Vice
President and General Manager of the Verification Division from April 2005
through November 2007. Mr. Gavrielov served as CEO of Verisity Ltd., an
electronic design automation company, from March 1998 to April 2005 prior to its
acquisition by Cadence Design Systems, Inc. Prior to joining Verisity, Mr.
Gavrielov spent nearly 10 years at LSI Corporation (formerly LSI Logic
Corporation), a semiconductor manufacturer, in a variety of executive management
positions, including Executive Vice President of the Products Group, Senior Vice
President and General Manager of International Marketing and Sales and Senior
Vice President and General Manager of LSI Logic Europe plc. Prior to joining LSI
Corporation, Mr. Gavrielov held various engineering and engineering management
positions at Digital Equipment Corporation and National Semiconductor
Corporation.
Scott R. Hover-Smoot joined the Company
in October 2007 as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. From November
2001 to October 2007, Mr. Hover-Smoot served as Regional Counsel and Director of
Legal Operations with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., an
independent semiconductor foundry. He served as Vice President and General
Counsel of California Micro Devices Corporation, a provider of
application-specific protection devices and display electronics devices from
June 
10


1994 to November 2001. Prior to joining
California Micro Devices Corporation, Mr. Hover-Smoot spent over 20 years
working in law firms including Berliner-Cohen, Flehr, Hohbach, Test, Albritton
& Herbert, and Lyon & Lyon.
Jon A. Olson joined the Company in June
2005 as Vice President, Finance and CFO. Mr. Olson was promoted to his current
position of Senior Vice President, Finance and CFO in August 2006. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Olson spent more than 25 years at Intel Corporation, a
semiconductor chip maker, serving in a variety of positions, including Vice
President, Finance and Enterprise Services, Director of Finance. 
Victor Peng joined the Company in April
2008 as Senior Vice President, Silicon Engineering Group and assumed his current
position of Senior Vice President, Programmable Platforms Development in
November 2008. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Peng served as Corporate Vice
President, Graphics Products Group at Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), a provider
of processing solutions, from November 2005 to April 2008. Before joining AMD,
Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Silicon Engineering in the Graphics
Products Group business unit at ATI Technologies, a graphics processor unit
provider, from April 2005 until its acquisition by AMD. Before joining ATI
Technologies, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of Engineering at TZero
Technologies, a fabless semiconductor company, from September 2004 to April
2005. From November 2000 to September 2004, Mr. Peng served as Vice President of
Engineering at MIPS Technologies, a semiconductor design IP company. 
Raja G. Petrakian joined the Company in
October 1995 and has served in a number of key roles within Operations, most
recently as Senior Director of Supply Chain Management and Vice President of
Supply Chain Management. Dr. Petrakian was promoted to his current position of
Senior Vice President, Worldwide Operations in March 2009. Prior to joining
Xilinx, Dr. Petrakian spent more than three years at the IBM T.J. Research
Center serving as a research staff member in the Manufacturing Research
Department. 
Vincent F. Ratford joined the Company
in January 2006 as Vice President of Marketing, Business Development and Silicon
Architecture. Mr. Ratford was promoted to Vice President and General Manager in
October 2007. He was promoted to Senior Vice President, Solutions Development
Group in April 2008 and assumed his current position of Senior Vice President,
Worldwide Marketing in November 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served as
President and CEO of AccelChip, Inc. (AccelChip), a provider of synthesis
software tools for designing DSP systems, from July 2004 until its acquisition
by Xilinx in January 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Ratford operated the consulting
firm, DeepTech Consulting, from April 2002 to July 2004. Mr. Ratford worked at
Virage Logic Corporation, a provider of semiconductor IP, as Vice President of
Marketing and Business Development from July 2000 to April 2002 and as Vice
President of Sales and Marketing from February 1998 to July 2000. Before joining
Virage Logic, Mr. Ratford served as Chief Operating Officer of the Microtec
Division of Mentor Graphics, a provider of hardware and software design
solutions to semiconductor companies, from October 1995 to December 1997. Before
joining the Microtec Division, he was Director of Marketing for Mentor Graphics’
System Design Division from May 1993 to October 1995. 
Vincent L. Tong joined the Company in
May 1990 and has served in a number of key roles, most recently as Vice
President of Product Technology and as Vice President, Worldwide Quality and
Reliability. In April 2008, he was promoted to his current position of Senior
Vice President, Worldwide Quality and New Product Introductions. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Tong served in a variety of engineering positions at
Monolithic Memories, a producer of logic devices, and AMD. Mr. Tong serves on
the board of the Global Semiconductor Alliance, a non-profit semiconductor
organization.
Frank A. Tornaghi joined the Company in
February 2008 as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and was promoted to his current
position of Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales in April 2008. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Tornaghi spent 22 years at LSI Corporation. Mr.
Tornaghi acted as an independent consultant from April 2006 until he joined the
Company. He served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales at LSI
Corporation from July 2001 to April 2006 and as Vice President, North America
Sales, from May 1993 to July 2001. From 1984 until May 1993, Mr. Tornaghi held
various management positions in sales at LSI Corporation.
Additional Information

Our Internet address is www.xilinx.com. We make available, via a link through our investor relations website
located at www.investor.xilinx.com, access to our
Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended
(Exchange Act) as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically
filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All
such filings on our investor relations website are available free of charge.
Printed copies of these documents are also available to stockholders without
charge, upon written request directed to Xilinx, Inc., Attn: Investor Relations,
2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, CA 95124. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E.,
Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC
maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. The content on any website referred to in this filing is not
incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted
otherwise.
11


Additional information required by this
Item 1 is incorporated by reference to the section captioned “Net Revenues – Net
Revenues by Geography” in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and to “Note 17. Segment
Information” to our consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8.
“Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 
This annual report includes trademarks
and service marks of Xilinx and other companies that are unregistered and
registered in the United States and other countries. 
ITEM 1A. RISK
FACTORS 
The following risk factors and other
information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully
considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks
to the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the
Company or that the Company’s management currently deems immaterial also may
impair its business operations. If any of the risks described below were to
occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could
be materially adversely affected. 
General economic conditions and the
related deterioration in the global business environment could have a material
adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.

Global consumer confidence has eroded
amidst concerns over declining asset values, inflation, volatility in energy
costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, rising
unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions,
financial markets, businesses and sovereign nations, among other concerns. These
concerns have slowed global economic growth and have resulted in recessions in
numerous countries, including many of those in North America, Europe and Asia.
Recent economic conditions had a negative impact on our results of operations
during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009 due to reduced customer
demand and it is unclear when economic conditions will improve. As these
economic conditions continue to persist, or if they worsen, a number of negative
effects on our business could result, including customers or potential customers
reducing or delaying orders, the insolvency of key suppliers, which could result
in production delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit, and the
insolvency of one or more customers. Any of these effects could impact our
ability to effectively manage inventory levels and collect receivables and
ultimately decrease our net revenues and profitability.
The semiconductor industry is
characterized by cyclical market patterns and a significant industry downturn
could adversely affect our operating results. 
The semiconductor industry is highly
cyclical and our financial performance has been affected by downturns in the
industry, including the current downturn. Down cycles are generally
characterized by price erosion and weaker demand for our products. Weaker demand
for our products resulting from economic conditions in the end markets we serve
and reduced capital spending by our customers can result, and in the past has
resulted in excess and obsolete inventories and corresponding inventory
write-downs. We attempt to identify changes in market conditions as soon as
possible; however, the dynamics of the market make prediction of and timely
reaction to such events difficult. Due to these and other factors, our past
results are much less reliable predictors of the future than for companies in
older, more stable industries.
The nature of our business makes our
revenues difficult to predict which could have an adverse impact on our
business. 
In addition to the challenging market
conditions we may face, we have limited visibility into the demand for our
products, particularly new products, because demand for our products depends
upon our products being designed into our end customers’ products and those
products achieving market acceptance. Due to the complexity of our customers’
designs, the design to volume production process for our customers requires a
substantial amount of time, frequently longer than a year. In addition, we are
increasingly dependent upon “turns,” orders received and turned for shipment in
the same quarter, and we have historically derived a significant portion of our
quarterly revenue during the last weeks of the quarter. These factors make it
difficult for us to forecast future sales and project quarterly revenues. The
difficulty in forecasting future sales impairs our ability to project our
inventory requirements, which could result, and in the past has resulted in
inventory write-downs or failure to timely meet customer product demands. In
addition, difficulty in forecasting revenues compromises our ability to provide
forward-looking revenue and earnings guidance.
Global economic conditions, the
economic conditions of the countries in which we operate and currency
fluctuations could have a material adverse affect on our business and negatively
impact our financial condition and results of operations. 
In addition to our U.S. operations, we
also have significant international operations, including foreign sales offices
to support our international customers and distributors, our regional
headquarters in Ireland and Singapore and a research and development site in
India. In connection with the restructuring we announced in April 2009, we
expect our international operations to grow as we relocate certain operations
and administrative functions. Sales and operations outside of the U.S. subject
us to the risks associated with conducting business in foreign economic and
regulatory environments. Our financial condition and results of operations could
be adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions in countries in which
we do significant business or by changes in foreign currency exchange rates
affecting those countries. The Company derives over one-half of its revenues
from international sales, 
12


primarily in the Asia Pacific region,
Europe and Japan. Past and current economic weakness in these markets adversely
affected revenues. The timing and nature of economic recovery in these markets
as well as in the U.S. remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that
global market conditions will improve in the near future. Sales to all direct OEMs and distributors
are denominated in U.S. dollars. While the recent movement of the Euro and Yen
against the U.S. dollar had no material impact to our business, increased
volatility could impact our European and Japanese customers. Currency
instability and recent volatility and disruptions in the credit and capital
markets may increase credit risks for some of our customers and may impair our
customers' ability to repay existing obligations. Increased currency volatility
could also positively or negatively impact our foreign-currency-denominated
costs, assets and liabilities. In addition, devaluation of the U.S. dollar
relative to other foreign currencies may increase the operating expenses of our
foreign subsidiaries adversely affecting our results of operations. Furthermore,
because we are increasingly dependent on the global economy, instability in
worldwide economic environments occasioned, for example, by political
instability, terrorist activity or U.S. military actions could impact economic
activity and lead to a contraction of capital spending by our customers. Any or
all of these factors could adversely affect our financial condition and results
of operations in the future. 
We are exposed to fluctuations in
interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our
portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our
financial condition and results of operations.
Our cash, short-term and long-term
investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or
even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit
rating and financial market conditions. Since September 2007, the global credit
markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the
values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. The
global credit and capital markets have recently experienced further significant
volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system and
the current uncertainty related to global economic conditions. As of March 28,
2009, less than 7% of our $1.58 billion investment portfolio consisted of
asset-backed securities and approximately 11% of the portfolio consisted of
mortgage-backed securities. Asset-backed securities consisted of student loan
auction rate securities and other asset-backed securities.
Approximately 4% of our investment
portfolio consisted of student loan auction rate securities and all of these
securities are rated AAA with the exception of approximately 14% that were
downgraded to A rating during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. More than 98%
of the underlying assets that secure the student loan auction rate securities
are pools of student loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan
Program (FFELP) that are substantially guaranteed by the U.S. Department of
Education. These securities experienced failed auctions in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 2008 due to liquidity issues in the global credit markets. In a failed
auction, the interest rates are reset to a maximum rate defined by the
contractual terms for each security. We have collected and expect to collect all
interest payable on these securities when due. During fiscal 2009, $1.4 million
of these student loan auction rate securities were redeemed for cash by the
issuers at par value. Beginning with the quarter ended March 29, 2008, the
student loan auction rate securities were reclassified from short-term to
long-term investments on the consolidated balance sheets since there can be no
assurance of a successful auction in the future. The final maturity dates range
from March 2023 to November 2047.
All other asset-backed securities
comprised less than 3% of our investment portfolio as of March 28, 2009, of
which approximately 9% are AAA rated with the majority of the rest of the
asset-backed securities rated A or BBB. These asset-backed securities are
secured primarily by bank, finance and insurance company obligations,
collateralized loan and bank obligations, credit card debt and mortgage-backed
securities with no direct U.S. subprime mortgage exposure. Substantially all of
the other mortgage-backed securities in the investment portfolio are AAA rated,
were issued by U.S. government-sponsored enterprises and agencies and
represented approximately 11% of the investment portfolio as of March 28, 2009.
As a result of these recent adverse conditions in the global credit markets,
there is a risk that we may incur additional other-than-temporary impairment
charges for certain types of investments such as asset-backed securities should
the credit markets experience further deterioration or the underlying assets
fail to perform as anticipated due to the continued or worsening global economic
conditions. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to
changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt
securities is judged to be other than temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer
losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in
market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions.
See “Note 4. Financial Instruments” to our consolidated financial statements,
included in Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” for a table
of our available-for-sale securities. 
We are subject to the risks
associated with conducting business operations outside of the U.S. which could
adversely affect our business.
In addition to international sales and
support operations and development activities, we purchase our wafers from
foreign foundries and have our commercial products assembled, packaged and
tested by subcontractors located outside the U.S. In connection with the
restructuring we announced in April 2009, we expect these subcontractor
activities to increase. All of these activities are subject to the uncertainties
associated with international business operations, including tax laws and
regulations, trade barriers, economic sanctions, import and export regulations,
duties and tariffs and other trade restrictions, changes in trade policies,
foreign governmental regulations, reduced protection for IP, longer receivable
collection periods and disruptions or delays in production or shipments, any of
which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition
and/or operating results. Additional factors that could adversely affect us due
to our international operations include rising oil prices and increased costs of
natural resources. Moreover, our financial condition and results of operations
could be affected in the event of political conflicts or economic crises in

13


countries where our main wafer
providers, end customers and contract manufacturers who provide assembly and
test services worldwide, are located. Adverse change to the circumstances or
conditions of our international business operations could have a material
adverse effect on our business. 
Our success depends on our ability
to develop and introduce new products and failure to do so would have a material
adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

Our success depends in large part on
our ability to develop and introduce new products that address customer
requirements and compete effectively on the basis of price, density,
functionality, power consumption and performance. The success of new product
introductions is dependent upon several factors, including: 

  timely completion of new product designs; 
  ability to
  generate new design opportunities or “design wins”; 
  availability
  of specialized field application engineering resources supporting demand
  creation and customer adoption of new products; 
  ability to
  utilize advanced manufacturing process technologies on circuit geometries of
  65nm and smaller; 
  achieving
  acceptable yields; 
  ability to
  obtain adequate production capacity from our wafer foundries and assembly and
  test subcontractors; 
  ability to
  obtain advanced packaging; 
  availability
  of supporting software design tools; 
  utilization of
  predefined IP cores of logic; 
  customer
  acceptance of advanced features in our new products; and 
  market
  acceptance of our customers’ products.
Our product development efforts may not
be successful, our new products may not achieve industry acceptance and we may
not achieve the necessary volume of production that would lead to further per
unit cost reductions. Revenues relating to our mature products are expected to
decline in the future, which is normal for our product life cycles. As a result,
we may be increasingly dependent on revenues derived from design wins for our
newer products as well as anticipated cost reductions in the manufacture of our
current products. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and
corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on
introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and other
price/performance factors that enable us to increase revenues while maintaining
consistent margins. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product
introductions do not occur in a timely manner, or to the extent that our
products do not achieve market acceptance at prices with higher margins, our
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected. 
We are dependent on independent
foundries for the manufacture of all of our products and a manufacturing problem
or insufficient foundry capacity could adversely affect our
operations.
During fiscal 2009, nearly all of our
wafers were manufactured either in Taiwan, by UMC or in Japan, by Toshiba or
Seiko. Terms with respect to the volume and timing of wafer production and the
pricing of wafers produced by the semiconductor foundries are determined by
periodic negotiations between Xilinx and these wafer foundries, which usually
result in short-term agreements that do not provide for long-term supply or
allocation commitments. We are dependent on these foundries, especially UMC,
which supplies the substantial majority of our wafers. We rely on UMC to produce
wafers with competitive performance and cost attributes. These attributes
include an ability to transition to advanced manufacturing process technologies
and increased wafer sizes, produce wafers at acceptable yields and deliver them
in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that the foundries that supply our
wafers will not experience manufacturing problems, including delays in the
realization of advanced manufacturing process technologies or difficulties due
to limitations of new and existing process technologies. Furthermore, we cannot
guarantee the foundries will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our
products. In addition, current economic conditions may adversely impact the
financial health and viability of the foundries and result in their insolvency
or their inability to meet their commitments to us. The insolvency of a foundry
or any significant manufacturing problem or insufficient foundry capacity would
disrupt our operations and negatively impact our financial condition and results
of operations.
We have established other sources of
wafer supply for our products in an effort to secure a continued supply of
wafers. However, establishing, maintaining and managing multiple foundry
relationships requires the investment of management resources as well as
additional costs. If we do not manage these relationships effectively, it could
adversely affect our results of operations. 
Increased costs of wafers and
materials, or shortages in wafers and materials, could adversely impact our
gross margins and lead to reduced revenues. 
If greater demand for wafers produced
by the foundries is not offset by an increase in foundry capacity, or market
demand for wafers or production and assembly materials increases, our supply of
wafers and other materials could become limited. Such shortages raise the
likelihood of potential wafer price increases and wafer shortages or shortages
in materials at production and test facilities. Such 
14





increases in wafer prices or materials
could adversely affect our gross margins and shortages of wafers and materials
would adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands.
Earthquakes and other natural
disasters could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse affect on our
financial condition and results of operations.
The independent foundries, upon which
we rely to manufacture our products, as well as our California and Singapore
facilities, are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other
natural disasters. UMC’s foundries in Taiwan and Toshiba’s and Seiko’s foundries
in Japan as well as many of our operations in California are centered in areas
that have been seismically active in the recent past and some areas have been
affected by other natural disasters. Any catastrophic event in these locations
will disrupt our operations, including our manufacturing activities. This type
of disruption could result in our inability to manufacture or ship products,
thereby materially adversely affecting our financial condition and results of
operations. Additionally, disruption of operations at these foundries for any
reason, including other natural disasters such as typhoons, fires or floods, as
well as disruptions in access to adequate supplies of electricity, natural gas
or water could cause delays in shipments of our products, and could have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations.
We are dependent on independent
subcontractors for most of our assembly and test services and unavailability or
disruption of these services could negatively impact our financial condition and
results of operations. 
We are also dependent on subcontractors
to provide semiconductor assembly, substrate, test and shipment services. Any
prolonged inability to obtain wafers with competitive performance and cost
attributes, adequate yields or timely delivery, any disruption in assembly, test
or shipment services, or any other circumstance that would require us to seek
alternative sources of supply, could delay shipments and have a material adverse
effect on our ability to meet customer demands. In addition, current economic
conditions may adversely impact the financial health and viability of these
subcontractors and result in their insolvency or their inability to meet their
commitments to us. These factors would result in reduced net revenues and could
negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
If we are not able to successfully
compete in our industry, our financial results and future prospects will be
adversely affected.
Our PLDs compete in the logic IC
industry, an industry that is intensely competitive and characterized by rapid
technological change, increasing levels of integration, product obsolescence and
continuous price erosion. We expect increased competition from our primary PLD
competitors, Altera, Lattice and Actel, from the ASIC market, which has been
ongoing since the inception of FPGAs, from the ASSP market, and from new
companies that may enter the traditional programmable logic market segment. We
believe that important competitive factors in the logic IC industry include:


  product pricing;
  time-to-market;
  product performance, reliability, quality, power
  consumption and density;
  field upgradability;
  adaptability of products to specific
  applications;
  ease of use and functionality of software design
  tools;
  availability and functionality of predefined IP
  cores of logic;
  inventory management;
  access to leading-edge process technology and
  assembly capacity; and
  ability to provide timely customer service and
  support. 

Our strategy for expansion in the logic
market includes continued introduction of new product architectures that address
high-volume, low-cost and low-power applications as well as high-performance,
high-density applications. In addition, we anticipate continued price reductions
proportionate with our ability to lower the cost for established products.
However, we may not be successful in achieving these strategies.
Other competitors include manufacturers
of:

  high-density programmable logic products
  characterized by FPGA-type architectures;
  high-volume and low-cost FPGAs as programmable
  replacements for ASICs and ASSPs;
  ASICs and ASSPs with incremental amounts of
  embedded programmable logic;
  high-speed, low-density CPLDs;
  high-performance DSP devices;
  products with embedded processors;
  products with embedded multi-gigabit
  transceivers; and
  other new or emerging programmable logic products.
  

15


Several companies have introduced
products that compete with ours or have announced their intention to sell PLD
products. To the extent that our efforts to compete are not successful, our
financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely
affected. 
The benefits of programmable logic have
attracted a number of competitors to this segment. We recognize that different
applications require different programmable technologies, and we are developing
architectures, processes and products to meet these varying customer needs.
Recognizing the increasing importance of standard software solutions, we have
developed common software design tools that support the full range of our IC
products. We believe that automation and ease of design are significant
competitive factors in this segment. 
We could also face competition from our
licensees. In the past we have granted limited rights to other companies with
respect to certain of our older technology, and we may do so in the future.
Granting such rights may enable these companies to manufacture and market
products that may be competitive with some of our older products.
Our failure to protect and defend
our intellectual property could impair our ability to compete
effectively.
We rely upon patent, copyright, trade
secret, mask work and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property. We
cannot provide assurance that such intellectual property rights can be
successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or
challenged. From time to time, third parties, including our competitors, have
asserted against us patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights to
technologies that are important to us. Third parties may assert infringement
claims against our indemnitees or us in the future. Assertions by third parties
may result in costly litigation or indemnity claims and we may not prevail in
such matters or be able to license any valid and infringed patents from third
parties on commercially reasonable terms. This could result in the loss of our
ability to import and sell our products. Any infringement claim, indemnification
claim, or impairment or loss of use of our intellectual property could
materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of
operations.
We rely on information technology
systems, and failure of these systems to function properly could result in
business disruption. 
We rely in part on various information
technology (IT) systems to manage our operations, including financial reporting,
and we regularly evaluate these systems and make changes to improve them as
necessary. Consequently, we periodically implement new, or enhance existing,
operational and IT systems, procedures and controls. For example, we recently
simplified our supply chain and were required to make certain changes to our IT
systems. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to,
new or enhanced systems, procedures or controls, could harm our ability to
record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate
basis. Further, these systems are subject to power and telecommunication outages
or other general system failure. Failure of our IT systems or difficulties in
managing them could result in business disruption. 
If we are unable to maintain
effective internal controls, our stock price could be adversely
affected.
We are subject to the ongoing internal
control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Act).
Our controls necessary for continued compliance with the Act may not operate
effectively at all times and may result in a material weakness disclosure. The
identification of material weaknesses in internal control, if any, could
indicate a lack of proper controls to generate accurate financial statements and
could cause investors to lose confidence and our stock price to drop. Further,
our internal control effectiveness may be impacted upon executing the
restructuring plan announced in April 2009 if we are unable to successfully
transfer certain control activities and responsibilities to new personnel in
different locations. 
Unfavorable results of legal
proceedings could adversely affect our financial condition and operating
results. 
From time to time we are subject to
various legal proceedings and claims that arise out of the ordinary conduct of
our business. Certain claims are not yet resolved, including those that are
discussed in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” included in Part I, and additional claims may arise in
the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty.
Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to
our operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management
attention and we may enter into material settlements to avoid these risks.
Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of
these matters be resolved against us in the same reporting period, we may be
faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against us that
would materially and adversely affect a portion of our business and might
materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results.

Our products could have defects
which could result in reduced revenues and claims against us.
We develop complex and evolving
products that include both hardware and software. Despite our testing efforts
and those of our subcontractors, defects may be found in existing or new
products. These defects may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and
repair or replacement costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel
from our product development efforts and harm our
16 


relationships with customers. Product
defects or other performance problems could result in the delay or loss of
market acceptance of our products and would likely harm our business. Our
customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability
claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming
and costly to defend. Product liability risks are particularly significant with
respect to aerospace, automotive and medical applications because of the risk of
serious harm to users of these products. Any product liability claim, whether or
not determined in our favor, could result in significant expense, divert the
efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our
business.
In preparing our financial
statements, we make good faith estimates and judgments that may change or turn
out to be erroneous. 
In preparing our financial statements
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States, we must make estimates and judgments in applying our most critical
accounting policies. Those estimates and judgments have a significant impact on
the results we report in our consolidated financial statements. The most
difficult estimates and subjective judgments that we make concern valuation of
marketable and non-marketable securities, revenue recognition, inventories,
long-lived assets, taxes, legal matters and stock-based compensation. We base
our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we
believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the
basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities
that are not readily apparent from other sources. We also have other key
accounting policies that are not as subjective, and therefore, their application
would not require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult, but
which nevertheless could significantly affect our financial reporting. Actual
results may differ materially from these estimates. If these estimates or their
related assumptions change, our operating results for the periods in which we
revise our estimates or assumptions could be adversely and perhaps materially
affected.
We depend on distributors, primarily
Avnet, to generate a majority of our sales and complete order fulfillment.

Resale of product through Avnet
accounted for 55% of the Company’s worldwide net revenues in fiscal 2009 and as
of March 28, 2009, Avnet accounted for 81% of our total accounts receivable. In
addition, we are subject to concentrations of credit risk in our trade accounts
receivable, which includes accounts of our distributors. A significant reduction
of effort by a distributor to sell our products or a material change in our
relationship with one or more distributors may reduce our access to certain end
customers and adversely affect our ability to sell our products. Furthermore, if
a key distributor materially defaults on a contract or otherwise fails to
perform, our business and financial results would suffer. 
In addition, the financial health of
our distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our
success. Current economic conditions may adversely impact the financial health
of some of these distributors, particularly our smaller distributors. This could
result in the insolvency of certain distributors, the inability of distributors
to obtain credit to finance the purchase of our products, or cause distributors
to delay payment of their obligations to us and increase our credit risk
exposure. Our business could be harmed if the financial health of these
distributors impairs their performance and we are unable to secure alternate
distributors.
Reductions in the average selling
prices of our products could have a negative impact on our gross margins.

The average selling prices of our
products generally decline as the products mature. We seek to offset the
decrease in selling prices through yield improvement, manufacturing cost
reductions and increased unit sales. We also continue to develop higher value
products or product features that increase, or slow the decline of, the average
selling price of our products. However, there is no guarantee that our ongoing
efforts will be successful or that they will keep pace with the decline in
selling prices of our products, which could ultimately lead to a decline in
revenues and have a negative effect on our gross margins.
A number of factors can impact our
gross margins.
A number of factors, including our
product mix, market acceptance of our new products, competitive pricing
dynamics, geographic and/or market segment pricing strategies and various
manufacturing cost variables cause our gross margins to fluctuate. In addition,
forecasting our gross margins is difficult because the majority of our business
is based on turns within the same quarter.
If we do not successfully implement
the restructuring we announced in April 2009, our results of operations and
financial condition could be adversely impacted. 
In April 2009, we announced
restructuring measures and a net reduction in our global workforce by up to 200
positions, which we expect to complete by the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. The
positions will be eliminated across a variety of functions and geographies
worldwide. The restructuring is designed to drive structural operating
efficiencies across the Company and will align our Company with the evolving
geographic distribution of our customers and supply chain. However, if we do not
successfully implement this restructuring, our results of operations and
financial condition could be adversely impacted. Factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to our announced
restructuring include:
17 



  the availability and hiring of the appropriately
  skilled workers in the Asia Pacific region;
  the transition of testing and other operational
  matters to third parties; and/or
  the timing and execution of our programs and plans
  related to the restructuring. 

Considerable amounts of our common
shares are available for issuance under our equity incentive plans and
debentures, and significant issuances in the future may adversely impact the
market price of our common shares.

As of March 28, 2009, we had 2.00
billion authorized common shares, of which 275.5 million shares were
outstanding. In addition, 62.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance
pursuant to our equity incentive plans and 1990 Employee Qualified Stock
Purchase Plan (Employee Stock Purchase Plan), and 22.4 million shares were
reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.125% convertible
debentures due March 15, 2037 (debentures). The availability of substantial
amounts of our common shares resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity
awards outstanding under our equity incentive plans or the conversion or
repurchase of debentures using common shares, which would be dilutive to
existing stockholders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our
common shares and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through
the sale of equity securities.
ITEM 1B