Item 1A, Part I of this Form 10-K. Investors are further cautioned that the risk
factors in Item 1A, Part I of this Form 10-K may not be exhaustive and that many
of these factors are beyond the Company’s ability to control or predict.
Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a
prediction of actual results. The Company undertakes no duty and has no
obligation to update forward-looking statements.
    
    History
and Overview
    
    DENTSPLY,
a Delaware corporation which dates its history to 1899, believes it is the
world's largest designer, developer, manufacturer and marketer of a broad range
of professional dental products, with a primary focus on dental consumable
products, dental laboratory products and dental specialty
products.   The Company's worldwide headquarters and executive
offices are located in York, Pennsylvania.
    
    Consolidated
net sales, excluding precious metal content, of the Company's dental products
accounted for approximately 97% of DENTSPLY's consolidated net sales, excluding
precious metal content, for the year ended December 31, 2010. The remaining 3%
of consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, are related to
materials sold to the investment casting industry and various medical products.
The presentation of net sales, excluding precious metal content, is considered a
measure not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles in the United States of America (“US GAAP”), and is therefore
considered a non-US GAAP measure. This non-US GAAP measure is discussed further
in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” and a reconciliation of net sales to net sales, excluding precious
metal content, is provided.
    
    Through
the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company conducted its business through
four operating segments, all of which were primarily engaged in the design,
manufacture and distribution of dental products in three principal categories:
1) dental consumable products, 2) dental laboratory products and 3) dental
specialty products.
    
    In
addition to the United States (“U.S.”), the Company conducts its business in
over 120 foreign countries, principally through its foreign subsidiaries.
DENTSPLY has a long-established presence in Canada and in the European market,
particularly in Germany, Switzerland, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. The
Company also has a significant market presence in Central and South America,
South Africa and the Pacific Rim. DENTSPLY has also established marketing
activities in Moscow, Russia to serve the countries of the Commonwealth of
Independent States (“CIS”).
    
    For 2010,
2009 and 2008, the Company's net sales, excluding precious metal content, to
customers outside the U.S., including export sales, accounted for approximately
63%, 62% and 62%, respectively, of consolidated net sales, excluding precious
metal content. Reference is made to the information about the Company's U.S. and
foreign sales by shipment origin set forth in Note 4, Segment and Geographic
Information, to the consolidated financial statements in this Form
10-K.
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 2
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    Principal
Products
    
    The
worldwide professional dental industry encompasses the diagnosis, treatment and
prevention of disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone.
DENTSPLY's principal dental product categories are dental consumable products,
dental laboratory products and dental specialty products. These products are
produced by the Company in the U.S. and internationally and are distributed
throughout the world under some of the most well-established brand names and
trademarks in the industry, including ANKYLOS, AQUASIL, AQUASIL
ULTRA,  CALIBRA, CAULK, CAVITRON, CERAMCO, CERCON, CITANEST, DELTON,
DENTSPLY, DETREY, DYRACT, ECLIPSE, ELEPHANT, ESTHET.X, FRIADENT, FRIALIT, GENIE,
GOLDEN GATE, IN-OVATION, INTERACTIVE MYSTIQUE, MAILLEFER, MIDWEST, NUPRO,
ORAQIX, PEPGEN P-15, POLOCAINE, PORTRAIT,  PRIME & BOND, PROFILE,
PROTAPER, RINN, SANI-TIP, SHADEPILOT, STYLUS, SULTAN, SUREFIL, THERMAFIL,
TRUBYTE, XENO, XIVE, XYLOCAINE and ZHERMACK .
    
    Dental Consumable
Products
    
    Dental
consumable products consist of dental sundries and small equipment used in
dental offices for the treatment of patients. Net sales of dental consumable
products, excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 35%, 35%
and 34% of the Company’s consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal
content, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.
    
    DENTSPLY’s
dental sundry products in the dental consumable products category include dental
anesthetics, prophylaxis paste, dental sealants, impression materials,
restorative materials, tooth whiteners and topical fluoride. The Company
manufactures thousands of different dental sundry consumable products marketed
under more than one hundred brand names.
    
    Small
equipment products in the dental consumable products category consist of various
durable goods used in dental offices for the treatment of patients. DENTSPLY’s
small equipment products include high and low speed handpieces, intraoral curing
light systems, dental diagnostic systems and ultrasonic scalers and
polishers.
    
    Dental Laboratory
Products
    
    Dental
laboratory products are used in the preparation of dental appliances by dental
laboratories. Net sales of dental laboratory products, excluding precious metal
content, accounted for approximately 16%, 17% and 18% of the Company’s
consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for the years ended
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
    
    DENTSPLY’s
products in the dental laboratory products category include dental prosthetics,
including artificial teeth, precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics and
crown and bridge materials. Equipment in this category includes computer aided
machining (CAM) ceramic systems and porcelain furnaces.
    
    Dental Specialty
Products
    
    Dental
specialty products are specialized treatment products used within the dental
office and laboratory settings. Net sales of dental specialty products,
excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 46%, 45% and 45%
of the Company’s consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for
the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. DENTSPLY’s
products in this category include endodontic (root canal) instruments and
materials, implants and related products, bone grafting materials, 3D digital
implantology and orthodontic appliances and accessories.
    
    Markets,
Sales and Distribution
    
    DENTSPLY
distributes approximately 55% of its dental products through domestic and
foreign distributors, dealers and importers.  However, certain highly
technical products such as precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics, crown
and bridge porcelain products, endodontic instruments and materials, orthodontic
appliances, implants, and bone substitute and grafting materials are sold
directly to the dental laboratory or dental professionals in some
markets.  During 2010, 2009 and 2008, one customer, Henry Schein
Incorporated, a dental distributor, accounted for 11% of DENTSPLY’s consolidated
net sales.  No other single customer represented ten percent or more
of DENTSPLY’s consolidated net sales during 2010, 2009 or 2008.
    
    Reference
is made to the information about the Company's foreign and domestic operations
and export sales set forth in Note 4, Segment and Geographic Information, to the
consolidated financial statements in this Form 10-K.
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 3
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    Although
many of its sales are made to distributors, dealers and importers, DENTSPLY
focuses its marketing efforts on the dentists, dental hygienists, dental
assistants, dental laboratories and dental schools who are the end-users of its
products.  As part of this end-user “pull through” marketing approach,
DENTSPLY employs approximately 2,800 highly trained, product-specific sales and
technical staff to provide comprehensive marketing and service tailored to the
particular sales and technical support requirements of the distributors, dealers
and the end-users.  The Company conducts extensive distributor, dealer
and end-user marketing programs.  Additionally, the Company trains
laboratory technicians, dental hygienists, dental assistants and dentists in the
proper use of its products and introduces them to the latest technological
developments at its educational courses located throughout the
world.  The Company also maintains ongoing relationships with various
dental associations and recognized worldwide opinion leaders in the dental
field, although there is no assurance that these influential dental
professionals will continue to support the Company’s products.
    
    DENTSPLY
believes that demand in a given geographic market for dental procedures and
products vary according to the stage of social, economic and technical
development of the particular market.  Geographic markets for
DENTSPLY's dental products can be categorized into the following two stages of
development:
    
    The U.S.,
Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia and certain other countries are highly
developed markets that demand the most advanced dental procedures and products
and have the highest level of expenditures for dental care.  In these
markets, dental care is increasingly focused upon preventive care and
specialized dentistry.  In addition to basic procedures, such as
excavation of teeth and filling of cavities, tooth extraction and denture
replacement, dental professionals perform an increasing volume of preventive and
cosmetic procedures.  These markets require varied and complex dental
products, utilize sophisticated diagnostic and imaging equipment and demand high
levels of attention to protect against infection and patient
cross-contamination.
    
    In
certain countries in Central America, South America, Eastern Europe, Pacific
Rim, Middle East and Africa, most dental care is often limited to excavation of
teeth and filling of cavities and other restorative techniques, reflecting more
modest per capita expenditures for dental care.  These markets demand
diverse products, such as high and low speed handpieces, restorative compounds,
finishing devices, custom restorative devices, basic surgical instruments,
bridgework and artificial teeth for dentures. However, there is also a portion
of the population in these markets that receive excellent dental care similar to
that received in developed countries and expect to receive the best dental care
available.
    
    The
Company offers products and equipment for use in markets at both of these stages
of development.  The Company believes that demand for more technically
advanced products will increase as each of these markets develop.  The
Company also believes that its recognized brand names, high quality and
innovative products, technical support services and strong international
distribution capabilities position it well to take advantage of any
opportunities for growth in all of the markets that it serves.
    
    The
Company believes that the market for its products will grow over the long-term
based on the following factors:
    
    
      
          
            
              •
            
            
              Increasing worldwide
      population.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              •
            
            
              Growth of the population 65 or
      older – The percentage of the U.S., European, Japanese and other regions
      population over age 65 is expected to nearly double by the year
      2030.  In addition to having significant needs for dental care,
      the elderly are well positioned to pay for the required procedures since
      they control sizable amounts of discretionary
    income.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              •
            
            
              Natural teeth are being retained
      longer – Individuals with natural teeth are much more likely to visit a
      dentist in a given year than those without any natural teeth
      remaining.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              •
            
            
              The changing dental practice in
      North America and Western Europe – Dentistry in North America and Western
      Europe has been transformed from a profession primarily dealing with pain,
      infections and tooth decay to one with increased emphasis on preventive
      care and cosmetic dentistry.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              •
            
            
              Per capita and discretionary
      incomes are increasing in emerging nations – As personal incomes continue
      to rise in the emerging nations of the Pacific Rim, CIS and Latin America,
      healthcare, including dental services, are a growing
      priority.
            
          
      
    
     
    
      
          
            
              •
            
            
              The Company’s business is less
      susceptible than other industries to general downturns in the economies in
      which it operates.  Many of the products the Company offers
      relate to dental procedures that are considered necessary by patients
      regardless of the economic environment.  Dental specialty
      products and products that support discretionary dental procedures are the
      most susceptible to recessionary
  conditions.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 4
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    Product
Development
    
    Technological
innovation and successful product development are critical to strengthening the
Company’s prominent position in worldwide dental markets, maintaining its
leadership positions in product categories where it has a high market share and
increasing market share in product categories where gains are
possible.  While many of DENTSPLY’s existing products undergo
evolutionary improvements, the Company also continues to focus efforts on
successfully launching innovative products that represent fundamental
change.
    
    New
advances in technology are also anticipated to have a significant influence on
future products in dentistry.  As a result, the Company pursues research
and development initiatives to support this technological development, including
collaborations with external research institutions and dental schools. 
Through its own internal research centers as well as through its collaborations
with external research institutions and dental schools, the Company directly
invested $49.4 million, $50.3 million and $48.5 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, in connection with the development of new products, improvement of
existing products and advances in technology.  The continued development of
these areas is a critical step in meeting the Company's strategic goal as a
leader in defining the future of dentistry.  The year-over-year comparisons
for 2010 versus 2009 and 2009 versus 2008 were both impacted by foreign currency
translation which decreased the reported expense variations.
    
    In
addition to the direct investment in product development and improvement, the
Company also invests in these activities through acquisitions, by entering into
licensing agreements and by purchasing technologies developed by third
parties.
    
    Acquisition
Activities
    
    DENTSPLY
believes that the dental products industry continues to experience consolidation
with respect to both product manufacturing and distribution, although it
continues to be fragmented creating a number of acquisition
opportunities.  In 2010, the Company purchased an initial ownership
interest of 16% of the outstanding shares in DIO Corporation (“DIO”), a Korean
manufacturer of dental implants and various other dental devices and
materials.  Additionally, in 2010, the Company purchased several small
distributors of dental specialty products and a small dental equipment
manufacturer.  These businesses are located in Europe and in
Asia.
    
    The
Company continues to view acquisitions as a key part of its growth
strategy.  These acquisition activities are intended to supplement the
Company's core growth and assure ongoing expansion of its business, including
new technologies, additional products, and geographic breadth.
    
    Operating
and Technical Expertise
    
    DENTSPLY
believes that its manufacturing capabilities are important to its
success.  The manufacturing process of the Company's products requires
substantial and varied technical expertise.  Complex materials
technology and processes are necessary to manufacture the Company's
products.  The Company continues to automate its global manufacturing
operations in order to lower costs.
    
    Financing
    
    DENTSPLY’s
cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased by $89.7 million
during the year ended December 31, 2010 to $540.1 million.  DENTSPLY's
total long-term debt, including the current portion, at December 31, 2010 and
2009 was $606.5 million and $453.7 million, respectively, and the ratios of
long-term debt, including the current portion, to total capitalization were
24.1% and 16.9%.  DENTSPLY defines total capitalization as the sum of
total long-term debt, including the current portion, plus total equity. The
Company’s long-term debt, including the current portion, increased by a net of
$152.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. This net change included
a net increase in borrowings of $126.5 million during the year ended 2010, plus
an increase of $26.3 million due to exchange rate fluctuations on debt
denominated in foreign currencies.  The Company may incur additional
debt in the future, including, but not limited to, the funding of additional
acquisitions and capital expenditures.
    
    Additional
information about DENTSPLY's working capital, liquidity and capital resources is
provided in “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” in this Form 10-K.
    
    Competition
    
    The
Company conducts its operations, both domestic and foreign, under highly
competitive market conditions.  Competition in the dental products
industry is based primarily upon product performance, quality, safety and ease
of use, as well as price, customer service, innovation and acceptance by
professionals and technicians.  DENTSPLY believes that its principal
strengths include its well-established brand names, its reputation for high
quality and innovative products, its leadership in product development and
manufacturing, its commitment to customer satisfaction and support of the
Company’s products by dental professionals.
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 5
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    The size
and number of the Company's competitors vary by product line and from region to
region.  There are many companies that produce some, but not all, of
the same types of products as those produced by the Company.
    
     Regulation
    
    The
Company's products are subject to regulation by, among other governmental
entities, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”).  In
general, if a dental “device” is subject to FDA regulation, compliance with the
FDA's requirements constitutes compliance with corresponding state
regulations.  In order to ensure that dental products distributed for
human use in the U.S. are safe and effective, the FDA regulates the
introduction, manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, marketing and
distribution of, and record-keeping for, such products.  The
introduction and sale of dental products of the types produced by the Company
are also subject to government regulation in the various foreign countries in
which they are produced or sold.  DENTSPLY believes that it is in
substantial compliance with the FDA and foreign regulatory requirements that are
applicable to its products and manufacturing operations.
    
    Dental
devices of the types sold by DENTSPLY are generally classified by the FDA into a
category that renders them subject only to general controls that apply to all
medical devices, including regulations regarding alteration, misbranding,
notification, record-keeping and good manufacturing practices.  In the
European Union, DENTSPLY's products are subject to the medical devices laws of
the various member states, which are based on a Directive of the European
Commission.  Such laws generally regulate the safety of the products
in a similar way to the FDA regulations.  DENTSPLY products in Europe
bear the CE mark showing that such products adhere to the European
regulations.
    
    All
dental amalgam filling materials, including those manufactured and sold by
DENTSPLY, contain mercury.  Various groups have alleged that dental
amalgam containing mercury is harmful to human health and have actively lobbied
state and federal lawmakers and regulators to pass laws or adopt regulatory
changes restricting the use, or requiring a warning against alleged potential
risks, of dental amalgams.  The FDA's Dental Devices Classification
Panel, the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. Public Health Service have
each indicated that no direct hazard to humans from exposure to dental amalgams
has been demonstrated.  In response to concerns raised by certain
consumer groups regarding dental amalgam, the FDA formed an advisory committee
in 2006 to review peer-reviewed scientific literature on the safety of dental
amalgam.  In July 2009, the FDA concluded its review of dental
amalgam, confirming its use as a safe and effective restorative
material.  Also, as a result of this review, the FDA classified
amalgam and its component parts, elemental mercury and powder alloy, as a Class
II medical device.  Previously there was no classification for
encapsulated amalgam and dental mercury (Class I) and alloy (Class II) were
classified separately.  This new regulation places encapsulated
amalgam in the same class of devices as most other restorative materials,
including composite and gold fillings.  After the FDA issued this
regulation, several petitions were filed asking the FDA to reconsider its
position.  Another advisory panel was established by the FDA to
consider these petitions.  Hearings of the advisory panel were held in
December 2010.  The FDA has taken no action, as of the filing date of
this Form 10-K, from this latest advisory panel meeting.
    
    In
Europe, particularly in Scandinavia and Germany, the contents of mercury in
amalgam filling materials have been the subject of public
discussion.  As a consequence, in 1994 the German health authorities
required suppliers of dental amalgam to amend the instructions for use for
amalgam filling materials to include a precaution against the use of amalgam for
children less than eighteen years of age and to women of childbearing
age.  Additionally, some groups have asserted that the use of dental
amalgam should be prohibited because of concerns about environmental impact from
the disposition of mercury within dental amalgam, which has resulted in the sale
of mercury containing products being banned in Sweden and severely curtailed in
Norway.  DENTSPLY also manufactures and sells non-amalgam dental
filling materials that do not contain mercury.
    
    Sources
and Supply of Raw Materials and Finished Goods
    
    The
Company manufactures the majority of the products sold by the
Company.  All of the raw materials used by the Company in the
manufacture of its products are purchased from various suppliers and are
typically available from numerous sources.  No single supplier
accounts for a significant percentage of DENTSPLY's raw material
requirements.  In addition to those products both manufactured and
sold by the Company, some finished goods products sold by the Company are
purchased from third party suppliers.  Of these finished goods
products purchased from third party suppliers, a significant portion of the
Company’s injectable anesthetic products, orthodontic products and dental
cutting instruments are purchased from a limited number of
suppliers.
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 6
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    Intellectual
Property
    
    Products
manufactured by DENTSPLY are sold primarily under its own trademarks and trade
names.  DENTSPLY also owns and maintains more than 2,000 patents
throughout the world and is licensed under a small number of patents owned by
others.
    
    DENTSPLY's
policy is to protect its products and technology through patents and trademark
registrations in the U.S. and in significant international markets for its
products.  The Company carefully monitors trademark use worldwide and
promotes enforcement of its patents and trademarks in a manner that is designed
to balance the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for
the Company.  DENTSPLY believes its patents and trademark properties
are important and contribute to the Company's marketing position but it does not
consider its overall business to be materially dependent upon any individual
patent or trademark.
    
    Employees
    
    As of
December 31, 2010, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 9,700
employees.  A small percentage of the Company's U. S. employees are
represented by labor unions.  A facility in Des Plaines, Illinois is
represented by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers
AFL-CIO, under a collective bargaining agreement that expires on May 31,
2012.  Additionally, the Company’s Ransom & Randolph facility in
Maumee, Ohio is represented by Local No. 12 of the International Union, United
Automobile, Aerospace and Agriculture Implement Workers of America under a
collective bargaining agreement that expires on January 31, 2012.  In
Germany, approximately 45% of DeguDent employees, approximately 30% of Friadent
employees, approximately 23% of VDW employees and approximately 30% of DeTrey
employees are represented by labor unions.  The Company provides
pension and postretirement benefits to many of its employees (see Note 13,
Benefits Plans, to the consolidated financial statements).  The
Company believes that its relationship with its employees is good.
    
    Environmental
Matters
    
    DENTSPLY
believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable
environmental laws and regulations.  Maintaining this level of
compliance has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on the
Company's capital expenditures or on its business.
    
    Other
Factors Affecting the Business
    
    The
Company’s business is subject to quarterly fluctuations of consolidated net
sales and net income.  The Company typically implements most of its
price changes early in the fourth quarter or beginning of the
year.  Price changes, other marketing and promotional programs as well
as the management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of
strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given
period.  Sales for the industry and the Company are generally
strongest in the second and fourth calendar quarters and weaker in the first and
third calendar quarters, due to the effects of the items noted above and due to
the impact of summer holidays and vacations, particularly throughout
Europe.
    
    Securities
and Exchange Act Reports
    
    DENTSPLY
makes available free of charge through its website at www.DENTSPLY.com its
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably
practicable after such materials are filed with or furnished to the
SEC.
    
    The
public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the U. S.
Securities and Exchange Commission (“ SEC”) at its Public Reference Room at the
following address:
    
    The
Securities and Exchange Commission
    100 F
Street, NE
    Washington,
D.C. 20549
    
    The
public may obtain information on the operation of this Public Reference Room by
calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, since the Company is
an electronic filer, the public may access reports, the proxy and information
statements and other information filed or furnished by the Company at the
Internet site maintained by the SEC (http://www.sec.gov).
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 7
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    Item
1A.  Risk Factors
    
    The
following are the significant risk factors that could materially impact
DENTSPLY’s business, financial condition or future results.  The order
in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate its relative
importance or priority.
    
    Negative
changes could occur in the dental markets, the general economic environments, or
government reimbursement or regulatory programs of the regions in which the
Company operates.
    
    The
success of the Company is largely dependent upon the continued strength of
dental markets and is also somewhat dependent upon the general economic
environments of the regions in which DENTSPLY operates.  Negative
changes to these markets and economies could materially impact the Company's
results of operations and financial condition.  In addition, many of
the Company's markets are affected by government reimbursement and regulatory
programs.  In certain markets, particularly in the European Union,
government and regulatory programs have a more significant impact than other
markets.  Changes to these programs could have a positive or negative
impact on the Company's results.
    
    Prolonged
negative economic conditions in domestic and global markets may adversely affect
the Company’s suppliers, customers and consumers, which could harm the Company’s
financial position.
    
    Prolonged
negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of
either or both of the financial and credit markets may affect the Company’s
supply chain and the customers and consumers of the Company’s products and may
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial
condition and liquidity.
    
    Due
to the Company’s international operations, the Company is exposed to the risk of
changes in interest and foreign exchange rates.
    
    DENTSPLY,
with its significant international operations, is subject to fluctuations in
exchange rates of various foreign currencies and other risks associated with
foreign trade.  The impact of currency fluctuations in any given
period can be favorable or unfavorable.  The Company’s balance sheet
includes debt and net investment hedges that are sensitive to movements in
interest and foreign exchange rates.  Changes in interest rates and
foreign exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of
operations, financial condition and liquidity.
    
    Volatility
in the capital markets or investment vehicles could limit the Company’s ability
to access capital or could raise the cost of capital.
    
      
    
    Although
the Company has had continued positive operating cash flow, a disruption in the
credit markets may reduce sources of liquidity available to the
Company.  The Company relies on multiple financial institutions to
provide funding pursuant to existing and/or future credit agreements, and those
institutions may not be able to provide funding in a timely manner, or at all,
when required by the Company.  The cost of or lack of available credit
could impact the Company’s ability to develop sufficient liquidity to maintain
or grow  the Company, which in turn may adversely affect the Company’s
businesses and results of operations, financial condition and
liquidity.
    
    The
Company also manages cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments
through various institutions.  There may be a risk of loss on
investments based on the volatility of the underlying instruments that will not
allow the Company to recover the full principal of its investments.
    
    The
Company may not be able to access or renew its precious metal consignment
facilities resulting in a liquidity constraint equal to the fair market value of
the precious metal value of inventory and would subject the Company to inventory
valuation risk as the value of the precious metal inventory fluctuates resulting
in greater volatility to reported earnings.
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 8
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    The
Company’s quarterly operating results and market price for the Company’s common
stock may be volatile.
    
    DENTSPLY
experiences fluctuations in quarterly sales and earnings due to a number of
factors, many of which are substantially outside of the Company’s control,
including:
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              The
      timing of new product introductions by DENTSPLY and its
      competitors;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Timing
      of industry tradeshows;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Developments
      in government reimbursement
policies;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Changes
      in product mix;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              The
      Company’s ability to supply products to meet customer
    demand;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Fluctuations
      in manufacturing costs;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Income
      tax incentives and adverse tax
consequences;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Fluctuations
      in currency exchange rates; and
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              General
      economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare and
      related industries.
            
          
      
    
    
    As a
result, the Company may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and
investors, which could cause its stock price to decline.  The
quarterly fluctuations generally result in net sales and operating profits
historically being higher in the second and fourth quarters.  The
Company typically implements most of its price changes early in the fourth
quarter or beginning of the year.  These price changes, other
marketing and promotional programs, which are offered to customers from time to
time in the ordinary course of business, the management of inventory levels by
distributors and the implementation of strategic initiatives, may impact sales
levels in a given period.  Net sales and operating profits generally
have been lower in the first and third quarters, primarily due not only to
increased sales in the quarters preceding these quarters, but also due to the
impact of summer holidays and vacations, particularly throughout
Europe.
    
    In
addition to fluctuations in quarterly earnings, a variety of other factors may
have a significant impact on the market price of DENTSPLY’s common stock causing
volatility.  These factors include, but are not necessarily limited
to, the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and
speculation in the press or investment community; changes in the Company’s
industry and competitors; the Company’s financial condition and cash flows; any
future issuances of DENTSPLY’s common stock, which may include primary offerings
for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions,
restricted stock and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time;
general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of
hostilities in geographical areas the Company does business.
    
    Also, the
NASDAQ National Market (“NASDAQ”) can experience extreme price and volume
fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating
performance of the companies listed on the NASDAQ.  Broad market and
industry factors may negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common
stock, regardless of actual operating performance.  In the past,
following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities,
securities class action litigation has often been instituted against
companies.  This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in
substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which
could harm the Company’s business.
    
    The
dental supplies market is highly competitive, and there is no guarantee that the
Company can compete successfully.
    
    The
worldwide market for dental supplies is highly competitive.  There can
be no assurance that the Company will successfully identify new product
opportunities and develop and market new products successfully, or that new
products and technologies introduced by competitors will not render the
Company's products obsolete or noncompetitive.  Additionally, the size
and number of the Company's competitors vary by product line and from region to
region.  There are many companies that produce some, but not all, of
the same types of products as those produced by the Company.  Certain
of DENTSPLY's competitors may have greater resources than does the
Company.
    
    The
Company may be unable to develop innovative products or obtain regulatory
approval for new products.
    
    The
market for DENTSPLY’s products is characterized by rapid and significant
technological change, evolving industry standards and new product
introductions.  There can be no assurance that DENTSPLY’s products
will not become noncompetitive or obsolete as a result of such factors or that
we will be able to generate any economic return on the Company’s investment in
product development.  If the Company’s products or technologies become
noncompetitive or obsolete, DENTSPLY’s business could be negatively
affected.
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 9
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    DENTSPLY
has identified new products as an important part of its growth
opportunities.  There can be no assurance that DENTSPLY will be able
to continue to develop innovative products and that regulatory approval of any
new products will be obtained from applicable U.S. or international government
or regulatory authorities, or that if such approvals are obtained, such products
will be favorably accepted in the marketplace.  Additionally, there is
no assurance that entirely new technology or approaches to dental treatment or
competitors’ new products will not be introduced that could render the Company's
products obsolete.
     
    The
Company may fail to comply with applicable government regulations.
    
    The
Company must obtain certain approvals by, and marketing clearances from,
governmental authorities, including the FDA and similar health authorities in
foreign countries to market and sell its products.  These regulatory
agencies regulate the marketing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging,
advertising, sale and distribution of medical devices.
    
    The
regulatory review process which must be completed prior to marketing a new
medical device, may delay or hinder a product’s timely entry into the
marketplace.  Moreover, there can be no assurance that the review or
approval process for these products by the FDA or any other applicable
governmental authority will occur in a timely fashion, if at all, or that
additional regulations will not be adopted or current regulations amended in
such a manner as will adversely affect the Company.  The FDA also
oversees the content of advertising and marketing materials relating to medical
devices which have received FDA clearance.  Failure to comply with the
FDA’s advertising guidelines may result in the withdrawal of products or
imposition of penalties.
    
    DENTSPLY's
business operations are also subject to periodic review and inspection by the
FDA and other domestic government authorities and similar foreign authorities to
monitor DENTSPLY's compliance with the regulations administered by such
authorities.  There can be no assurance that these authorities will
not raise compliance concerns.  Failure to satisfy any such
requirements can result in governmental enforcement actions, including possible
product seizure, injunction and/or criminal or civil proceedings.
    
    Challenges
may be asserted against the Company’s dental amalgam product.
    
    All
dental amalgam filling materials, including those manufactured and sold by
DENTSPLY, contain mercury.  Some groups have
asserted that amalgam should be discontinued because of its mercury content
and/or that disposal of mercury containing products may be harmful to the
environment.  If governmental authorities elect to place restrictions
or significant regulations on the sale and/or disposal of dental amalgam, that
could have an adverse impact on the Company’s sales of dental amalgam. DENTSPLY
also manufactures and sells non-amalgam dental filling materials that do not
contain mercury.
    
    The
Company may be unable to obtain a supply for certain finished goods purchased
from third parties.
    
    A
significant portion of the Company’s injectable anesthetic products, orthodontic
products, dental cutting instruments and certain other products and raw
materials are purchased from a limited number of suppliers, some of which also
compete with the Company.  As there are a limited number of suppliers
for these products, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
obtain an adequate supply of these products and raw materials in the
future.  Any delays in delivery of or shortages in these products
could interrupt and delay manufacturing of the Company’s products and result in
the cancellation of orders for these products.  In addition, these
suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these products at any
time.  DENTSPLY may not be able to identify and integrate alternative
sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all.  Any transition to
alternate suppliers may result in delays in shipment and increased expenses and
may limit the Company’s ability to deliver products to customers.  If
the Company is unable to develop reasonably priced alternative sources in a
timely manner, or if the Company encounters delays or other difficulties in the
supply of such products and other materials from third parties, the Company’s
business and results of operation may be harmed.
    
    The
Company’s expansion through acquisition involves risks and may not result in the
expected benefits.
    
    The
Company continues to view acquisitions as a key part of its growth
strategy.  The Company continues to be active in evaluating potential
acquisitions although there is no assurance that these efforts will result in
completed transactions as there are many factors that affect the success of such
activities.  If the Company does succeed in acquiring a business or
product, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve any of the
benefits that it might anticipate from such an acquisition and the attention and
effort devoted to the integration of an acquired business could divert
management’s attention from normal business operations.  If the
Company makes acquisitions, it may incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or
create additional expenses, any of which might adversely affect its financial
results.  Any financing that the Company might need for acquisitions
may only be available to it on terms that restrict its business or that impose
additional costs that reduce its operating results.
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 10
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    Changes
in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable
accounting charges.
    
    The
Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with US
GAAP.  These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and
various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting
principles.  Market conditions have prompted accounting standard
setters to issue new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise
accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or
transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding
disclosures.  It is possible that future accounting standards the
Company is required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment
applied to the consolidated financial statements and that such changes could
have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations,
financial condition and liquidity.
     
    If
the Company’s goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, the
Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.
    
    Under US
GAAP, the Company reviews its goodwill and amortizable intangible assets for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value
may not be recoverable.  Additionally, goodwill is required to be
tested for impairment at least annually. The valuations used to determine the
fair values used to test goodwill or amortizable intangible assets are dependent
upon various assumptions and reflect management’s best estimates.  Net
sales growth, discount rates, earnings multiples and future cash flows are
critical assumptions used to determine these fair values.  Slower net
sales growth rates in the dental industry, an increase in discount
rates,  unfavorable changes in earnings multiples or a decline in
future cash flows, among other factors, may cause a change in circumstances
indicating that the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill or amortizable
intangible assets may not be recoverable. The Company may be required to record
a significant charge to earnings in the financial statements during the period
in which any impairment of the Company’s goodwill or amortizable intangible
assets is determined.
    
    Changes
in, or interpretations of, tax rules, structures, country profitability mix and
regulations may adversely affect the Company’s effective tax rates.
    
    The
Company is a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S.
and foreign tax jurisdictions.  Unanticipated changes in the Company’s
tax rates could affect its future results of operations.  The
Company’s future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes
in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in
which the Company does business, by structural changes in the Company’s
businesses, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in
countries with low statutory tax rates, by lapses of the availability of the
U.S. research and development tax credit, or by changes in the valuation of the
Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities.
    
    The
Company faces the inherent risk of litigation and claims.
    
    The
Company’s business involves a risk of product liability and other types of legal
actions or claims, including possible recall actions affecting the Company’s
products.  The primary risks to which the Company is exposed are
related to those products manufactured by the Company.  The Company
has insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering these
risks in amounts that are considered adequate; however, the Company cannot
provide assurance that the maintained coverage is sufficient to cover future
claims or that the coverage will be available in adequate amounts or at a
reasonable cost.  Also, other types of claims asserted against the
Company may not be covered by insurance.  A successful claim brought
against the Company in excess of available insurance, or another type of claim
which is uninsured or that results in significant adverse publicity against the
Company, could harm its business and overall cash flows of the
Company.
    
    Various
parties, including the Company, own and maintain patents and other intellectual
property rights applicable to the dental field.  Although the Company
believes it operates in a manner that does not infringe upon any third party
intellectual property rights, it is possible that a party could assert that one
or more of the Company’s products infringe upon such party’s intellectual
property and force the Company to pay damages and/or discontinue the sale of
certain products.
    
    Increasing
exposure to markets outside of the U.S. and Europe.
    
    We
anticipate that sales outside of the U.S. and Europe will continue to account
for a significant portion of DENTSPLY’s revenue.  Operating in such
locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited
to, the following:
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Economic
      and political instability;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Import
      or export licensing requirements;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Trade
      restrictions;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Product
      registration requirements;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Longer
      payment cycles;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Changes
      in regulatory requirements and
tariffs;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Fluctuations
      in currency exchange rates;
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Potentially
      adverse tax consequences; and
            
          
      
    
    
      
          
            
               
      
            
            
              ·
            
            
              Potentially
      weak protection of intellectual property
rights.
            
          
      
    
    
    
      
        
           

        
        
          - 11
- -
          
            
          
        
        
           

        
      
    
    
    The Company's success is dependent
upon its management and employees.
    
    The
Company's success is dependent upon its management and employees.  The
loss of senior management employees or any failure to recruit and train needed
managerial, sales and technical personnel, could have a material adverse effect
on the Company.
    
    The
Company may be unable to sustain the operational and technical expertise that is
key to its success.
    
    DENTSPLY
believes that its manufacturing capabilities are important to its
success.  The manufacture of the Company's products requires
substantial and varied technical expertise.  Complex materials
technology and processes are necessary to manufacture the Company's
products.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
maintain the necessary operational and technical expertise that is key to its
success.
    
    The
Company may not generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt, pay its
contractual obligations and operate the business.
    
    DENTSPLY's
ability to make payments on its indebtedness and contractual obligations, and to
fund its operations depends on its future performance and financial results,
which, to a certain extent, are subject to general economic, financial,
competitive, regulatory and other factors and the interest rate environment that
are beyond its control.  Although senior management believes that the
Company has and will continue to have sufficient liquidity, there can be no
assurance that DENTSPLY's business will generate sufficient cash flow from
operations in the future to service its debt, pay its contractual obligations
and operate its business.
    
    The
Company may not be able to repay its outstanding debt in the event that cross
default provisions are triggered due to a breach of loan covenants.
    
    DENTSPLY's
existing borrowing documentation contains a number of covenants and financial
ratios, which it is required to satisfy.  The most restrictive of
these covenants pertain to asset dispositions, maintenance of certain levels of
net worth, and prescribed ratios of indebtedness to total capital and operating
income excluding depreciation and amortization of interest
expense.  Any breach of any such covenants or restrictions would
result in a default under the existing borrowing documentation that would permit
the lenders to declare all borrowings under such documentation to be immediately
due and payable and, through cross default provisions, would entitle DENTSPLY's
other lenders to accelerate their loans.  DENTSPLY may not be able to
meet its obligations under its outstanding indebtedness in the event that any
cross default provision is triggered.
    
    Certain
provisions in the Company’s governing documents may discourage third party
offers to acquire DENTSPLY that might otherwise result in the Company’s
stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their
shares.
    
    Certain
provisions of DENTSPLY's Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and of
Delaware law could have the effect of making it difficult for a third party to
acquire control of DENTSPLY.  Such provisions include, among others,
the division of the Board of Directors of DENTSPLY into three classes, with the
three-year term of a class expiring each year, a provision allowing the Board of
Directors to issue preferred stock having rights senior to those of the common
stock and certain procedural requirements which make it difficult for
stockholders to amend DENTSPLY's By-laws and call special meetings of
stockholders.  In addition, members of DENTSPLY's management and
participants in its Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) collectively own
approximately 4% of the outstanding common stock of DENTSPLY.
    
    Issues
related to the quality and safety of the Company’s products, ingredients or
packaging could cause a product recall resulting in harm to the Company’s
reputation and negatively impacting the Company’s operating
results.
    
    The
Company’s products generally maintain a good reputation with customers and
end-users.  Issues related to quality and safety of products,
ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize the Company’s image and
reputation.  Negative publicity related to these types of concerns,
whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for the Company’s products,
or cause production and delivery disruptions.  The Company may need to
recall products if they become unfit for use.  In addition, the
Company could potentially be subject to litigation or government action, which
could result in payment of fines or damages.  Cost associated with
these potential actions could negatively affect the Company’s operating results,
financial condition and liquidity.
    
    
      
          
            
              Item 1B