Item 1A,
        Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed on February 25, 2008. Investors are
        further cautioned that the risk factors in Item 1A, Part I of this Annual Report on Form
        10-K may not be exhaustive and that many of these factors are beyond the Company’s
        ability to control or predict. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied
        upon as a prediction of actual results. The Company undertakes no duty and has no
        obligation to update forward-looking statements.

         

        
        History and Overview

         

        
        DENTSPLY International Inc. (“DENTSPLY” or the
        “Company”), a Delaware corporation, was created by a merger of DENTSPLY
        International Inc. (“Old DENTSPLY”) and GENDEX Corporation ("GENDEX") in 1993.
        Old DENTSPLY, founded in 1899, was a manufacturer and distributor of artificial teeth,
        dental equipment and dental consumable products. GENDEX, founded in 1983, was a
        manufacturer of dental x-ray equipment and handpieces. In early 2004, the Company divested
        the dental x-ray equipment portion of GENDEX in order to primarily focus the
        Company’s product lines on dental consumables, dental laboratory products and dental
        specialty products.

         

        
        DENTSPLY believes it is the world's largest designer, developer,
        manufacturer and marketer of a broad range of products for the dental market. The Company's
        worldwide headquarters and executive offices are located in York, Pennsylvania.

        
         

        
        Sales of the Company's dental products accounted for approximately 97% of
        DENTSPLY's consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, for the year ended
        December 31, 2007. The remaining 3% of consolidated sales are related to materials sold to
        the investment casting industry and various medical products. The presentation of net
        sales, excluding precious metal content, could be considered a measure not calculated in
        accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), and is
        therefore considered a non-GAAP measure. This non-GAAP measure is discussed further in
        “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
        Operations” and a reconciliation of net sales to net sales, excluding precious metal
        content, is provided.

        
         

        
        Through the year ended December 31, 2007, the Company conducted its business
        through four operating segments, all of which were primarily engaged in the design,
        manufacture and distribution of dental products in three principal categories: 1) dental
        consumables, 2) dental laboratory products and 3) dental specialty products.

        
         

        
        In addition to the United States (“U.S.”), the Company conducts
        its business in over 120 foreign countries, principally through its foreign subsidiaries.
        DENTSPLY has a long-established presence in Canada and in the European market, particularly
        in Germany, Switzerland, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. The Company also has a
        significant market presence in Central and South America including Brazil, Mexico,
        Argentina, Colombia and Chile; in South Africa; and in the Pacific Rim including Japan,
        Australia, New Zealand, China (including Hong Kong), Thailand, India, Philippines, Taiwan,
        South Korea, Vietnam and Indonesia. DENTSPLY has also established marketing activities in
        Moscow, Russia to serve the countries of the former Soviet Union.

         

        
        For 2007, 2006 and 2005, the Company's net sales, excluding precious metal
        content, to customers outside the United States, including export sales, accounted for
        approximately 59%, 58% and 56%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. Reference is made
        to the information about the Company's United States and foreign sales by shipment origin
        set forth in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form
        10-K.

        
         

        
        2
        
        
        

        
        Principal Products

         

        
        The worldwide professional dental industry encompasses the
        diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and
        supporting bone. DENTSPLY's principal dental product categories are dental consumables,
        dental laboratory products and dental specialty products. These products are produced by
        the Company in the United States and internationally and are distributed throughout the
        world under some of the most well-established brand names and trademarks in the industry,
        including ANKYLOS®, AQUASIL(TM), AQUASIL ULTRA(TM), BIOPURE(TM), CAULK®,
        CAVITRON®, CERAMCO®, CERCON®, CITANEST®, DELTON®, DENTSPLY®,
        DETREY®, ELEPHANT®, ESTHET.X®, FRIADENT®, FRIALIT®, GENIE(TM), GOLDEN
        GATE®, IN-OVATION(TM), INTERACTIVE MYSTIQUE(TM), MAILLEFER®, MIDWEST®,
        NUPRO®, ORAQIX®, PEPGEN P-15(TM), POLOCAINE®, PRIME & BOND®,
        PROFILE®, PROTAPER(TM), RINN®, R&R®, SANI-TIP®, SEAL&PROTECT(TM),
        SHADEPILOT(TM), SULTAN®, THERMAFIL®, TRUBYTE®, XENO®, XIVE® and
        XYLOCAINE®.

         

        
        Dental Consumables

        
         

        
        Dental consumable products consist of dental sundries and
        small equipment used in dental offices in the treatment of patients. Sales of dental
        consumables, excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 35% and 40% of
        the Company’s consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,
        respectively.

        
         

        
        DENTSPLY’s dental sundry products in the dental
        consumable category include dental anesthetics, prophylaxis paste, dental sealants,
        impression materials, restorative materials, tooth whiteners and topical fluoride. The
        Company manufactures thousands of different dental sundry consumable products marketed
        under more than one hundred brand names.

        
         

        
        Small equipment products in the dental consumable category
        consist of various durable goods used in dental offices for treatment of patients.
        DENTSPLY’s small equipment products include high and low speed handpieces, intraoral
        curing light systems, dental diagnostic systems, and ultrasonic scalers and
        polishers.

         

        
        Dental Laboratory Products

        
         

        
        Dental laboratory products are used in the preparation of
        dental appliances by dental laboratories. Sales of dental laboratory products, excluding
        precious metal content, accounted for approximately 19% of the Company’s consolidated
        sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.

        
         

        
        DENTSPLY’s products in the dental laboratory category
        include dental prosthetics, including artificial teeth, precious metal dental alloys,
        dental ceramics, and crown and bridge materials. Equipment in this category includes
        computer aided machining (CAM) ceramic systems and porcelain furnaces.

         

        
        Dental Specialty Products

        
         

        
        Dental specialty products are specialized treatment products
        used within the dental office and laboratory settings. Sales of specialty products,
        excluding precious metal content, accounted for approximately 43% and 38% of the
        Company’s consolidated sales for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,
        respectively. DENTSPLY’s products in this category include endodontic (root canal)
        instruments and materials, implants and related products, bone grafting materials, and
        orthodontic appliances and accessories.

         

        
        Markets, Sales and Distribution

         

        
        DENTSPLY distributes approximately 55% of its dental products
        through domestic and foreign distributors, dealers and importers. However, certain highly
        technical products such as precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics, crown and bridge
        porcelain products, endodontic instruments and materials, orthodontic appliances, implants,
        and bone substitute and grafting materials are sold directly to the dental laboratory or
        dental professional in some markets. During 2007 and 2006, one customer, Henry Schein
        Incorporated, a dental distributor, accounted for 11.6% and 10.9%, respectively, of
        DENTSPLY’s consolidated net sales. No other single customer represented ten percent
        or more of DENTSPLY’s consolidated net sales during 2007 or 2006.

        
         

        
        Reference is made to the information about the Company's
        foreign and domestic operations and export sales set forth in Note 4 to the consolidated
        financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

        
         

        
        Although many of its sales are made to distributors, dealers
        and importers, DENTSPLY focuses its marketing efforts on the dentists, dental hygienists,
        dental assistants, dental laboratories and dental schools who are the end users of its
        products. As part of this end-user “pull through” marketing approach, DENTSPLY
        employs approximately 2,100 highly trained, product-specific sales and technical staff to
        provide comprehensive marketing and service tailored to the particular sales and technical
        support requirements of the dealers and the end

        

         

        
        3
        
        
        

         

        
        users. The Company conducts extensive distributor and
        end-user marketing programs and trains laboratory technicians and dentists in the proper
        use of its products, introducing them to the latest technological developments at its
        educational centers located throughout the world. The Company also maintains ongoing
        relationships with various dental associations and recognized worldwide opinion leaders in
        the dental field, although there is no assurance that these influential dental
        professionals will continue to support the Company’s products.

        
         

        
        DENTSPLY believes that demand in a given geographic market
        for dental procedures and products vary according to the stage of social, economic and
        technical development of the particular market. Geographic markets for DENTSPLY's dental
        products can be categorized into the following two stages of development:

        
         

        
        The United States, Canada, Western Europe, Japan, Australia
        and certain other countries are highly developed markets that demand the most advanced
        dental procedures and products and have the highest level of expenditures on dental care.
        In these markets, the focus of dental care is increasingly upon preventive care and
        specialized dentistry. In addition to basic procedures such as the excavation and filling
        of cavities and tooth extraction and denture replacement, dental professionals perform an
        increasing volume of preventive and cosmetic procedures. These markets require varied and
        complex dental products, utilize sophisticated diagnostic and imaging equipment, and demand
        high levels of attention to protect against infection and patient
        cross-contamination.

        
         

        
        In certain countries in Central America, South America,
        Eastern Europe, Pacific Rim, Middle East and Africa, most dental care is often limited to
        the excavation and filling of cavities and other restorative techniques, reflecting more
        modest per capita expenditures for dental care. These markets demand diverse products such
        as high and low speed handpieces, restorative compounds, finishing devices, custom
        restorative devices, basic surgical instruments, bridgework and artificial teeth for
        dentures.

        
         

        
        The Company offers products and equipment for use in markets
        at both of these stages of development. The Company believes that demand for more
        technically advanced products will increase as each of these markets develop. The Company
        also believes that its recognized brand names, high quality and innovative products,
        technical support services and strong international distribution capabilities position it
        well to take advantage of any opportunities for growth in all of the markets that it
        serves.

         

        
        The Company believes that the market for its products will
        grow based on the following factors:

        
         

        
            
                
                    
                    •
                

                
                    
                    Increasing worldwide population.
                
            
        

         

        
            
                
                    
                    •
                

                
                    
                    Growth of the population 65 or older – The percentage of
                    the United States, European, Japanese and other regions population over age 65
                    is expected to nearly double by the year 2030. In addition to having
                    significant needs for dental care, the elderly are well positioned to pay for
                    the required procedures since they control sizable amounts of discretionary
                    income.
                
            
        

        
         

        
            
                
                    
                    •
                

                
                    
                    Natural teeth are being retained longer – Individuals with
                    natural teeth are much more likely to visit a dentist in a given year than
                    those without any natural teeth remaining.
                
            
        

        
         

        
            
                
                    
                    •
                

                
                    
                    The changing dental practice in North America and Western Europe
                    – Dentistry in North America and Western Europe has been transformed from
                    a profession primarily dealing with pain, infections and tooth decay to one
                    with increased emphasis on preventive care and cosmetic dentistry.
                
            
        

        
         

        
            
                
                    
                    •
                

                
                    
                    Per capita and discretionary incomes are increasing in emerging
                    nations – As personal incomes continue to rise in the emerging nations of
                    the Pacific Rim, Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”) and
                    Latin America, healthcare, including dental services, are a growing
                    priority.
                
            
        

        
         

        
            
                
                    
                    •
                

                
                    
                    The Company’s business is less susceptible than other
                    industries to general downturns in the economies in which it operates. Many of
                    the products the Company offers relate to dental procedures that are considered
                    necessary by patients regardless of the economic environment.
                
            
        

         

        
        Product Development

         

        
        Technological innovation and successful product development
        are critical to strengthening the Company’s prominent position in worldwide dental
        markets, maintaining its leadership positions in product categories where it has a high
        market share and increasing market share in product categories where gains are possible.
        While many of DENTSPLY’s existing products undergo evolutionary improvements, the
        Company also continues to successfully launch innovative products that represent
        fundamental change.

        
         

        
        4
        
        
        

        
        New advances in technology are
        also anticipated to have a significant influence on future products in dentistry. As a
        result, the Company pursues research and development initiatives to support this
        technological development, including partnerships and collaborations with various research
        institutions and dental schools. Through its own internal research centers as
        well as through its collaborations and partnerships with external research institutions and
        dental schools, the Company directly invested approximately $48.5 million and $44.4 million
        for 2007 and 2006, respectively, in connection with the development of new products,
        improvement of existing products and advances in technology. The continued development of
        these areas is a critical step in meeting the Company's strategic goal of taking a
        leadership role in defining the future of dentistry.

         

        
        In addition to the direct investment in product development
        and improvement, the Company also invests in these activities through acquisitions, by
        entering into licensing agreements and by purchasing technologies developed by third
        parties.

         

        
        Acquisition Activities

        
         

        
        DENTSPLY believes that the dental products industry continues
        to experience consolidation with respect to both product manufacturing and distribution,
        although it continues to be fragmented creating a number of acquisition opportunities. As a
        result, during the past three years, the Company has made several acquisitions, including
        one manufacturer of dental consumable products, one manufacturer of endodontic materials,
        two sales and marketing organizations for implant products, and one manufacturer of small
        dental diagnostic equipment in 2007, two small businesses in 2006, and a group of three
        orthodontic companies in 2005. Additionally, in 2006, DENTSPLY acquired a 40% interest in a
        simulation software company and a leading manufacturer of a variety of surgical guides to
        assist in the placement of dental implants. DENTSPLY also acquired the remaining 40%
        interest of a dental manufacturing business in Brazil during 2006 (the Company had owned
        60% of this business since 2001).

        
         

        
        The Company continues to view acquisitions as a key part of
        its growth strategy. These acquisition activities are intended to supplement the Company's
        core growth and assure ongoing expansion of its business, including new technologies,
        additional products and geographic breadth.

         

        
        Operating and Technical Expertise

         

        
        DENTSPLY believes that its manufacturing capabilities are
        important to its success. The manufacture of the Company's products requires substantial
        and varied technical expertise. Complex materials technology and processes are necessary to
        manufacture the Company's products. The Company continues to automate its global
        manufacturing operations in order to remain a low cost producer.

         

        
        Financing

         

        
        DENTSPLY's total long-term debt, including the current
        portion of long-term debt, at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $482.3 million and $367.4
        million, respectively, and the ratios of long-term debt to total capitalization were 24.1%
        and 22.4%. DENTSPLY defines total capitalization as the sum of total long-term debt,
        including the current portion, plus total stockholders’ equity. DENTSPLY may incur
        additional debt in the future, including, but not limited to, the funding of additional
        acquisitions and capital expenditures.

        
         

        
        The Company's cash, cash equivalents and short-term
        investments increased by $251.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2007 to $316.3
        million. In 2007, the Company had net borrowings of $99.0 million related to long-term
        borrowings and repurchased $125.4 million in treasury stock. The net borrowings of $99.0
        million were primarily due to the March 13, 2007 private placement note of $149.5 million,
        which was partially offset by repayments of $50.5 million primarily related to the Swiss
        franc denominated private placement notes.

        
         

        
        Additional information about DENTSPLY's working capital,
        liquidity and capital resources is provided in “Management's Discussion and Analysis
        of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in this Annual Report on Form
        10-K.

         

        
        Competition

         

        
        The Company conducts its operations, both domestic and
        foreign, under highly competitive market conditions. Competition in the dental products
        industry is based primarily upon product performance, quality, safety and ease of use, as
        well as price, customer service, innovation and acceptance by professionals and
        technicians. DENTSPLY believes that its principal strengths include its well-established
        brand names, its reputation for high-quality and innovative products, its leadership in
        product development and manufacturing, its commitment to customer satisfaction, and support
        of the Company’s products by dental professionals.

         

        
        The size and number of the Company's competitors vary by
        product line and from region to region. There are many companies that produce some, but not
        all, of the same types of products as those produced by the Company.

        

         

        
        5
        
        
        

        
        Regulation

         

        
        The Company's products are subject to regulation by, among
        other governmental entities, the United States Food and Drug Administration (the
        “FDA”). In general, if a dental “device” is subject to FDA
        regulation, compliance with the FDA's requirements constitutes compliance with
        corresponding state regulations. In order to ensure that dental products distributed for
        human use in the United States are safe and effective, the FDA regulates the introduction,
        manufacture, advertising, labeling, packaging, marketing and distribution of, and
        record-keeping for, such products. The introduction and sale of dental products of the
        types produced by the Company are also subject to government regulation in the various
        foreign countries in which they are produced or sold. DENTSPLY believes that it is in
        substantial compliance with the FDA and foreign regulatory requirements that are applicable
        to its products and manufacturing operations.

         

        
        Dental devices of the types sold by DENTSPLY are generally
        classified by the FDA into a category that renders them subject only to general controls
        that apply to all medical devices, including regulations regarding alteration, misbranding,
        notification, record-keeping and good manufacturing practices. In the European Union,
        DENTSPLY's products are subject to the medical devices laws of the various member states
        which are based on a Directive of the European Commission. Such laws generally regulate the
        safety of the products in a similar way to the FDA regulations. DENTSPLY products in Europe
        bear the CE mark showing that such products adhere to the European
        regulations.

        
         

        
        All dental amalgam filling materials, including those
        manufactured and sold by DENTSPLY, contain mercury. Various groups have alleged that dental
        amalgam containing mercury is harmful to human health and have actively lobbied state and
        federal lawmakers and regulators to pass laws or adopt regulatory changes restricting the
        use, or requiring a warning against alleged potential risks, of dental amalgams. The FDA's
        Dental Devices Classification Panel, the National Institutes of Health and the United
        States Public Health Service have each indicated that no direct hazard to humans from
        exposure to dental amalgams has been demonstrated. In response to concerns raised by
        certain consumer groups regarding dental amalgam, in 2006 the FDA formed an advisory
        committee to review peer-reviewed scientific literature on the safety of dental amalgam. In
        Europe, particularly in Scandinavia and Germany, the contents of mercury in amalgam filling
        materials has been the subject of public discussion. As a consequence, in 1994 the German
        health authorities required suppliers of dental amalgam to amend the instructions for use
        for amalgam filling materials to include a precaution against the use of amalgam for
        children less than eighteen years of age and to women of childbearing age. Additionally,
        some groups have asserted that the use of dental amalgam should be prohibited because of
        concerns about environmental impact from the disposition of mercury within dental amalgam.
        Although the Company is not aware of any such prohibition being adopted, it is possible
        that such a limitation could be adopted in the future. DENTSPLY also manufactures and sells
        non-amalgam dental filling materials that do not contain mercury.

         

        
        Sources and Supply of Raw Materials and Finished
        Goods

         

        
        The Company manufactures the majority of the products sold by
        the Company. All of the raw materials used by the Company in the manufacture of its
        products are purchased from various suppliers and are typically available from numerous
        sources. No single supplier accounts for a significant percentage of DENTSPLY's raw
        material requirements. In addition to those products both manufactured and sold by the
        Company, some finished goods products sold by the Company are purchased from third party
        suppliers. Of these finished goods products purchased from third party suppliers, a
        significant portion of the Company’s injectable anesthetic products, orthodontic
        products and cutting instruments are purchased from a limited number of
        suppliers.

         

        
        Intellectual Property

         

        
        Products manufactured by DENTSPLY are sold primarily under
        its own trademarks and trade names. DENTSPLY also owns and maintains approximately 2,000
        patents throughout the world and is licensed under a small number of patents owned by
        others.

         

        
        DENTSPLY's policy is to protect its products and technology
        through patents and trademark registrations in the United States and in significant
        international markets for its products. The Company carefully monitors trademark use
        worldwide, and promotes enforcement of its patents and trademarks in a manner that is
        designed to balance the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for
        the Company. DENTSPLY believes its patents and trademark properties are important and
        contribute to the Company's marketing position but it does not consider its overall
        business to be materially dependent upon any individual patent or
        trademark.

         

        
        6
        
        
        

        
        Employees

         

        
        As of December 31, 2007, the Company and its subsidiaries
        employed approximately 8,900 employees. A small percentage of the Company's employees are
        represented by labor unions. Hourly workers at the Company's Ransom & Randolph facility
        in Maumee, Ohio are represented by Local No. 12 of the International Union, United
        Automobile, Aerospace and Agriculture Implement Workers of America under a collective
        bargaining agreement. Hourly workers at the Company's Midwest Dental Products facility in
        Des Plaines, Illinois are represented by International Association of Machinists and
        Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO in Chicago under a collective bargaining agreement that expires
        on May 31, 2009. In Germany, approximately 40% of DeguDent employees, approximately 30% of
        Friadent employees, approximately 20% VDW employees and approximately 30% of DeTrey
        employees are represented by labor unions. The Company provides pension and postretirement
        benefits to many of its employees (see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements).
        The Company believes that its relationship with its employees is good.

         

        
        Environmental Matters

         

        
        DENTSPLY believes that its operations comply in all material
        respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Maintaining this level of
        compliance has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on the Company's
        capital expenditures or on its business.

         

        
        Other Factors Affecting the Business

         

        
        The Company’s business is subject to quarterly
        fluctuations with net sales and operating profits historically being higher in the second
        and fourth quarters. The Company typically implements most of its price changes in the
        third or fourth quarters of the year. These price changes, other marketing and promotional
        programs, the management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of
        strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given period. Sales for the industry
        and the Company are generally strongest in the second and fourth calendar quarters and
        weaker in the first and third calendar quarters, due to the effects of the items noted
        above and due to the impact of summer holidays and vacations, particularly throughout
        Europe.

        
         

        
        Securities and Exchange Act Reports

        
         

        
        DENTSPLY makes available free of charge through its website
        at www.DENTSPLY.com its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
        Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section
        13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable
        after such materials are filed with or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange
        Commission.

        
         

        
        The public may read and copy any materials the Company files
        with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at the following address:

        
         

        
        100 F Street, NE

        
        Washington, D.C. 20549

        
         

        
        The public may obtain information on the operation of this
        Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, since the Company
        is an electronic filer, the public may access reports, the proxy and information statements
        and other information filed or furnished by the Company at the Internet site maintained by
        the SEC (http://www.sec.gov).

        

         

        
        7
        
        
        

        
        Item 1A. Risk Factors

         

        
        Following are the significant risk factors that could
        materially impact DENTSPLY’s business. The order in which these factors appear should
        not be construed to indicate its relative importance or priority.

         

        
        Negative changes could occur in the dental markets, the
        general economic environments, or government reimbursement or regulatory programs of the
        regions in which the Company operates.

        
         

        
        The success of the Company is largely dependent upon the
        continued strength of dental markets and is also somewhat dependent upon the general
        economic environments of the regions in which it operates. Negative changes to these
        markets and economies could materially impact the Company's results of operations and
        financial condition. In addition, many of the Company's markets are affected by government
        reimbursement and regulatory programs. In certain markets, government and regulatory
        programs have a more significant impact than other markets. Changes to these programs could
        have a positive or negative impact on the Company's results.

         

        
        The Company may be unable to develop innovative products
        or obtain regulatory approval for new products.

         

        
        DENTSPLY has identified new products as an important part of
        its growth opportunities. There can be no assurance that DENTSPLY will be able to continue
        to develop innovative products and that regulatory approval of any new products will be
        obtained, or that if such approvals are obtained, such products will be favorably accepted
        in the marketplace. Additionally, there is no assurance that entirely new technology or
        approaches to dental treatment or competitors’ new products will not be introduced
        that could render the Company's products obsolete.

         

        
        The dental supplies market is highly competitive, and
        there is no guarantee that the Company can compete successfully.

         

        
        The worldwide market for dental supplies is highly
        competitive. There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully identify new
        product opportunities and develop and market new products successfully, or that new
        products and technologies introduced by competitors will not render the Company's products
        obsolete or noncompetitive. Additionally, the size and number of the Company's competitors
        vary by product line and from region to region. There are many companies that produce some,
        but not all, of the same types of products as those produced by the Company. Certain of
        DENTSPLY's competitors may have greater resources than does the Company.

         

        
        The Company’s expansion through acquisition involves
        risks and may not result in the expected benefits.

         

        
        The Company continues to view acquisitions as a key part of
        its growth strategy. The Company continues to be active in evaluating potential
        acquisitions although there is no assurance that these efforts will result in completed
        transactions as there are many factors that affect the success of such activities. If the
        Company does succeed in acquiring a business or product, there can be no assurance that the
        Company will achieve any of the benefits that it might anticipate from such an acquisition
        and the attention and effort devoted to the integration of an acquired business could
        divert management’s attention from normal business operations. If the Company makes
        acquisitions, it may incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or create additional
        expenses, any of which might adversely affect its financial results. Any financing that the
        Company might need for acquisitions may only be available to it on terms that restrict its
        business or that impose additional costs that reduce its operating
        results.

         

        
        The Company may not generate sufficient cash flow to
        service its debt, pay its contractual obligations and operate the
        business.

         

        
        DENTSPLY's ability to make payments on its indebtedness and
        contractual obligations, and to fund its operations depends on its future performance and
        financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general economic, financial,
        competitive, regulatory and other factors and the interest rate environment that are beyond
        its control. Although Management believes that the Company has and will continue to have
        sufficient liquidity, there can be no assurance that DENTSPLY's business will generate
        sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its debt, pay its contractual
        obligations and operate its business.

         

        
        The Company may be unable to sustain the operational and
        technical expertise that is key to its success.

         

        
        DENTSPLY believes that its manufacturing capabilities are
        important to its success. The manufacture of the Company's products requires substantial
        and varied technical expertise. Complex materials technology and processes are necessary to
        manufacture the Company's products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able
        to maintain the necessary operational and technical expertise that is key to its
        success.

         

        

         

        
        8
        
        
        

        
        The Company may not be able to repay its outstanding debt
        in the event that cross default provisions are triggered due to a breach of loan
        covenants.

         

        
        DENTSPLY's existing borrowing documentation contains a number
        of covenants and financial ratios which it is required to satisfy. The most restrictive of
        these covenants pertain to asset dispositions, maintenance of certain levels of net worth,
        and prescribed ratios of indebtedness to total capital and operating income excluding
        depreciation and amortization to interest expense. Any breach of any such covenants or
        restrictions would result in a default under the existing borrowing documentation that
        would permit the lenders to declare all borrowings under such documentation to be
        immediately due and payable and, through cross default provisions, would entitle DENTSPLY's
        other lenders to accelerate their loans. DENTSPLY may not be able to meet its obligations
        under its outstanding indebtedness in the event that any cross default provision is
        triggered.

         

        
        The Company’s international operations are subject
        to inherent risks that could adversely affect the operating results.

         

        
        DENTSPLY, with its significant international operations, is
        subject to fluctuations in exchange rates of various foreign currencies and other risks
        associated with foreign trade and the impact of currency fluctuations in any given period
        can be favorable or unfavorable.

         

        
        The Company may fail to comply with regulations issued by
        the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies.

         

        
        DENTSPLY's business is subject to periodic review and
        inspection by the FDA and similar foreign authorities to monitor DENTSPLY's compliance with
        the regulations administered by such authorities. There can be no assurance that these
        authorities will not raise compliance concerns. Failure to satisfy any such requirements
        can result in governmental enforcement actions, including possible product seizure,
        injunction and/or criminal or civil proceedings.

         

        
        All dental amalgam filling materials, including those
        manufactured and sold by DENTSPLY, contain mercury. The FDA's Dental Devices Classification
        Panel, the National Institutes of Health and the United States Public Health Service have
        each indicated that no direct hazard to humans from exposure to dental amalgams has been
        demonstrated. If the FDA were to reclassify dental mercury and amalgam filling materials as
        classes of products requiring FDA pre-market approval, there can be no assurance that the
        required approval would be obtained or that the FDA would permit the continued sale of
        amalgam filling materials pending its determination.

         

        
        The Company may be unable to obtain a supply for certain
        finished goods purchased from third parties.

         

        
        A significant portion of the Company’s injectable
        anesthetic products, orthodontic products and cutting instruments are purchased from a
        limited number of suppliers. As there are a limited number of suppliers for these products,
        there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain an adequate supply of
        these products in the future.

         

        
        The Company's success is dependent upon its management and
        employees.

         

        
        The Company's success is dependent upon its management and
        employees. The loss of senior management employees or any failure to recruit and train
        needed managerial, sales and technical personnel, could have a material adverse effect on
        the Company.

        
         

        
        The Company faces the inherent risk of
        litigation.

         

        
        The Company’s business involves a risk of product
        liability and other claims, and from time to time the Company is named as a defendant in
        these cases. The primary risks to which the Company is exposed are related to those
        products manufactured by the Company. The Company has insurance policies, including product
        liability insurance, covering these risks in amounts that are considered adequate; however,
        the Company cannot provide assurance that the maintained coverage is sufficient to cover
        future claims or that the coverage will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable
        cost. A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance, or
        any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against the Company, could harm its
        business. Various parties, including the Company, own and maintain patents and other
        intellectual property rights applicable to the dental field. Although the Company believes
        it operates in a manner that does not infringe upon any third party intellectual property
        rights, it is possible that a party could assert that one or more of the Company’s
        products infringe upon such party’s intellectual property and force the Company to
        discontinue the sale of certain products.

         

        

         

        
        9
        
        
        

        
        The Company may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of
        securities analysts and investors, which could cause its stock price to
        decline.

         

        
        DENTSPLY experiences fluctuations in quarterly earnings. As a
        result, the Company may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and
        investors, which could cause its stock price to decline. The Company’s business is
        subject to quarterly fluctuations with net sales and operating profits historically being
        higher in the second and fourth quarters. The Company typically implements most of its
        price changes in the third or fourth quarters of the year. These price changes, other
        marketing and promotional programs, which are offered to customers from time to time in the
        ordinary course of business, the management of inventory levels by distributors and the
        implementation of strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given period. Net
        sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first and third quarters,
        primarily due not only to increased sales in the quarters preceding the first and third
        quarters, but also due to the impact of summer holidays and vacations, particularly
        throughout Europe.

         

        
        The market price for the Company’s common stock may
        become volatile.

         

        
        A variety of factors may have a significant impact on the
        market price of DENTSPLY’s common stock causing volatility. These factors include,
        but are not necessarily limited to: the publication of earnings estimates or other research
        reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in the
        Company’s industry and competitors; the Company’s financial condition, results
        of operations and cash flows; any future issuances of DENTSPLY’s common stock, which
        may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business
        acquisitions, restricted stock and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to
        time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities
        in areas the Company does business.

         

        
        In addition, the NASDAQ National Market can experience
        extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the
        operating performance of the companies listed on the NASDAQ. Broad market and industry
        factors may negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock,
        regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in
        the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has
        often been instituted against companies. This type of litigation, if instituted, could
        result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources,
        which would harm the Company’s business.

         

        
        Certain provisions in the Company’s governing
        documents may discourage third-party offers to acquire DENTSPLY that might otherwise result
        in the Company’s stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their
        shares.

         

        
        Certain provisions of DENTSPLY's Certificate of Incorporation
        and By-laws and of Delaware law could have the effect of making it difficult for a third
        party to acquire control of DENTSPLY. Such provisions include the division of the Board of
        Directors of DENTSPLY into three classes, with the three-year term of a class expiring each
        year, a provision allowing the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock having rights
        senior to those of the common stock and certain procedural requirements which make it
        difficult for stockholders to amend DENTSPLY's By-laws and call special meetings of
        stockholders. In addition, members of DENTSPLY's management and participants in its
        Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) collectively own
        approximately 5% of the outstanding common stock of DENTSPLY.

        
        The Company is exposed to the risk of changes in interest
        and foreign exchange rates.

        
         

        
        The Company’s balance sheet includes debt and net
        investment hedges that are sensitive to movements in interest and foreign exchange rates.
        Changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates may have an adverse effect on the
        Company’s statement of income.

        
         

         

        
            
                
                    
                    ITEM 1B