Item 1A.  Risk Factors

     Following are the significant risk factors that could materially impact
DENTSPLY's business. These risk factors are also discussed in more detail and in
context throughout Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

     The success of the Company is largely dependent upon the continued strength
of dental markets and the general economic environments of the regions in which
it operates. Negative changes to these markets and economies could materially
impact the Company's results of operations and financial condition. In addition,
many of the Company's markets are affected by government reimbursement and
regulatory programs. In certain markets, government and regulatory programs have
a more significant impact than other markets. Changes to these programs could
have a positive or negative impact on the Company's results.

     DENTSPLY has identified new products as an important part of its growth
opportunities. There can be no assurance that DENTSPLY will be able to continue
to develop innovative products and that regulatory approval of any new products
will be obtained, or that if such approvals are obtained, such products will be
favorably accepted in the marketplace. Additionally, there is no assurance that
entirely new technology or approaches to dental treatment or competitor's new
products will not be introduced that could render the Company's products
obsolete.

     The Company continues to view acquisitions as a key part of its growth
strategy. The Company continues to be active in evaluating potential
acquisitions although there is no assurance that these efforts will result in
completed transactions as there are many factors that affect the success of such
activities. If the Company does succeed in acquiring a business or product,
there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve any of the benefits that
it might anticipate from such an acquisition and the attention and effort
devoted to the integration of an acquired business could divert management's
attention from normal business operations. If the Company makes acquisitions, it
may incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or create additional expenses, any
of which might adversely affect its financial results. Any financing that the
Company might need for acquisitions may only be available to it on terms that
restrict its business or that impose additional costs that reduce its operating
results.

     DENTSPLY's ability to make payments on its indebtedness, and to fund its
operations depends on its future performance and financial results, which, to a
certain extent, are subject to general economic, financial, competitive,
regulatory and other factors and the interest rate environment that are beyond
its control. Although Management believes that the Company has and will continue
to have sufficient liquidity, there can be no assurance that DENTSPLY's business
will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its
debt and operate its business.

     DENTSPLY's existing borrowing documentation contains a number of covenants
and financial ratios which it is required to satisfy. The most restrictive of
these covenants pertain to asset dispositions, maintenance of certain levels of
net worth, and prescribed ratios of indebtedness to total capital and operating
income plus depreciation and amortization to interest expense. Any breach of any
such covenants or restrictions would result in a default under the existing
borrowing documentation that would permit the lenders to declare all borrowings
under such documentation to be immediately due and payable and, through cross
default provisions, would entitle DENTSPLY's other lenders to accelerate their
loans. DENTSPLY may not be able to meet its obligations under its outstanding
indebtedness in the event that any cross default provision is triggered.

     DENTSPLY, with its significant international operations, is subject to
fluctuations in exchange rates of various foreign currencies and other risks
associated with foreign trade and the impact of currency fluctuations in any
given period can be favorable or unfavorable.

     DENTSPLY's business is subject to periodic review and inspection by the FDA
and similar foreign authorities to monitor DENTSPLY's compliance with the
regulations administered by such authorities. There can be no assurance that
these authorities will not raise compliance concerns. Failure to satisfy any
such requirements can result in governmental enforcement actions, including
possible product seizure, injunction and/or criminal or civil proceedings.

     All dental amalgam filling materials, including those manufactured and sold
by DENTSPLY, contain mercury. The FDA's Dental Devices Classification Panel, the
National Institutes of Health and the United States Public Health Service have
each indicated that no direct hazard to humans from exposure to dental amalgams
has been demonstrated. If the FDA were to reclassify dental mercury and amalgam
filling materials as classes of products requiring FDA pre-market approval,
there can be no assurance that the required approval would be obtained or that
the FDA would permit the continued sale of amalgam filling materials pending its
determination.

                                       10


     The Company's success is dependent upon its management and employees. The
loss of senior management employees or any failure to recruit and train needed
managerial, sales and technical personnel could have a material adverse effect
on the Company.

     Certain provisions of DENTSPLY's Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws
and of Delaware law could have the effect of making it difficult for a third
party to acquire control of DENTSPLY. Such provisions include the division of
the Board of Directors of DENTSPLY into three classes, with the three-year term
of a class expiring each year, a provision allowing the Board of Directors to
issue preferred stock having rights senior to those of the common stock and
certain procedural requirements which make it difficult for stockholders to
amend DENTSPLY's By-laws and call special meetings of stockholders. In addition,
members of DENTSPLY's management and participants in its Employee Stock
Ownership Plan collectively own approximately 10% of the outstanding common
stock of DENTSPLY.

ITEM 1B