.  Risk FactorsThe following are the significant risk factors that could materially impact DENTSPLY’s business, financial condition or future results.  The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.Negative changes could occur in the dental or medical device markets, the general economic environments, or government reimbursement or regulatory programs of the regions in which the Company operates.The success of the Company is largely dependent upon the continued strength of dental and medical device markets and is also somewhat dependent upon the general economic environments of the regions in which DENTSPLY operates.  Negative changes to these markets and economies could materially impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.  In many markets, dental reimbursement is largely out of pocket for the consumer and thus utilization rates can vary significantly depending on economic growth.  For instance, data suggests that the utilization of dental services by working age adults in the U.S. may have declined over the last several years.  Additionally, there is also uncertainty as to what impact the Affordable Care Act may have on dental utilization in the U.S.  In certain markets, particularly in the European Union, government and regulatory programs have a more significant impact than in other markets.  Changes to these programs could have a positive or negative impact on the Company’s results.Prolonged negative economic conditions in domestic and global markets may adversely affect the Company’s suppliers and customers and consumers, which could harm the Company’s financial position.Prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets may affect the Company’s supply chain and the customers and consumers of the Company’s products and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Due to the Company’s international operations, the Company is exposed to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates.Due to the international nature of DENTSPLY’s business, movements in foreign exchange rates may impact the consolidated statements of operations.  With approximately two-thirds of the Company’s sales located in regions outside the U.S., the Company’s consolidated net sales are impacted negatively by the strengthening or positively by the weakening of the U.S. dollar.  Additionally, movements in certain foreign exchange rates may unfavorably or favorably impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.  Although the Company uses certain financial tools to attempt to mitigate market fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that they will not create additional financial obligations on the Company.Volatility in the capital markets or investment vehicles could limit the Company’s ability to access capital or could raise the cost of capital.  Although the Company continues to have positive operating cash flow, a disruption in the credit markets may reduce sources of liquidity available to the Company.  The Company relies on multiple financial institutions to provide funding pursuant to existing and/or future credit agreements, and those institutions may not be able to provide funding in a timely manner, or at all, when required by the Company.  The cost of or lack of available credit could impact the Company’s ability to develop sufficient liquidity to maintain or grow the Company, which in turn may adversely affect the Company’s businesses and results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The Company also manages cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments through various institutions.  There may be a risk of loss on investments based on the volatility of the underlying instruments that would not allow the Company to recover the full principal of its investments.The Company may not be able to access or renew its precious metal consignment facilities resulting in a liquidity constraint equal to the fair market value of the precious metal value of inventory and would subject the Company to inventory valuation risk as the value of the precious metal inventory fluctuates resulting in greater volatility to reported earnings.10The Company’s quarterly operating results and market price for the Company’s common stock may be volatile.DENTSPLY experiences fluctuations in quarterly sales and earnings due to a number of factors, many of which are substantially outside of the Company’s control, including but not limited to:•The timing of new product introductions by DENTSPLY and its competitors;•Timing of industry tradeshows;•Changes in customer inventory levels;•Developments in government reimbursement policies;•Changes in customer preferences and product mix;•The Company’s ability to supply products to meet customer demand;•Fluctuations in manufacturing costs;•Changes in income tax laws and incentives which could create adverse tax consequences;•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and•General economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare and related industries.As a result, the Company may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause its stock price to decline.  The quarterly fluctuations generally result in net sales and operating profits historically being higher in the second and fourth quarters.  The Company typically implements most of its price changes early in the fourth quarter or beginning of the year.  These price changes, other marketing and promotional programs, which are offered to customers from time to time in the ordinary course of business, the management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given period.  Net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first and third quarters, primarily due not only to increased sales in the quarters preceding these quarters, but also due to the impact of holidays and vacations, particularly throughout Europe.In addition to fluctuations in quarterly earnings, a variety of other factors may have a significant impact on the market price of DENTSPLY’s common stock causing volatility.  These factors include, but are not limited to, the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in the Company’s industry and competitors; the Company’s financial condition and cash flows; any future issuances of DENTSPLY’s common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in geographical areas in which the Company does business.Also, the NASDAQ National Market (“NASDAQ”) can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on the NASDAQ.  Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of actual operating performance.  In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies.  This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm the Company’s business.The dental and medical device supplies markets are highly competitive and there is no guarantee that the Company can compete successfully.The worldwide markets for dental and medical products are highly competitive.  There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and market new products successfully, or that new products and technologies introduced by competitors will not render the Company’s products obsolete or noncompetitive.  Additionally, the size and number of the Company’s competitors vary by product line and from region to region.  There are many companies that produce some, but not all, of the same types of products as those produced by the Company.  Certain of DENTSPLY’s competitors may have greater resources than the Company.  In addition, the Company is exposed to the risk that its competitors or its customers may introduce private label, generic, or low cost products that compete with the Company’s products at lower price points.  If these competitors’ products capture significant market share or result in a decrease in market prices overall, this could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.11Inventories maintained by the Company’s customers may fluctuate from time to time.The Company relies in part on its predictions of dealer and customer inventory levels in projecting future demand levels and financial results.  These inventory levels may fluctuate, and may differ from the Company’s predictions, resulting in the Company’s projections of future results being different than expected.  There can be no assurance that the Company’s dealers and customers will maintain levels of inventory in accordance with the Company’s predictions or past history, or that the timing of customers’ inventory build or liquidation will be in accordance with the Company’s predictions or past history.The Company may be unable to develop innovative products or obtain regulatory approval for new products.The market for DENTSPLY’s products is characterized by rapid and significant technological change, evolving industry standards and new product introductions.  There can be no assurance that DENTSPLY’s products will not become noncompetitive or obsolete as a result of such factors or that we will be able to generate any economic return on the Company’s investment in product development.  If the Company’s products or technologies become noncompetitive or obsolete, DENTSPLY’s business could be negatively affected.DENTSPLY has identified new products as an important part of its growth opportunities.  There can be no assurance that DENTSPLY will be able to continue to develop innovative products and that regulatory approval of any new products will be obtained from applicable U.S. or international government or regulatory authorities, or that if such approvals are obtained, such products will be favorably accepted in the marketplace.  Additionally, there is no assurance that entirely new technology or approaches to dental treatment or competitors’ new products will not be introduced that could render the Company’s products obsolete.DENTSPLY may be unable to obtain necessary product approvals and marketing clearances.DENTSPLY must obtain certain approvals and marketing clearances from governmental authorities, including the FDA and similar health authorities in foreign countries to market and sell its products. These regulatory agencies regulate the marketing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, advertising, sale and distribution of medical devices, including the export of medical devices to foreign countries.The regulatory review process which must be completed prior to marketing a new medical device may delay or hinder a product’s timely entry into the marketplace. There can be no assurance that the review or approval process for these products by the FDA or any other applicable governmental authority will occur in a timely fashion, if at all, or that additional regulations will not be adopted or current regulations amended in such a manner as will adversely affect the Company. The FDA also oversees the content of advertising and marketing materials relating to medical devices which have received FDA clearance. Delays or failure to receive the necessary product approvals from governmental authorities could negatively impact DENTSPLY’s operations.DENTSPLY’s business is subject to extensive, complex and changing laws, regulations and orders that failure to comply with could subject us to civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities.DENTSPLY is subject to extensive laws, regulations and orders which are administered by various international, federal and state governmental authorities, including, among others, the FDA, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”), the Bureau of Industry and Security of the United States Department of Commerce (“BIS”), the United States Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice and other similar domestic and foreign authorities.  These regulations include, but are not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, regulations concerning the supply of conflict minerals, various environmental regulations and regulations relating to trade, import and export controls and economic sanctions.  Such laws, regulations and orders may be complex and are subject to change.  Compliance with the numerous applicable existing and new laws, regulations and orders could require us to incur substantial regulatory compliance costs.  Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures to comply with applicable laws, regulations and orders, there can be no assurance that governmental authorities will not raise compliance concerns or perform audits to confirm compliance with such laws, regulations and orders.  Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or orders could result in a range of governmental enforcement actions, including fines or penalties, injunctions and/or criminal or other civil proceedings.  Any such actions could result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.12In 2012, the Company received subpoenas from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Indiana (the “USAO”) and from OFAC requesting documents and information related to compliance with export controls and economic sanctions regulations by certain of its subsidiaries.  The Company also voluntarily contacted OFAC and BIS regarding compliance with export controls and economic sanctions regulations by certain other business units of the Company identified in an ongoing internal review by the Company.  The Company is cooperating with the USAO, OFAC and BIS with respect to these matters.Challenges may be asserted against the Company’s products due to real or perceived quality or health issues.The Company manufactures and sells a wide portfolio of dental and medical device products.  While the Company endeavors to ensure that its products are safe and effective, there can be no assurance that there may not be challenges from time to time regarding the real or perceived quality or health impact of the Company’s products.  All dental amalgam filling materials, including those manufactured and sold by DENTSPLY, contain mercury.  Some groups have asserted that amalgam should be discontinued because of its mercury content and/or that disposal of mercury containing products may be harmful to the environment.  If governmental authorities elect to place restrictions or significant regulations on the sale and/or disposal of dental amalgam, that could have an adverse impact on the Company’s sales of dental amalgam.  DENTSPLY also manufactures and sells non-amalgam dental filling materials that do not contain mercury but that may contain bisphenol-A, commonly called BPA.  BPA is found in many everyday items, such as plastic bottles, foods, detergents and toys, and may be found in certain dental composite materials or sealants either as a by-product of other ingredients that have degraded, or as a trace material left over from the manufacture of other ingredients used in such composites or sealants.  The FDA currently allows the use of BPA in dental materials, medical devices, and food packaging.  Nevertheless, public reports and concerns regarding the potential hazards of dental amalgam or of BPA could contribute to a perceived safety risk for the Company’s products that contain mercury or BPA.  Adverse publicity about the quality or safety of our products, whether or not ultimately based on fact, may have an adverse effect on our brand, reputation and operating results.The Company may be unable to obtain a supply for certain finished goods purchased from third parties.A significant portion of the Company’s injectable anesthetic products, orthodontic products, certain dental cutting instruments, catheters, nickel titanium products and certain other products and raw materials are purchased from a limited number of suppliers and in certain cases single source suppliers, some of which may also compete with the Company.  As there are a limited number of suppliers for these products, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain an adequate supply of these products and raw materials in the future.  Any delays in delivery of or shortages in these products could interrupt and delay manufacturing of the Company’s products and result in the cancellation of orders for these products.  In addition, these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these products to the Company at any time or supply products to competitors.  DENTSPLY may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all.  Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in delays in shipment and increased expenses and may limit the Company’s ability to deliver products to customers.  If the Company is unable to develop reasonably priced alternative sources in a timely manner, or if the Company encounters delays or other difficulties in the supply or manufacturing of such products and other materials internally or from third parties, the Company’s business and results of operations may be harmed.The Company is facing increased competition in its Orthodontics business as it recovers from a supply disruption in 2011 and 2012.One of the Company’s key suppliers, which was the source of certain orthodontic products comprising approximately 9% of the Company’s 2010 consolidated net sales, excluding precious metal content, was located in the zone that was evacuated following the March 2011 tsunami in Japan.  The supplier lost access to its facility and as a result, product supply was severely disrupted through the remainder of 2011 and during a portion of 2012. The supplier gradually restored operations in 2012. The Company has been recovering a portion of the business lost during the supply disruption, but is facing additional competition in part due to capacity added by competition while the Company was out of the market and also in part due to new competitors entering the market and from alternative technologies.  The Company continues to source product from its supplier in Japan under an agreement that is subject to periodic renewal and has also established alternative sources of supply. Given the highly competitive conditions in the market, there is no assurance that the Company will be able to recover market share lost during the product outage, or that its existing or alternative sources will be sufficient to allow the Company to have a competitive position in the marketplace.13The Company’s expansion through acquisition involves risks and may not result in the expected benefits.The Company continues to view acquisitions as a key part of its growth strategy.  The Company continues to be active in evaluating potential acquisitions although there is no assurance that these efforts will result in completed transactions as there are many factors that affect the success of such activities.  If the Company does succeed in acquiring a business or product, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve any of the benefits that it might anticipate from such an acquisition and the attention and effort devoted to the integration of an acquired business could divert management’s attention from normal business operations.  If the Company makes acquisitions, it may incur debt, assume contingent liabilities and/or additional risks, or create additional expenses, any of which might adversely affect its financial results.  Any financing that the Company might need for acquisitions may only be available on terms that restrict its business or that impose additional costs that reduce its operating results.The Company may fail to successfully complete the integration of Astra Tech or fully realize the benefits of the acquisition.The success of the Company’s acquisition of Astra Tech depends upon its ability to realize anticipated benefits from integrating Astra Tech’s business into its operations.  The Company’s ongoing business could be disrupted and management’s attention diverted due to integration planning activities and as a result of the actual integration of the two companies following the acquisition.  In addition, conditions in the dental implant and urological medical device markets, including but not limited to market growth, increased competition and government regulation, may differ from the Company’s assumptions and assessments made at the time of the acquisition.  As a result, the Company may not fully realize the benefits of the integration as anticipated.The Company may fail to realize the expected benefits of its cost reduction and restructuring efforts.In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, the Company may announce from time to time restructuring plans, including workforce reductions, global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives that are intended to generate operating expense or cost of goods sold savings through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions as well as other savings.  Due to the complexities inherent in implementing these types of cost reduction and restructuring activities, the Company may fail to realize expected efficiencies and benefits, or may experience a delay in realizing such efficiencies and benefits, and its operations and business could be disrupted.  Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, changes in restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, adverse effects on employee morale, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair the Company’s ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm its business, and could have a material adverse effect on its competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.Changes in or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable charges to operations.The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with US GAAP.  These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles.  Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to issue new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures.  It is possible that future accounting standards the Company would be required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment applied to the Company’s consolidated financial statements and such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.If the Company’s goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, the Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.Under US GAAP, the Company reviews its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Additionally, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. The valuations used to determine the fair values used to test goodwill or intangible assets are dependent upon various assumptions and reflect management’s best estimates.  Net sales growth, discount rates, earnings multiples and future cash flows are critical assumptions used to determine these fair values.  Slower net sales growth rates in the dental or medical device industries, an increase in discount rates,  unfavorable changes in earnings multiples or a decline in future cash flows, among other factors, may cause a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable. The Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the Company’s goodwill or intangible assets is determined. 14Changes in or interpretations of, tax rules, operating structures, country profitability mix and regulations may adversely affect the Company’s effective tax rates.The Company is a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions.  Unanticipated changes in the Company’s tax rates could affect its future results of operations.  The Company’s future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by factors such as changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company does business, by structural changes in the Company’s businesses, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, by lapses of the availability of the U.S. research and development tax credit, or by changes in the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities.The Company faces the inherent risk of litigation and claims.The Company’s business involves a risk of product liability and other types of legal actions or claims, including possible recall actions affecting the Company’s products.  The primary risks to which the Company is exposed are related to those products manufactured by the Company.  The Company has insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering these risks in amounts that are considered adequate; however, the Company cannot provide assurance that the maintained coverage is sufficient to cover future claims or that the coverage will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost.  Also, other types of claims asserted against the Company may not be covered by insurance.  A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance, or another type of claim which is uninsured or that results in significant adverse publicity against the Company, could harm its business and overall cash flows of the Company.  Various parties, including the Company, own and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights applicable to the dental and medical device fields.  Although the Company believes it operates in a manner that does not infringe upon any third party intellectual property rights, it is possible that a party could assert that one or more of the Company’s products infringe upon such party’s intellectual property and force the Company to pay damages and/or discontinue the sale of certain products.Increasing exposure to markets outside of the U.S. and Europe.We anticipate that sales outside of the U.S. and Europe will continue to expand and account for a significant portion of DENTSPLY’s revenue.  Operating in such locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following:•Economic and political instability;•Import or export licensing requirements;•Additional compliance-related risks;•Trade restrictions;•Product registration requirements;•Longer payment cycles;•Changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs;•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•Potentially adverse tax consequences; and•Potentially weak protection of intellectual property rights.The Company’s success is dependent upon its management and employees.The Company’s success is dependent upon its management and employees.  The loss of senior management employees or failure to recruit and train needed managerial, sales and technical personnel, could have a material adverse effect on the Company.The Company may be unable to sustain the operational and technical expertise that is key to its success.DENTSPLY believes that its manufacturing capabilities are important to its success.  The manufacture of the Company’s products requires substantial and varied technical expertise.  Complex materials technology and processes are necessary to manufacture the Company’s products.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain the necessary operational and technical expertise that is key to its success.15A large number of the Company’s products are manufactured in single manufacturing facilities.Although the Company maintains multiple manufacturing facilities, a large number of the products manufactured by the Company are manufactured in facilities that are the sole source of such products.  As there are a limited number of alternative suppliers for these products, any disruption at a particular Company manufacturing facility could lead to delays, increased expenses, and may damage the Company’s business and results of operations.The Company may not generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt, pay its contractual obligations and operate the business.DENTSPLY’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness and contractual obligations, and to fund its operations depends on its future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors and the interest rate environment that are beyond its control.  Although senior management believes that the Company has and will continue to have sufficient liquidity, there can be no assurance that DENTSPLY’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its debt, pay its contractual obligations and operate its business.The Company may not be able to repay its outstanding debt in the event that cross default provisions are triggered due to a breach of loan covenants.DENTSPLY’s existing borrowing documentation contains a number of covenants and financial ratios, which it is required to satisfy. Any breach of any such covenants or restrictions, the most restrictive of which pertain to asset dispositions, maintenance of certain levels of net worth, and prescribed ratios of indebtedness to total capital and operating income excluding depreciation and amortization of interest expense, would result in a default under the existing borrowing documentation that would permit the lenders to declare all borrowings under such documentation to be immediately due and payable and, through cross default provisions, would entitle DENTSPLY’s other lenders to accelerate their loans.  DENTSPLY may not be able to meet its obligations under its outstanding indebtedness in the event that any cross default provisions are triggered. After closing the Astra Tech acquisition, DENTSPLY has a significant amount of indebtedness. A breach of the covenants under DENTSPLY’s debt instruments outstanding from time to time could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement.In connection with the financing of the acquisition of Astra Tech, the Company incurred additional debt of approximately $1.2 billion.  As a consequence, after closing the Acquisition, DENTSPLY has a significant amount of indebtedness. DENTSPLY also has the ability to incur up to $500 million of indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility and may incur significantly more indebtedness in the future.DENTSPLY’s level of indebtedness and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences including:•making it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations with respect to its indebtedness;•requiring DENTSPLY to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, which would reduce the funds the Company has available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions; and•reducing DENTSPLY’s flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in its business and market conditions.DENTSPLY’s current indebtedness contains a number of covenants and financial ratios, which it is required to satisfy. Under the agreements governing the DENTSPLY’s 4.11% Senior Notes due 2016, the Company will be required to maintain a ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA of less than or equal to 3.50 to 1.00. The Company may need to reduce the amount of its indebtedness outstanding from time to time in order to comply with such ratio, but no assurance can be given that DENTSPLY will be able to do so. DENTSPLY’s failure to maintain such ratio or a breach of the other covenants under its debt instruments outstanding from time to time could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies.16Changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic impacts on credit markets may increase our cost of capital and limit financing options. We utilize the short and long-term debt markets to obtain capital from time to time. Adverse changes in our credit ratings may result in increased borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term borrowing facilities which may in turn limit financing options, including our access to the unsecured borrowing market. We may also be subject to additional restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility. In addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as continued or increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, would adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or obtain additional financing to support operations or to fund new acquisitions or capital-intensive internal initiatives.Certain provisions in the Company’s governing documents may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire DENTSPLY. Certain provisions of DENTSPLY’s Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and of Delaware law could have the effect of making it difficult for a third party to acquire control of DENTSPLY.  Such provisions include, among others, a provision allowing the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock having rights senior to those of the common stock and certain procedural requirements which make it difficult for stockholders to amend DENTSPLY’s By-laws and call special meetings of stockholders.  In addition, members of DENTSPLY’s management and participants in its Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) collectively own approximately 4% of the outstanding common stock of DENTSPLY.Issues related to the quality and safety of the Company’s products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall resulting in harm to the Company’s reputation and negatively impacting the Company’s operating results.The Company’s products generally maintain a good reputation with customers and end-users.  Issues related to quality and safety of products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize the Company’s image and reputation.  Negative publicity related to these types of concerns, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for the Company’s products or cause production and delivery disruptions.  The Company may need to recall products if they become unfit for use.  In addition, the Company could potentially be subject to litigation or government action, which could result in payment of fines or damages.  Cost associated with these potential actions could negatively affect the Company’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity.The Company relies heavily on information and technology to operate its business networks, and any disruption to its technology infrastructure or the Internet could harm the Company’s operations.DENTSPLY operates many aspects of its business including financial reporting and customer relationship management through server- and web-based technologies, and stores various types of data on such servers or with third-parties who may in turn store it on servers or in the “cloud”.  Any disruption to the Internet or to the Company’s or its service providers’ global technology infrastructure, including malware, insecure coding, “Acts of God,” attempts to penetrate networks, data leakage and human error, could pose a threat to the Company’s operations.  While DENTSPLY has invested and continues to invest in information technology risk management and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate the Company from technology disruptions or data loss and the resulting adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial results.Item 1B