. Risk Factors.”7Certain of the Company’s products are classified as medical devices under the United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”). The FDCA requires these products, when sold in the United States, to be safe and effective for their intended use and to comply with the regulations administered by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”).  Certain medical device products are also regulated by comparable agencies in non-U.S. countries in which they are produced or sold.Dental and medical devices of the types sold by DENTSPLY are generally classified by the FDA into a category that renders them subject only to general controls that apply to all medical devices, including regulations regarding alteration, misbranding, notification, record-keeping and good manufacturing practices.  In the European Union, DENTSPLY’s products are subject to the medical devices laws of the various member states, which are based on a Directive of the European Commission.  Such laws generally regulate the safety of the products in a similar way to the FDA regulations.  DENTSPLY products in Europe bear the CE mark showing that such products adhere to European regulations.All dental amalgam filling materials, including those manufactured and sold by DENTSPLY, contain mercury.  Various groups have alleged that dental amalgam containing mercury is harmful to human health and have actively lobbied state and federal lawmakers and regulators to pass laws or adopt regulatory changes restricting the use, or requiring a warning against alleged potential risks, of dental amalgams.  The FDA, the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. Public Health Service have each indicated that there are no demonstrated direct adverse health effects due to exposure to dental amalgam.  In response to concerns raised by certain consumer groups regarding dental amalgam, the FDA formed an advisory committee in 2006 to review peer-reviewed scientific literature on the safety of dental amalgam.  In July 2009, the FDA concluded its review of dental amalgam, confirming its use as a safe and effective restorative material.  Also, as a result of this review, the FDA classified amalgam and its component parts, elemental mercury and powder alloy, as a Class II medical device.  Previously there was no classification for encapsulated amalgam, and dental mercury (Class I) and alloy (Class II) were classified separately.  This new regulation places encapsulated amalgam in the same class of devices as most other restorative materials, including composite and gold fillings, and makes amalgam subject to special controls by FDA.  In that respect, the FDA recommended that certain information about dental amalgam be provided, which includes information indicating that dental amalgam releases low levels of mercury vapor, and that studies on people ages six and over as well as FDA estimated exposures of children under six, have not indicated any adverse health risk associated with the use of dental amalgam.   After the FDA issued this regulation, several petitions were filed asking the FDA to reconsider its position.  Another advisory panel was established by the FDA to consider these petitions.  Hearings of the advisory panel were held in December 2010.  The FDA has taken no action as of the filing date of this Form 10-K from the 2010 advisory panel meeting.In Europe, particularly in Scandinavia and Germany, the contents of mercury in amalgam filling materials have been the subject of public discussion.  As a consequence, in 1994 the German health authorities required suppliers of dental amalgam to amend the instructions for use of amalgam filling materials to include a precaution against the use of amalgam for children less than eighteen years of age and to women of childbearing age.  Additionally, some groups have asserted that the use of dental amalgam should be prohibited because of concerns about environmental impact from the disposition of mercury within dental amalgam, which has resulted in the sale of mercury containing products being banned in Sweden and severely curtailed in Norway.  In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency proposed in September 2014 certain effluent limitation guidelines and standards under the Clean Water Act to help cut discharges of mercury-containing dental amalgam to the environment.  The rule would require affected dentists to use best available technology (amalgam separators) and other best management practices to control mercury discharges to publicly-owned treatment works.  The Company strongly recommends adherence to the American Dental Association’s Best Management Practices for Amalgam Waste and includes this in every package of dental amalgam.  DENTSPLY also manufactures and sells non-amalgam dental filling materials that do not contain mercury.The Company is also subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws applicable in non-United States jurisdictions that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from improperly offering or paying anything of value to non-United States government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  Some of our customer relationships outside of the United States are with governmental entities and therefore may be subject to such anti-bribery laws. In the sale, delivery and servicing of our products outside of the United States, we must also comply with various export control and trade embargo laws and regulations, including those administered by the Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) and the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions relating to certain countries and/or with certain individuals identified by the United States government. Despite our internal compliance program, our policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these requirements are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines and imprisonment.The Company is subject to laws and regulations governing data privacy, including in the United States, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and 8Clinical Health Act of 2009, which restricts the use and disclosure of personal health information, mandates the adoption of standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information and requires us to report certain breaches of unsecured, individually identifiable health information.The U. S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid.The Physician Payments Sunshine Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act require the Company to record all transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for public disclosure.  Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted in several states, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals.The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the laws and regulations that regulate its business.Sources and Supply of Raw Materials and Finished GoodsThe Company manufactures the majority of the products sold by the Company.  Most of the raw materials used by the Company in the manufacture of its products are purchased from various suppliers and are typically available from numerous sources.  No single supplier accounts for more than 10% of DENTSPLY’s supply requirements.Intellectual PropertyProducts manufactured by DENTSPLY are sold primarily under its own trademarks and trade names.  DENTSPLY also owns and maintains more than 2,500 patents throughout the world and is licensed under a number of patents owned by others.DENTSPLY’s policy is to protect its products and technology through patents and trademark registrations both in the U.S. and in significant international markets.  The Company carefully monitors trademark use worldwide and promotes enforcement of its patents and trademarks in a manner that is designed to balance the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for the Company.  DENTSPLY believes its patents and trademark properties are important and contribute to the Company’s marketing position but it does not consider its overall business to be materially dependent upon any individual patent or trademark.EmployeesAt December 31, 2015, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 11,400 employees.  Of these employees, approximately 3,300 were employed in the United States and 8,100 in countries outside of the United States.  Less than 5% of employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements.  Some employees outside of the United States are covered by collective bargaining, union contract or other similar type program.  The Company believes that it generally has a positive relationship with its employees.Environmental MattersDENTSPLY believes that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.  Maintaining this level of compliance has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on the Company’s capital expenditures or on its business.Other Factors Affecting the BusinessApproximately two-thirds of the Company’s sales are located in regions outside the U.S., and the Company’s consolidated net sales can be impacted negatively by the strengthening or positively by the weakening of the U.S. dollar.  Additionally, movements in certain foreign exchange rates may unfavorably or favorably impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity as a number of the Company’s manufacturing and distribution operations are located outside of the U.S.The Company’s business is subject to quarterly fluctuations of consolidated net sales and net income.  The Company typically implements most of its price changes in the beginning of the first or fourth quarter.  Price changes, other marketing and promotional programs as well as the management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given period.  Sales for the industry and the Company are generally strongest in the second and fourth calendar 9quarters and weaker in the first and third calendar quarters, due to the effects of the items noted above and due to the impact of holidays and vacations, particularly throughout Europe.The Company tries to maintain short lead times within its manufacturing, as such, the backlog on products is generally not material to the financial statements.Securities and Exchange Act ReportsThe U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.  The public can obtain any documents that the Company files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  The Company files annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).  The public may read and copy any materials the Company files with the SEC at its Public Reference Room at the following address:The Securities and Exchange Commission100 F Street, NEWashington, D.C. 20549The public may obtain information on the operation of this Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.DENTSPLY also makes available free of charge through its website at www.DENTSPLY.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC.10Item 1A.  Risk FactorsThe following are the significant risk factors that could materially impact DENTSPLY’s business, financial condition or future results.  The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority.The proposed business combination transaction between the Company and Sirona Dental Systems, Inc. may present certain risks to the Company's business and operations.On September 15, 2015, the Company and Sirona Dental Systems, Inc. (“Sirona”) entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) providing for a “merger of equals” business combination transaction. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, which was approved by the boards of directors of the Company and Sirona, at the closing of the transaction each outstanding share of Sirona common stock will be converted into the right to receive 1.8142 shares of Company common stock.  On January 11, 2016, the respective stockholders of the Company and Sirona approved the proposed transaction.  The Company expects the transaction, which remains subject to certain regulatory clearances and the satisfaction or waiver of closing conditions contained in the Merger Agreement, to close in the first quarter of 2016.Risks Related to the MergerThe Merger is subject to the receipt of consents and clearances from foreign regulatory authorities that may impose conditions that could have an adverse effect on DENTSPLY or the combined company or, if not obtained, could prevent completion of the Merger.Before the Merger may be completed, applicable waiting periods must expire or terminate under antitrust and competition laws. In deciding whether to grant regulatory clearances, the relevant governmental entities will consider the effect of the Merger on competition within their relevant jurisdiction. The terms and conditions of the approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company’s business. The Merger agreement may require the Company and/or Sirona to comply with conditions imposed by regulatory entities and, in certain circumstances, either company may refuse to close the Merger on the basis of those regulatory conditions. There can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying completion of the Merger or imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the Merger. In addition, neither DENTSPLY nor Sirona can provide assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the Merger.Any delay in completing the merger may reduce or eliminate the benefits expected to be achieved thereunder.In addition to the required regulatory clearances, the Merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond the Company’s and Sirona’s control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. DENTSPLY cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. Furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the merger could cause the combined company not to realize, or to be delayed in realizing, some or all of the synergies that the Company expects to achieve if the Merger is successfully completed within its expected time frame.Uncertainties associated with the merger may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees which could adversely affect the future business and operations of the combined company. The Company and Sirona are dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of their respective officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. DENTSPLY and Sirona’s current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles within the combined company following the Merger, which may have an adverse effect on the ability of each of the Company and Sirona to attract or retain key management and other key personnel. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the combined company will be able to attract or retain key management personnel and other key employees of the Company and Sirona to the same extent that the Company and Sirona have previously been able to attract or retain employees. A failure by the Company, Sirona, or, following the completion of the Merger, the combined company to attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees during the period prior to or after the completion of the Merger could have a negative impact on their respective businesses.Lawsuits have been filed against each of the Company and Sirona’s board of directors challenging the Merger and an adverse ruling may prevent the merger from being completed.The Company, Merger Sub and the members of Sirona’s board of directors were named as defendants in lawsuits brought by Sirona stockholders challenging the merger and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief to enjoin the defendants from 11completing the merger on the agreed-upon terms. Additional lawsuits may be filed against the Company, Merger Sub, Sirona and/or their respective directors or officers in connection with the Merger.One of the conditions to the closing of the merger is the absence of any order, injunction, decree, statute, rule or regulation by a court or other governmental entity that makes illegal or prohibits the consummation of the merger or the other transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. Consequently, if a settlement or other resolution is not reached in the lawsuits referenced above and the plaintiffs secure injunctive or other relief prohibiting, delaying or otherwise adversely affecting the parties’ ability to complete the merger, then such injunctive or other relief may prevent the merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame or at all.Failure to complete the Merger could negatively impact the stock prices and the future business and financial results of DENTSPLY and Sirona. Completion of the Merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval by governmental entities will not be obtained or that certain other closing conditions will not be satisfied. If the Merger is not completed, the ongoing businesses and financial results of the Company and/or Sirona may be adversely affected and DENTSPLY and/or Sirona will be subject to several risks, including the following:•having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger without receiving the benefits of the merger, including, in certain circumstances, a termination fee of $280 million, in the case of DENTSPLY, and a termination fee of $205 million, in the case of Sirona;•the potential loss of key personnel during the pendency of the merger as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company;•DENTSPLY and Sirona will have been subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of their businesses which may have prevented the respective companies from making certain acquisitions or dispositions or pursuing certain business opportunities while the merger was pending; and•having had the focus of each companies’ management on the merger instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to the companies.If the merger is not completed, DENTSPLY and Sirona cannot assure their respective stockholders that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect the business, financial results and stock prices of DENTSPLY or Sirona.The Merger agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential competing acquirer of either the Company or Sirona.The Merger Agreement contains “no shop” provisions that, subject to limited exceptions, restrict each of DENTSPLY and Sirona’s ability to solicit, initiate or knowingly encourage and induce, or take any other action designed to facilitate competing third-party proposals relating to a merger, reorganization or consolidation of the company or an acquisition of the company’s stock or assets.These provisions could discourage a potential third-party acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant portion of the Company or Sirona from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the market value proposed to be received or realized in the Merger or might result in a potential third-party acquirer proposing to pay a lower price to the stockholders than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the $280 million or $205 million termination fee, as applicable, that may become payable in certain circumstances.If the Merger Agreement is terminated and either the Company or Sirona determines to seek another business combination, it may not be able to negotiate a transaction with another party on terms comparable to, or better than, the terms of the Merger.The Company and Sirona’s executive officers and directors have certain interests in the Merger that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of DENTSPLY and Sirona stockholders generally.DENTSPLY’s and Sirona’s executive officers and directors have certain interests in the merger that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of DENTSPLY stockholders and Sirona stockholders generally. DENTSPLY’s executive officers and Sirona’s executive officers negotiated the terms of the merger agreement. The executive officers of DENTSPLY and Sirona have arrangements with DENTSPLY or Sirona, as applicable, that provide for severance benefits if their employment is terminated under certain circumstances following the completion of the Merger. In addition, certain of Sirona’s compensation and benefit plans and arrangements provide for payment or accelerated vesting or distribution of certain rights or benefits upon completion 12of the Merger. Under the Merger Agreement, DENTSPLY and Sirona may act before completion of the Merger to accelerate the vesting of equity awards (restricted stock units and, in the case of DENTSPLY, also stock options) held by some or all of its non-employee directors who will not continue as directors of the combined company after the Merger. Executive officers and directors also have rights to indemnification and directors’ and officers’ liability insurance that will survive completion of the merger.Upon completion of the Merger, the board of directors of the combined company will be comprised of eleven members, consisting of six of DENTSPLY’s current directors and five of Sirona’s current directors. Mr. Jeffery T. Slovin, currently a Director and the President and Chief Executive Officer of Sirona, will serve as a Director and as Chief Executive Officer of the combined company, and Mr. Wise, DENTSPLY’s current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will serve as Executive Chairman of the board of directors of the combined company. Additionally, the combined company’s management team will include executives from each of DENTSPLY and Sirona. From DENTSPLY, Christopher T. Clark (the current President and Chief Financial Officer of DENTSPLY) will serve as President and Chief Operating Officer, Technologies of the combined company, and James G. Mosch (the current Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of DENTSPLY) will serve as President and Chief Operating Officer, Dental and Healthcare Consumables of the combined company. From Sirona, Ulrich Michel (the current Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Sirona) will serve as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the combined company. Each of DENTSPLY’s and Sirona’s boards of directors were aware of these interests at the time each approved the Merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger agreement. These interests, including the continued employment of certain of  DENTSPLY’s and Sirona’s executive officers by the combined company, the continued positions of certain of DENTSPLY’S and Sirona’s directors as directors of the combined company and the indemnification of former directors and officers by the combined company, may cause DENTSPLY’S and Sirona’s directors and executive officers to view the Merger proposal differently and more favorably than stockholders generally.Current holders of DENTSPLY’s and Sirona’s common stock will have a reduced ownership and voting interest after the Merger and will exercise less influence over management.Current holders of DENTSPLY and Sirona common stock have the right to vote in the election of the board of directors and on other matters affecting DENTSPLY and Sirona, respectively. Upon the completion of the Merger, each of Sirona’s stockholders who receives shares of DENTSPLY common stock will become a stockholder of the combined company with a percentage ownership of the combined company that is smaller than such stockholder’s percentage ownership of Sirona. Similarly, after completion of the Merger, the shares of combined company common stock retained by each DENTSPLY stockholder will represent a smaller percentage ownership of the combined company. It is currently expected that Sirona’s stockholders immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger as a group will receive shares in the Merger constituting approximately 42% of the shares of combined company common stock on a fully diluted basis immediately after the Merger. As a result, stockholders of DENTSPLY immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger as a group will own approximately 58% of the shares of combined company common stock on a fully diluted basis immediately after the Merger. Because of this, DENTSPLY and Sirona stockholders will have less influence on the management and policies of the combined company than they now have on the management and policies of DENTSPLY and Sirona, respectively.Risks Related to the Combined Company Following the MergerThe combined company may be unable to integrate successfully DENTSPLY’s and Sirona’s businesses and realize the anticipated benefits of the Merger.The success of the Merger will depend, in large part, on the ability of the combined company to realize the anticipated benefits, including cost savings, from combining DENTSPLY and Sirona’s businesses. To realize these anticipated benefits, DENTSPLY and Sirona’s businesses must be successfully integrated. This integration will be complex and time consuming. The failure to integrate successfully and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in the combined company not fully achieving the anticipated benefits of the Merger. Potential difficulties the combined company may encounter as part of the integration process include, but are not limited to, the following:•the inability to successfully combine DENTSPLY and Sirona’s businesses in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full revenue and cost synergies anticipated to result from the Merger;•complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies;•coordinating geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities;•addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies;13•integrating the workforces of the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and•potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased or new expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the Merger.In addition, DENTSPLY and Sirona have operated and, until the completion of the Merger, will continue to operate independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in:•diversion of the attention of each company’s management;•disruption of existing relationships with distributors, suppliers and other manufacturers in the industry that drive a substantial amount of revenues to each company; and•the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect each company’s ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies, DENTSPLY or Sirona’s ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger, or which could reduce each company’s earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company.The Merger may not be accretive and may cause dilution to the combined company’s adjusted earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of the combined company’s common stock.DENTSPLY and Sirona currently anticipate that the Merger will be accretive to stockholders on an adjusted earnings per share basis within the first full year following the completion of the Merger. This expectation is based on preliminary estimates, which may materially change. The combined company could also encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs or other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the Merger. All of these factors could cause dilution to the combined company’s adjusted earnings per share or decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the Merger and cause a decrease in the market value of the combined company’s common stock.The future results of the combined company will suffer if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the Merger.Following the Merger, the size of the business of the combined company will increase significantly beyond the current size of either DENTSPLY or Sirona’s business. The combined company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. There can be no assurances that the combined company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits currently anticipated from the Merger.The combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the Merger and the integration of DENTSPLY and Sirona.The combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses in connection with the Merger and the integration of DENTSPLY and Sirona. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, revenue management, manufacturing, research and development, marketing and benefits. While DENTSPLY and Sirona have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are many factors beyond each company’s control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. These integration expenses likely will result in the combined company taking significant charges against earnings following the completion of the Merger, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present.These risks, as they relate to the Company as part of the combined company and additional risks associated with the merger, are described in more detail under the heading “Risk Factors” in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-207669) filed with the SEC.Negative changes could occur in the dental or medical device markets, the general economic environments, or government reimbursement or regulatory programs of the regions in which the Company operates.14The success of the Company is largely dependent upon the continued strength of dental and medical device markets and is also somewhat dependent upon the general economic environments of the regions in which DENTSPLY operates.  Negative changes to these markets and economies could materially impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.  In many markets, dental reimbursement is largely out of pocket for the consumer and thus utilization rates can vary significantly depending on economic growth.  For instance, data suggests that the utilization of dental services by working age adults in the U.S. may have declined over the last several years.  Additionally, there is also uncertainty as to what impact the Affordable Care Act may have on dental utilization in the U.S.  In certain markets, particularly in the European Union, government and regulatory programs have a more significant impact than in other markets.  Changes to these programs could have a positive or negative impact on the Company’s results.Prolonged negative economic conditions in domestic and global markets may adversely affect the Company’s suppliers and customers and consumers, which could harm the Company’s financial position.Prolonged negative changes in domestic and global economic conditions or disruptions of either or both of the financial and credit markets may affect the Company’s supply chain and the customers and consumers of the Company’s products and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.Due to the Company’s international operations, the Company is exposed to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates.Due to the international nature of DENTSPLY’s business, movements in foreign exchange rates may impact the consolidated statements of operations.  With approximately two-thirds of the Company’s sales located in regions outside the U.S., the Company’s consolidated net sales are impacted negatively by the strengthening or positively by the weakening of the U.S. dollar.  Additionally, movements in certain foreign exchange rates may unfavorably or favorably impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and liquidity as a number of the Company’s manufacturing and distribution operations are located outside of the U.S.  Changes in exchange rates may have a negative effect on the Company’s customers’ access to credit as well as on the underlying strength of particular economies and dental markets.  Although the Company may use certain financial instruments to attempt to mitigate market fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that they will not create additional financial obligations on the Company.Volatility in the capital markets or investment vehicles could limit the Company’s ability to access capital or could raise the cost of capital.Although the Company continues to have positive operating cash flow, a disruption in the credit markets may reduce sources of liquidity available to the Company.  The Company relies on multiple financial institutions to provide funding pursuant to existing and/or future credit agreements, and those institutions may not be able to provide funding in a timely manner, or at all, when required by the Company.  The cost of or lack of available credit could impact the Company’s ability to develop sufficient liquidity to maintain or grow the Company, which in turn may adversely affect the Company’s businesses and results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.The Company also manages cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments through various institutions.  There may be a risk of loss on investments based on the volatility of the underlying instruments that would not allow the Company to recover the full principal of its investments.The Company may not be able to access or renew its precious metal consignment facilities resulting in a liquidity constraint equal to the fair market value of the precious metal value of inventory and would subject the Company to inventory valuation risk as the value of the precious metal inventory fluctuates resulting in greater volatility to reported earnings.The Company’s quarterly operating results and market price for the Company’s common stock may be volatile.DENTSPLY experiences fluctuations in quarterly sales and earnings due to a number of factors, many of which are substantially outside of the Company’s control, including but not limited to:•The timing of new product introductions by DENTSPLY and its competitors;•Timing of industry trade shows;•Changes in customer inventory levels;•Developments in government reimbursement policies;•Changes in customer preferences and product mix;•The Company’s ability to supply products to meet customer demand;•Fluctuations in manufacturing costs;15•Changes in income tax laws and incentives which could create adverse tax consequences;•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and•General economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare and related industries.As a result, the Company may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause its stock price to decline.  Quarterly fluctuations generally result in net sales and operating profits historically being higher in the second and fourth quarters.  The Company typically implements most of its price changes early in the fourth quarter or beginning of the year.  These price changes, other marketing and promotional programs, which are offered to customers from time to time in the ordinary course of business, the management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given period.  Net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first and third quarters, primarily due not only to increased sales in the quarters preceding these quarters, but also due to the impact of holidays and vacations, particularly throughout Europe.In addition to fluctuations in quarterly earnings, a variety of other factors may have a significant impact on the market price of DENTSPLY’s common stock causing volatility.  These factors include, but are not limited to, the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in the Company’s industry and competitors; the Company’s financial condition and cash flows; any future issuances of DENTSPLY’s common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in geographical areas in which the Company does business.Also, the NASDAQ National Market (“NASDAQ”) can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on the NASDAQ.  Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of the Company’s common stock, regardless of actual operating performance.  In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies.  This type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm the Company’s business.The dental and medical device supplies markets are highly competitive and there is no guarantee that the Company can compete successfully.The worldwide markets for dental and medical products are highly competitive.  There can be no assurance that the Company will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and market new products successfully, or that new products and technologies introduced by competitors will not render the Company’s products obsolete or noncompetitive.  Additionally, the size and number of the Company’s competitors vary by product line and from region to region.  There are many companies that produce some, but not all, of the same types of products as those produced by the Company.  Certain of DENTSPLY’s competitors may have greater resources than the Company.  In addition, the Company is exposed to the risk that its competitors or its customers may introduce private label, generic, or low cost products that compete with the Company’s products at lower price points.  If these competitors’ products capture significant market share or result in a decrease in market prices overall, this could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.The Company may be unable to develop innovative products or obtain regulatory approval for new products.The market for DENTSPLY’s products is characterized by rapid and significant technological change, new intellectual property associated with that technological change, evolving industry standards, and new product introductions.  Additionally, DENTSPLY’s patent portfolio continues to change with patents expiring through the normal course of their life.  There can be no assurance that DENTSPLY’s products will not lose their competitive advantage or become noncompetitive or obsolete as a result of such factors, or that we will be able to generate any economic return on the Company’s investment in product development.  If the Company’s products or technologies lose their competitive advantage or become noncompetitive or obsolete, DENTSPLY’s business could be negatively affected.DENTSPLY has identified new products as an important part of its growth opportunities.  There can be no assurance that DENTSPLY will be able to continue to develop innovative products and that regulatory approval of any new products will be obtained from applicable U.S. or international government or regulatory authorities, or that if such approvals are obtained, such products will be favorably accepted in the marketplace.  Additionally, there is no assurance that entirely new technology or approaches to dental treatment or competitors’ new products will not be introduced that could render the Company’s products obsolete.16DENTSPLY’s business is subject to extensive, complex and changing laws, regulations and orders that failure to comply with could subject us to civil or criminal penalties or other liabilities.DENTSPLY is subject to extensive laws, regulations and orders which are administered by various international, federal and state governmental authorities, including, among others, the FDA, the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (“OFAC”), the Bureau of Industry and Security of the United States Department of Commerce (“BIS”), the United States Federal Trade Commission, the United States Department of Justice and other similar domestic and foreign authorities.  These regulations include, but are not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar international anti-bribery laws, the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, regulations concerning the supply of conflict minerals, various environmental regulations and regulations relating to trade, import and export controls and economic sanctions.  Such laws, regulations and orders may be complex and are subject to change.Compliance with the numerous applicable existing and new laws, regulations and orders could require us to incur substantial regulatory compliance costs.  Although the Company has implemented policies and procedures to comply with applicable laws, regulations and orders, there can be no assurance that governmental authorities will not raise compliance concerns or perform audits to confirm compliance with such laws, regulations and orders.  Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations or orders could result in a range of governmental enforcement actions, including fines or penalties, injunctions and/or criminal or other civil proceedings.  Any such actions could result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated revenue and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.In 2012, the Company received subpoenas from the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of Indiana (the “USAO”) and from OFAC requesting documents and information related to compliance with export controls and economic sanctions regulations by certain of its subsidiaries.  The Company also voluntarily contacted OFAC and BIS regarding compliance with export controls and economic sanctions regulations by certain other business units of the Company identified in an ongoing internal review by the Company.  The Company is cooperating with the USAO, OFAC and BIS with respect to these matters.The Company may fail to realize the expected benefits of its cost reduction and restructuring efforts.In order to operate more efficiently and control costs, the Company may announce from time to time restructuring plans, including workforce reductions, global facility consolidations and other cost reduction initiatives that are intended to generate operating expense or cost of goods sold savings through direct and indirect overhead expense reductions as well as other savings.  The Company has targeted adjusted operating income margins of at least 20% as the benefits of these initiatives, net of related investments, are realized over time.  Due to the complexities inherent in implementing these types of cost reduction and restructuring activities, and the quarterly phasing of related investments, the Company may fail to realize expected efficiencies and benefits, or may experience a delay in realizing such efficiencies and benefits, and its operations and business could be disrupted.  Company management may be required to divert their focus to managing these disruptions, and implementation may require the agreement of the Company’s labor unions.  Risks associated with these actions and other workforce management issues include delays in implementation of anticipated workforce reductions, additional unexpected costs, changes in restructuring plans that increase or decrease the number of employees affected, negative impact on the Company’s relationship with labor unions, adverse effects on employee morale, and the failure to meet operational targets due to the loss of employees, any of which may impair the Company’s ability to achieve anticipated cost reductions or may otherwise harm its business, and could have a material adverse effect on its competitive position, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.The Company may be unable to obtain a supply for certain finished goods purchased from third parties.A significant portion of the Company’s injectable anesthetic products, orthodontic products, certain dental cutting instruments, catheters, nickel titanium products and certain other products and raw materials are purchased from a limited number of suppliers and in certain cases single source suppliers, some of which may also compete with the Company.  As there are a limited number of suppliers for these products, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain an adequate supply of these products and raw materials in the future.  Any delays in delivery of or shortages in these products could interrupt and delay manufacturing of the Company’s products and result in the cancellation of orders for these products.  In addition, these suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of these products to the Company at any time or supply products to competitors.  DENTSPLY may not be able to identify and integrate alternative sources of supply in a timely fashion or at all.  Any transition to alternate suppliers may result in delays in shipment and increased expenses and may limit the Company’s ability to deliver products to customers.  If the Company is unable to develop reasonably priced alternative sources in a timely manner, or if the Company encounters delays or other difficulties in the supply or manufacturing of such products and other materials internally or from third parties, the Company’s business and results of operations may be harmed.17DENTSPLY may be unable to obtain necessary product approvals and marketing clearances.DENTSPLY must obtain certain approvals and marketing clearances from governmental authorities, including the FDA and similar health authorities in foreign countries to manufacture, market and sell its products. These regulatory agencies regulate the marketing, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, advertising, sale and distribution of medical devices, including the export of medical devices to foreign countries.The regulatory review process which must be completed prior to marketing a new medical device may delay or hinder a product’s timely entry into the marketplace. There can be no assurance that the review or approval process for these products by the FDA or any other applicable governmental authority will occur in a timely fashion, if at all, or that additional regulations will not be adopted or current regulations amended in such a manner as will adversely affect the Company. The FDA also oversees the content of advertising and marketing materials relating to medical devices which have received FDA clearance. Delays or failure to receive the necessary product approvals from governmental authorities could negatively impact DENTSPLY’s operations.There also can be no assurance that regulatory agencies may not disallow the use of certain raw material components, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s ability to manufacture, market and sell particular products or product lines.Inventories maintained by the Company’s customers may fluctuate from time to time.The Company relies in part on its predictions of dealer and customer inventory levels in projecting future demand levels and financial results.  These inventory levels may fluctuate, and may differ from the Company’s predictions, resulting in the Company’s projections of future results being different than expected.  There can be no assurance that the Company’s dealers and customers will maintain levels of inventory in accordance with the Company’s predictions or past history, or that the timing of customers’ inventory build or liquidation will be in accordance with the Company’s predictions or past history.Changes in or interpretations of, tax rules, operating structures, country profitability mix and regulations may adversely affect the Company’s effective tax rates.The Company is a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions.  Unanticipated changes in the Company’s tax rates could affect its future results of operations.  The Company’s future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by factors such as changes in, or interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which the Company does business, by structural changes in the Company’s businesses, by unanticipated decreases in the amount of revenue or earnings in countries with low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities.The Company’s expansion through acquisition involves risks and may not result in the expected benefits.The Company continues to view acquisitions as a key part of its growth strategy.  The Company continues to be active in evaluating potential acquisitions although there is no assurance that these efforts will result in completed transactions as there are many factors that affect the success of such activities.  If the Company does succeed in acquiring a business or product, there can be no assurance that the Company will achieve any of the benefits that it might anticipate from such an acquisition and the attention and effort devoted to the integration of an acquired business could divert management’s attention from normal business operations.  If the Company makes acquisitions, it may incur debt, assume contingent liabilities and/or additional risks, or create additional expenses, any of which might adversely affect its financial results.  Any financing that the Company might need for acquisitions may only be available on terms that restrict its business or that impose additional costs that reduce its operating results.Challenges may be asserted against the Company’s products due to real or perceived quality or health issues.The Company manufactures and sells a wide portfolio of dental and medical device products.  While the Company endeavors to ensure that its products are safe and effective, there can be no assurance that there may not be challenges from time to time regarding the real or perceived quality or health impact of the Company’s products or certain raw material components of the Company’s products.  All dental amalgam filling materials, including those manufactured and sold by DENTSPLY, contain mercury.  Some groups have asserted that amalgam should be discontinued because of its mercury content and/or that disposal of mercury containing products may be harmful to the environment.  If governmental authorities elect to place restrictions or significant regulations on the sale and/or disposal of dental amalgam, that could have an adverse impact on the Company’s sales of dental amalgam.  DENTSPLY also manufactures and sells non-amalgam dental filling materials that do not contain mercury but that may contain bisphenol-A, commonly called BPA.  BPA is found in many everyday items, such as plastic bottles, foods, detergents and toys, and may be found in certain dental composite materials or sealants either as a by-product of other ingredients that have degraded, or as a trace material left over from the manufacture of other ingredients used in such composites or sealants.  The FDA 18currently allows the use of BPA in dental materials, medical devices, and food packaging.  Nevertheless, public reports and concerns regarding the potential hazards of dental amalgam or of BPA could contribute to a perceived safety risk for the Company’s products that contain mercury or BPA.  Adverse publicity about the quality or safety of our products, whether or not ultimately based on fact, may have an adverse effect on our brand, reputation and operating results.Issues related to the quality and safety of the Company’s products, ingredients or packaging could cause a product recall or discontinuation resulting in harm to the Company’s reputation and negatively impacting the Company’s operating results.The Company’s products generally maintain a good reputation with customers and end-users.  Issues related to quality and safety of products, ingredients or packaging, could jeopardize the Company’s image and reputation.  Negative publicity related to these types of concerns, whether valid or not, might negatively impact demand for the Company’s products or cause production and delivery disruptions.  The Company may need to recall or discontinue products if they become unfit for use.  In addition, the Company could potentially be subject to litigation or government action, which could result in payment of fines or damages.  Cost associated with these potential actions could negatively affect the Company’s operating results, financial condition and liquidity.The Company’s Orthodontics business is subject to risk.The Company sources a substantial portion of its orthodontic products from a Japanese supplier under an agreement that is subject to periodic renewal.  The Company also has established alternative sources of supply.  The market for orthodontic products is highly competitive and subject to significant negative price pressure.Changes in or interpretations of, accounting principles could result in unfavorable charges to operations.The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in accordance with US GAAP.  These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles.  Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to issue new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures.  It is possible that future accounting standards the Company would be required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment applied to the Company’s consolidated financial statements and such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.If the Company’s goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, the Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings.Under US GAAP, the Company reviews its goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  Additionally, goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. The valuations used to determine the fair values used to test goodwill or intangible assets are dependent upon various assumptions and reflect management’s best estimates.  Net sales growth, discount rates, earnings multiples and future cash flows are critical assumptions used to determine these fair values.  Slower net sales growth rates in the dental or medical device industries, an increase in discount rates,  unfavorable changes in earnings multiples or a decline in future cash flows, among other factors, may cause a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of the Company’s goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable. The Company may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the Company’s goodwill or intangible assets is determined.The Company faces the inherent risk of litigation and claims.The Company’s business involves a risk of product liability and other types of legal actions or claims, including possible recall actions affecting the Company’s products.  The primary risks to which the Company is exposed are related to those products manufactured by the Company.  The Company has insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering these risks in amounts that are considered adequate; however, the Company cannot provide assurance that the maintained coverage is sufficient to cover future claims or that the coverage will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost.  Also, other types of claims asserted against the Company may not be covered by insurance.  A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance, or another type of claim which is uninsured or that results in significant adverse publicity against the Company, could harm its business and overall cash flows of the Company.Various parties, including the Company, own and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights applicable to the dental and medical device fields.  Although the Company believes it operates in a manner that does not infringe upon any third 19party intellectual property rights, it is possible that a party could assert that one or more of the Company’s products infringe upon such party’s intellectual property and force the Company to pay damages and/or discontinue the sale of certain products.Increasing exposure to markets outside of the U.S. and Europe.We anticipate that sales outside of the U.S. and Europe will continue to expand and account for a significant portion of DENTSPLY’s revenue.  Operating in such locations is subject to a number of uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the following:•Economic and political instability;•Import or export licensing requirements;•Additional compliance-related risks;•Trade restrictions;•Product registration requirements;•Longer payment cycles;•Changes in regulatory requirements and tariffs;•Fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•Potentially adverse tax consequences; and•Potentially weak protection of intellectual property rights.The Company’s success is dependent upon its management and employees.The Company’s success is dependent upon its management and employees.  The loss of senior management employees or failure to recruit and train needed managerial, sales and technical personnel, could have a material adverse effect on the Company.The Company may be unable to sustain the operational and technical expertise that is key to its success.DENTSPLY believes that its manufacturing capabilities are important to its success.  The manufacture of the Company’s products requires substantial and varied technical expertise.  Complex materials technology and processes are necessary to manufacture the Company’s products.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain the necessary operational and technical expertise that is key to its success.A large number of the Company’s products are manufactured in single manufacturing facilities.Although the Company maintains multiple manufacturing facilities, a large number of the products manufactured by the Company are manufactured in facilities that are the sole source of such products.  As there are a limited number of alternative suppliers for these products, any disruption at a particular Company manufacturing facility could lead to delays, increased expenses, and may damage the Company’s business and results of operations.The Company relies heavily on information and technology to operate its business networks, and any disruption to its technology infrastructure or the Internet could harm the Company’s operations.DENTSPLY operates many aspects of its business including financial reporting and customer relationship management through server- and web-based technologies, and stores various types of data on such servers or with third-parties who may in turn store it on servers or in the “cloud”.  Any disruption to the Internet or to the Company’s or its service providers’ global technology infrastructure, including malware, insecure coding, “Acts of God,” attempts to penetrate networks, data leakage and human error, could pose a threat to the Company’s operations.  While DENTSPLY has invested and continues to invest in information technology risk management and disaster recovery plans, these measures cannot fully insulate the Company from technology disruptions or data loss and the resulting adverse effect on the Company’s operations and financial results.The Company may not generate sufficient cash flow to service its debt, pay its contractual obligations and operate the business.DENTSPLY’s ability to make payments on its indebtedness and contractual obligations, and to fund its operations depends on its future performance and financial results, which, to a certain extent, are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors and the interest rate environment that are beyond its control.  Although senior management believes that the Company has and will continue to have sufficient liquidity, there can be no assurance that DENTSPLY’s business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service its debt, pay its contractual obligations and operate its business.20The Company may not be able to repay its outstanding debt in the event that cross default provisions are triggered due to a breach of loan covenants.DENTSPLY’s existing borrowing documentation contains a number of covenants and financial ratios, which it is required to satisfy. Any breach of any such covenants or restrictions, the most restrictive of which pertain to asset dispositions, maintenance of certain levels of net worth, and prescribed ratios of indebtedness to total capital and operating income excluding depreciation and amortization of interest expense, would result in a default under the existing borrowing documentation that would permit the lenders to declare all borrowings under such documentation to be immediately due and payable and, through cross default provisions, would entitle DENTSPLY’s other lenders to accelerate their loans.  DENTSPLY may not be able to meet its obligations under its outstanding indebtedness in the event that any cross default provisions are triggered.DENTSPLY has a significant amount of indebtedness. A breach of the covenants under DENTSPLY’s debt instruments outstanding from time to time could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement.The Company has debt securities outstanding of approximately $1.2 billion.  DENTSPLY also has the ability to incur up to $500 million of indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility and may incur significantly more indebtedness in the future.DENTSPLY’s level of indebtedness and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences including:•making it more difficult for the Company to satisfy its obligations with respect to its indebtedness;•requiring DENTSPLY to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, which would reduce the funds the Company has available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions; and•reducing DENTSPLY’s flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in its business and market conditions.DENTSPLY’s current debt agreements contain a number of covenants and financial ratios, which the Company is required to satisfy. Under the Note Purchase Agreement dated December 11, 2015, the Company will be required to maintain ratios of debt outstanding to total capital not to exceed the ratio of 0.6 to 1.0, and operating income less depreciation and amortization to interest expense of not less than 3.0 times.  All of the Company’s outstanding debt agreements have been amended to reflect these covenants.  The Company may need to reduce the amount of its indebtedness outstanding from time to time in order to comply with such ratios, though no assurance can be given that DENTSPLY will be able to do so.  DENTSPLY’s failure to maintain such ratios or a breach of the other covenants under its debt agreements outstanding from time to time could result in an event of default under the applicable agreement.  Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies.Changes in our credit ratings or macroeconomic impacts on credit markets may increase our cost of capital and limit financing options.We utilize the short and long-term debt markets to obtain capital from time to time. Adverse changes in our credit ratings may result in increased borrowing costs for future long-term debt or short-term borrowing facilities which may in turn limit financing options, including our access to the unsecured borrowing market. We may also be subject to additional restrictive covenants that would reduce our flexibility. In addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as continued or increased volatility or disruption in the credit markets, would adversely affect our ability to refinance existing debt or obtain additional financing to support operations or to fund new acquisitions or capital-intensive internal initiatives.Certain provisions in the Company’s governing documents, and of Delaware law, may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire DENTSPLY.Certain provisions of DENTSPLY’s Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws and of Delaware law could have the effect of making it difficult for a third party to acquire control of DENTSPLY.  Such provisions include, among others, a provision allowing the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock having rights senior to those of the common stock and certain procedural requirements which make it difficult for stockholders to amend DENTSPLY’s By-laws and call special meetings of stockholders.  In addition, members of DENTSPLY’s management and participants in its Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) collectively own approximately 4% of the outstanding common stock of DENTSPLY.  Delaware law imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between the Company and any holder of 15% or more of the Company’s outstanding common stock.21The Company’s results could be negatively impacted by a natural disaster or similar event.The Company operates in more than 120 countries and its and its suppliers’ manufacturing facilities are located in multiple locations around the world.  Any natural or other disaster in such a location could result in serious harm to the Company’s business and consolidated results of operations.  Any insurance maintained by the Company may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from such disasters or other business interruptions, and our emergency response plans may not be effective in preventing or minimizing losses in the future. Item 1B