Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    PRODUCT
    DEVELOPMENT


 


    Yahoo! continually enhances, expands and launches products and
    features to meet evolving user, advertiser and publisher needs
    for technological innovation and a deeper, more integrated
    experience.


 


    As a complement to our core engineering and production teams, we
    also have scientists working in our Yahoo! Research Labs
    dedicated to developing novel algorithms and technology that
    empower users, businesses, and advertisers worldwide to maximize
    the social and economic potential of the Internet.  Yahoo!
    performs research to



    
    13



Table of Contents




    address fundamental problems facing users such as: making their
    search for information on the Internet easier and more relevant;
    bringing them tools to help solve their problems; finding new
    and better ways for them to connect and communicate with family
    and community; and guiding family and friends towards
    high-quality products, songs, movies, and other resources.  We
    also use technology to match relevant business services with
    customers most likely to be interested in such services.  Yahoo!
    Research Berkeley is a research facility that operates in a
    unique partnership between Yahoo! Research Labs and the
    University of California at Berkeley (“UCB”). We
    believe this is a mutually beneficial intellectual property
    arrangement, and an opportunity for students and staff at UCB to
    gain access to resource and scale typically not afforded in the
    academic environment.  The mission of Yahoo! Research Berkeley
    is to explore and invent social media and mobile media
    technology and applications that will enable people to create,
    describe, share, find and remix media on the web.


 


    Most of our software products and features are developed
    internally; however, we purchase technology and license
    intellectual property rights when the opportunity is
    strategically aligned, operationally compatible and economically
    advantageous.  We believe that Yahoo! is not materially
    dependent upon licenses and other agreements with third parties
    relating to product development.


 


    Yahoo! launched its new search marketing system, known as
    Project Panama, in the fourth quarter of 2006. We have been
    transitioning our advertisers on to the new system in the United
    States and will begin transitioning our advertisers in
    international markets in the second quarter of 2007. This system
    provides advertisers with additional tools for budgeting,
    testing and optimizing their marketing campaigns.  This new
    system also provides a new ranking model launched in early
    February 2007 that ranks ads by relevance in addition to keyword
    bid price.  We believe the new search marketing system will
    provide a more relevant search experience to users, more
    valuable customer leads to advertisers, and additional
    opportunities to our distribution partners.


 


    Also during 2006, we introduced the Hack Yahoo! Program, which
    is designed to encourage and empower employee and third-party
    innovation.  This global program consists of a speaker series,
    an intranet site and blog, workshops, and quarterly “Hack
    Days” that are an ongoing opportunity to foster and
    celebrate the creativity of our employees and third parties.
    Consistent with this spirit of innovation and openness, we
    sponsored the Yahoo! Developer Network which makes Yahoo!’s
    infrastructure, platform and audience accessible to
    third-parties via Application Programming Interfaces (or APIs.)
    This has established a mutually beneficial ecosystem, in which
    thousands of developers have used and built upon technology from
    Yahoo! services, including Yahoo! Search,Yahoo! Photos and
    Yahoo! Maps, to further increase the relevance of Yahoo!
    products and services for individual users and the greater
    community.


 


    Our engineering and production teams are primarily located in
    our Sunnyvale, California headquarters and in Carlsbad,
    California; Burbank, California; Dallas, Texas; and Bangalore,
    India.  Our research teams are located in our Sunnyvale,
    California headquarters and in Berkeley, California; Burbank,
    California; New York, New York; Barcelona, Spain; and Santiago,
    Chile.  We have internally developed, acquired or licensed the
    products and services we offer.  Product development expenses
    for 2004, 2005 and 2006 totaled approximately $381 million,
    $570 million, and $833 million, respectively, which
    included stock-based compensation expense of $12 million,
    $22 million and $145 million, respectively.


 



    INTELLECTUAL
    PROPERTY


 


    We create, own and maintain a wide array of intellectual
    property assets that we believe are among our most valuable
    assets.  Our intellectual property assets include patents and
    patent applications related to our innovations, products and
    services; trademarks related to our brands, products and
    services; copyrights in software and creative content; trade
    secrets; and other intellectual property rights and licenses of
    various kinds.  We seek to protect our intellectual property
    assets through patent, copyright, trade secret, trademark and
    other laws of the United States and other countries, and through
    contractual provisions.  We enter into confidentiality and
    invention assignment agreements with our employees and
    contractors, and non-disclosure agreements with third parties
    with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and
    disclosure of, our proprietary information.  We consider the
    Yahoo! trademark and our many related trademarks to be among our
    most valuable assets and we have registered these trademarks in
    the United States and other countries throughout the world and
    aggressively seek to protect them.  We have licensed in the
    past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of
    our proprietary rights, such as



    
    14



Table of Contents




    trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret rights to third
    parties.  Additional information regarding certain risks related
    to our intellectual property is included in Part I,
    Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    EMPLOYEES


 


    As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately
    11,400 full-time employees.  Our future success is
    substantially dependent on the performance of our senior
    management and key technical personnel, as well as our
    continuing ability to attract and retain highly qualified
    technical and managerial personnel.  Additional information
    regarding certain risks related to our employees is included in
    Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this
    Annual Report on
    Form 10-K.


 



    AVAILABLE
    INFORMATION


 


    Our website is located at http://www.yahoo.com. Our investor
    relations website is located at
    http://yhoo.client.shareholder.com/. We make available free of
    charge on our investor relations website under “SEC
    Filings” our Annual Reports on
    Form 10-K,
    Quarterly Reports on
    Form 10-Q,
    Current Reports on
    Form 8-K
    and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file or furnish such
    materials to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
    (“SEC”). Further, a copy of this annual report on
    Form 10-K
    is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F
    Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549.
    Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be
    obtained by calling the SEC at
    1-800-SEC-0330.
    The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy
    and information statements and other information regarding our
    filings at http://www.sec.gov.


 




    
    



    
    Item 1A.  

    
    Risk
    Factors





 



    We
    face significant competition from large-scale Internet content,
    product and service aggregators, principally Google, Microsoft
    and AOL.


 


    We face significant competition from companies, principally
    Google, Microsoft and AOL, that have aggregated a variety of
    Internet products, services and content in a manner similar to
    Yahoo!. Google’s Internet search service directly competes
    with us for affiliate and advertiser arrangements, both of which
    are key to our business and operating results. Additionally,
    Google offers many other services that directly compete with our
    services, including a consumer
    e-mail
    service, desktop search, local search, instant messaging,
    photos, maps, shopping services and advertising solutions.
    Microsoft has introduced its own Internet search service with
    paid search and may release features that may make Internet
    searching capabilities a more integrated part of its Windows
    operating system.  AOL has access to content from Time
    Warner’s movie, television, music, book, periodical, news,
    sports and other media holdings; access to a network of cable
    and other broadband users and delivery technologies; and
    considerable resources for future growth and expansion.  Some of
    the existing competitors and possible additional entrants may
    have greater operational, strategic, financial, personnel or
    other resources than we do, as well as greater brand recognition
    either overall or for certain products and services.  We expect
    these competitors increasingly to use their financial and
    engineering resources to compete with us, individually, and
    potentially in combination with each other.  In certain of these
    cases, most notably AOL, our competition has a direct billing
    relationship with a greater number of their users through
    Internet access and other services than we have with our users
    through our premium services.  This relationship may permit such
    competitors to be more effective than us in targeting services
    and advertisements to the specific preferences of their users
    thereby giving them a competitive advantage.  If our competitors
    are more successful than we are in developing compelling
    products or attracting and retaining users or advertisers, then
    our revenues and growth rates could decline.


 



    We
    also face competition from other Internet service companies,
    including Internet access providers, device manufacturers
    offering online services and destination websites.


 


    Our users must access our services through Internet access
    providers, including wireless providers and providers of cable
    and broadband Internet access.  To the extent that an access
    provider or device manufacturer offers online services
    competitive with those of Yahoo!, the user may elect to use the
    services or properties of that access provider or manufacturer.
    In addition, the access provider or manufacturer may make it
    difficult to access our services by not



    
    15



Table of Contents




    listing them in the access provider’s or
    manufacturer’s own directory or by providing Yahoo! with
    less prominent listings than the access provider, manufacturer,
    or a competitor’s offerings.  Such access providers and
    manufacturers may prove better able to target services and
    advertisements to the preferences of their users.  If such
    access providers and device manufacturers are more successful
    than we are in developing compelling products or attracting and
    retaining customers, users or advertisers, then our revenues
    could decline.  Further, to the extent that Internet access
    providers, mobile service providers or network providers
    increase the costs of service to users or restrict Yahoo!’s
    ability to deliver products, services and content to end users
    or increase our costs of doing so, our revenues could decline.


 


    We also compete for customers, users and advertisers with many
    other providers of online services, including destination
    websites and social media and networking sites.  Some of these
    competitors may have more expertise in a particular segment of
    the market, and within such segment, have longer operating
    histories, larger advertiser or user bases, and more brand
    recognition or technological features than we offer.


 


    In the future, competitors may acquire additional competitive
    offerings, and if we are unable to complete strategic
    acquisitions or investments, our business could become less
    competitive.  Further, competitors may consolidate with each
    other to become more competitive, and new competitors may enter
    the market.  If our competitors are more successful than we are
    in developing compelling products or attracting and retaining
    users, advertisers or customers, then our revenues and growth
    rates could decline.


 



    We
    face significant competition from traditional media companies
    which could adversely affect our future operating
    results.


 


    We also compete with traditional media companies for
    advertising.  Most advertisers currently spend only a small
    portion of their advertising budgets on Internet advertising.
    If we fail to persuade existing advertisers to retain and
    increase their spending with us and if we fail to persuade new
    advertisers to spend a portion of their budget on advertising
    with us, our revenues could decline and our future operating
    results could be adversely affected.


 



    If we
    are unable to provide search technologies and other services
    which generate significant traffic to our websites, or we are
    unable to enter into or continue distribution relationships that
    drive significant traffic to our websites, our business could be
    harmed, causing our revenues to decline.


 


    We have deployed our own Internet search technology to provide
    search results on our network.  We have more limited experience
    in operating our own search service than do some of our
    competitors.  Internet search is characterized by rapidly
    changing technology, significant competition, evolving industry
    standards and frequent product and service enhancements.  We
    must continually invest in improving our users’ experience,
    including search relevance, speed and services responsive to
    their needs and preferences, to continue to attract, retain and
    expand our user base.  If we are unable to provide search
    technologies and other services which generate significant
    traffic to our websites, or if we are unable to enter into
    distribution relationships that continue to drive significant
    traffic to our websites, our business could be harmed, causing
    our revenues to decline.


 



    The
    majority of our revenues are derived from marketing services,
    and the reduction in spending by or loss of current or potential
    advertisers would cause our revenues and operating results to
    decline.


 


    For the year ended December 31, 2006, 88 percent of
    our total revenues came from marketing services.  Our ability to
    continue to retain and grow marketing services revenue depends
    upon:


 




    
    



        • 

        maintaining our user base;



 


        • 

        maintaining our popularity as an Internet destination site;



 


        • 

        broadening our relationships with advertisers to small- and
    medium- sized businesses;



 


        • 

        attracting advertisers to our user base;



 


        • 

        increasing demand for our marketing services by advertisers,
    users, businesses and affiliates, including prices paid by
    advertisers, the number of searches performed by users, the rate
    at which users click-through to commercial search results and
    advertiser perception of the quality of leads generated by our
    marketing services;






    
    16



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        • 

        the successful implementation, and acceptance by advertisers and
    affiliates, of our systems improvements to increase monetization
    of our search marketing;



 


        • 

        the successful development and deployment of technology
    improvements to our marketing system;



 


        • 

        maintaining our affiliate program for our search marketing;



 


        • 

        deriving better demographic and other information from our
    users; and



 


        • 

        driving acceptance of the web in general and of Yahoo! in
    particular by advertisers as an advertising medium.





 


    In many cases, our agreements with advertisers have terms of one
    year or less, or, in the case of search marketing, may be
    terminated at any time by the advertiser.  Search marketing
    agreements often have payments dependent upon usage or
    click-through levels.  Accordingly, it is difficult to forecast
    marketing services revenues accurately.  However, our expense
    levels are based in part on expectations of future revenues,
    including occasional guaranteed minimum payments to our
    affiliates in connection with search and/or display advertising,
    and are fixed over the short-term with respect to certain
    categories.  Any reduction in spending by or loss of existing or
    potential future advertisers would cause our revenues to
    decline.  Further, we may be unable to adjust spending quickly
    enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall.


 



    In
    certain markets, we depend on a limited number of sources to
    direct a significant percentage of users and businesses to our
    service to conduct searches, and a loss of any of these sources
    could harm our operating results.


 


    A significant percentage of users and businesses that conduct
    searches and access our search marketing listings comes from a
    limited number of sources in certain markets.  In addition to
    the Yahoo! Properties, sources for users are members of our
    affiliate network, including portals, browsers and other
    affiliates.  Our agreements with affiliates vary in duration,
    and depending on the agreement, provide varying levels of
    discretion to the affiliate in the implementation of search
    marketing, including the degree to which affiliates can modify
    the presentation of the search marketing listings on their
    websites or integrate search marketing with their own services.
    The agreements may be terminable upon the occurrence of certain
    events, including failure to meet certain service levels,
    material breaches of agreement terms, changes in control or in
    some instances, at will.  We may not be successful in renewing
    our affiliate agreements on as favorable terms or at all.  The
    loss of affiliates providing significant users or businesses or
    an adverse change in implementation of search marketing by any
    of these affiliates could harm our ability to generate revenue,
    our operating results and cash flows from operations.


 



    We may
    not be able to generate substantial revenues from our alliances
    with Internet access providers.


 


    Through alliances with Internet access providers, we offer
    access services that combine customized content and services
    from Yahoo! (including browser and other communications
    services) and Internet access from third party access
    providers.  We may not be able to retain the alliances with our
    existing Internet access providers or to obtain new alliances
    with Internet access providers on terms that are reasonable.  In
    addition, these Internet access services compete with many large
    companies such as AOL, Microsoft, Comcast Corporation and other
    established Internet access providers.  In certain of these
    cases, our competition has substantially greater market presence
    (including an existing user base) and greater financial,
    technical, marketing or other resources.  As a result of these
    and other competitive factors, the Internet access providers
    with which we have formed alliances may not be able to attract,
    grow or retain their customer bases, which would negatively
    impact our ability to sell customized content and services
    through this channel and, in turn, reduce our anticipated
    revenues from our alliances.


 



    Some
    of our shared revenue arrangements may not generate anticipated
    revenues.


 


    We typically receive co-branded revenue through revenue sharing
    arrangements or a portion of transactions revenue.  In some
    cases, our revenue arrangements require that minimum levels of
    user impressions be provided by us.  These arrangements expose
    us to potentially significant financial risks in the event our
    usage levels decrease, including the following:


 




    
    



        • 
    
    the revenue we are entitled to receive may be adjusted downwards;






    
    17



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        • 

        we may be required to “make good” on our obligations
    by providing additional advertising or alternative services;



 


        • 

        the partners of co-brand services may not renew the arrangements
    or may renew at lower rates; and



 


        • 

        the arrangements may not generate anticipated levels of shared
    transactions revenue, or partners may default on the payment
    commitments in such agreements as has occurred in the past.





 


    Accordingly, any leveling off or decrease of our user base (or
    usage by our existing base) or the failure to generate
    anticipated levels of shared transactions revenue could result
    in a significant decrease in our revenues.


 



    Decreases
    or delays in advertising spending by our advertisers due to
    general economic conditions could harm our ability to generate
    advertising revenue.


 


    Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting
    overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns.
    Since we derive most of our revenues from advertising, any
    decreases in or delays in advertising spending due to general
    economic conditions could reduce our revenues or negatively
    impact our ability to grow our revenues.


 



    Financial
    results for any particular period do not predict results for
    future periods.


 


    There can be no assurance that the purchasing pattern of
    advertisers on the Yahoo! Properties will not fluctuate, that
    advertisers will not make smaller and shorter-term purchases, or
    that market prices for online advertising will not decrease due
    to competitive or other factors.  In addition, there can be no
    assurance that the volume of searches conducted, the amounts bid
    by advertisers for search marketing listings or the number of
    advertisers that bid in our search marketing marketplace will
    not vary widely from period to period.  As revenues from new
    sources increase, it may become more difficult to predict our
    financial results based on historical performance.  You should
    not rely on the results for any period as an indication of
    future performance.


 



    We
    estimate tax liabilities, the final determination of which is
    subject to review by domestic and international taxation
    authorities.


 


    We are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the
    United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we
    currently operate or have historically operated. We are also
    subject to review and audit by both domestic and foreign
    taxation authorities.  The determination of our worldwide
    provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets
    and liabilities requires judgment and estimation.  In the
    ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and
    calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
    Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the
    ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts
    recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may
    materially affect our income tax provision, net income or cash
    flows in the period or periods for which such determination is
    made.


 



    We
    rely on the value of our brands, and a failure to maintain or
    enhance the Yahoo! brands in a cost-effective manner could harm
    our operating results.


 


    We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands, including
    those that contain the Yahoo! name as well as those that do not,
    is an important aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our
    user and advertiser base.  We also believe that the importance
    of brand recognition will increase due to the relatively low
    barriers to entry in the Internet market.  We have spent
    considerable money and resources to date on the establishment
    and maintenance of our brands, and we anticipate spending
    increasing amounts of money on, and devoting greater resources
    to, advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts to
    preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands.  We may
    not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer
    awareness of our brands and, even if we are successful in our
    branding efforts, these efforts may not be cost-effective.  If
    we are unable to maintain or enhance customer awareness of our
    brands in a cost-effective manner, our business, operating
    results and financial condition could be harmed.



    
    18



Table of Contents



 



    If we
    are unable to license or acquire compelling content at
    reasonable costs or if we do not develop or commission
    compelling content of our own, the number of users of our
    services may not grow as anticipated, or may decline, or
    users’ level of engagement with our services may decline,
    all or any of which could harm our operating
    results.


 


    Our future success depends in part upon our ability to aggregate
    compelling content and deliver that content through our online
    properties.  We license much of the content on our online
    properties, such as news items, stock quotes, weather reports,
    maps and audio and video content from third parties.  We have
    been providing increasing amounts of audio and video content to
    our users, and we believe that users will increasingly demand
    high-quality audio and video content, such as music, film,
    speeches, news footage, concerts and other special events.  Such
    content may require us to make substantial payments to third
    parties from whom we license or acquire such content.  For
    example, our music and entertainment properties rely on major
    sports organizations, radio and television stations, record
    labels, music publishers, cable networks, businesses, colleges
    and universities, film producers and distributors, and other
    organizations for a large portion of the content available on
    our properties.  Our ability to maintain and build relationships
    with third-party content providers will be critical to our
    success. In addition, as new methods for accessing the Internet
    become available, including through alternative devices, we may
    need to enter into amended content agreements with existing
    third-party content providers to cover the new devices.  Also,
    to the extent that Yahoo! develops content of its own,
    Yahoo!’s current and potential third-party content
    providers may view our services as competitive with their own,
    and this may adversely affect their willingness to contract with
    us.  We may be unable to enter into new, or preserve existing,
    relationships with the third parties whose content we seek to
    obtain.  In addition, as competition for compelling content
    increases both domestically and internationally, our content
    providers may increase the prices at which they offer their
    content to us, and potential content providers may not offer
    their content to us or offer it on terms agreeable to us.  An
    increase in the prices charged to us by third-party content
    providers could harm our operating results and financial
    condition.  Further, many of our content licenses with third
    parties are non-exclusive. Accordingly, other webcasters and
    other media such as radio or television may be able to offer
    similar or identical content. This increases the importance of
    our ability to deliver compelling editorial content and
    personalization of this content for users in order to
    differentiate Yahoo! from other businesses.  If we are unable to
    license or acquire compelling content at reasonable prices, if
    other companies broadcast content that is similar to or the same
    as that provided by Yahoo!, or if we do not develop compelling
    editorial content or personalization services, the number of
    users of our services may not grow as anticipated, or may
    decline, which could harm our operating results.


 



    Our
    intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to
    protect them could reduce the value of our brand image and harm
    our business and our operating results.


 


    We create, own and maintain a wide array of intellectual
    property assets, including copyrights, patents, trademarks,
    trade dress, trade secrets and rights to certain domain names,
    which we believe are among our most valuable assets.  We seek to
    protect our intellectual property assets through patent,
    copyright, trade secret, trademark and other laws of the United
    States and other countries of the world, and through contractual
    provisions.  The efforts we have taken to protect our
    intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be
    sufficient or effective at stopping unauthorized use of those
    rights.  In addition, effective trademark, patent, copyright and
    trade secret protection may not be available or cost-effective
    in every country in which our products and media properties are
    distributed or made available through the Internet.  There may
    be instances where we are not able to fully protect or utilize
    our intellectual property assets in a manner to maximize
    competitive advantages. Further, while we attempt to ensure that
    the quality of our brand is maintained by our licensees, our
    licensees may take actions that could impair the value of our
    brand, our proprietary rights or the reputation of our products
    and media properties.  We are aware that third parties have,
    from time to time, copied significant content available on
    Yahoo! for use in competitive Internet services.  Protection of
    the distinctive elements of Yahoo! may not be available under
    copyright law or trademark law.  If we are unable to protect our
    proprietary rights from unauthorized use, the value of our brand
    image may be reduced.  Any impairment of our brand could
    negatively impact our business.  In addition, protecting our
    intellectual property and other proprietary rights is expensive
    and time consuming.  Any increase in the unauthorized use of our
    intellectual property could make it more expensive to do
    business and consequently harm our operating results.



    
    19



Table of Contents



 



    We
    are, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property
    infringement claims, which are costly to defend, could result in
    significant damage awards, and could limit our ability to
    provide certain content or use certain technologies in the
    future.


 


    Internet, technology, media companies and patent holding
    companies often possess a significant number of patents.
    Further, many of these companies and other parties are actively
    developing or purchasing search, indexing, electronic commerce
    and other Internet-related technologies, as well as a variety of
    online business models and methods.  We believe that these
    parties will continue to take steps to protect these
    technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent
    protection.  As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of
    technologies and rights associated with online business are
    likely to continue to arise in the future.  From time to time,
    parties assert patent infringement claims against us.
    Currently, we are engaged in several lawsuits regarding patent
    issues and have been notified of a number of other potential
    disputes.


 


    In addition to patent claims, third parties have asserted, and
    are likely in the future to assert, claims against us alleging
    infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret
    rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair
    competition or violations of privacy rights or failure to
    maintain confidentiality of user data.  Currently, our
    subsidiary LAUNCH Media, Inc. (“LAUNCH”) is engaged in
    a lawsuit regarding copyright issues that commenced prior to our
    acquisition of LAUNCH. In addition, third parties have made, and
    may continue to make, trademark infringement and related claims
    against us over the display of search results triggered by
    search terms that include trademark terms.


 


    As we expand our business and develop new technologies, products
    and services, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual
    property infringement claims.  In the event that there is a
    determination that we have infringed third-party proprietary
    rights such as patents, copyrights, trademark rights, trade
    secret rights or other third party rights such as publicity and
    privacy rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability,
    be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements
    or be prevented from using the rights, which could require us to
    change our business practices in the future and limit our
    ability to compete effectively.  We may also incur substantial
    expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims
    regardless of the merit of such claims.  In addition, many of
    our agreements with our customers or affiliates require us to
    indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property
    infringement claims, which could increase our costs in defending
    such claims and our damages.  The occurrence of any of these
    results could harm our brand and negatively impact our operating
    results.


 



    We are
    subject to United States and foreign government regulation of
    Internet, mobile, and Voice over Internet Protocol services
    which could subject us to claims and remedies including monetary
    liabilities and limitations on our business
    practices.


 


    We are subject to regulations and laws directly applicable to
    providers of Internet, mobile, and Voice over Internet Protocol
    services both domestically and internationally.  The application
    of existing domestic and international laws and regulations to
    Yahoo! relating to issues such as user privacy and data
    protection, defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation,
    gambling, sweepstakes, promotions, billing, real estate,
    consumer protection, content regulation, quality of services,
    telecommunications, mobile and intellectual property ownership
    and infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled.  In
    addition, we will also be subject to any new laws and
    regulations directly applicable to our domestic and
    international activities.  Further, the application of existing
    laws to Yahoo! or our subsidiaries regulating or requiring
    licenses for certain businesses of our advertisers including,
    for example, distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, adult
    content, tobacco or firearms, as well as insurance and
    securities brokerage and legal services, can be unclear.
    Internationally, we may also be subject to domestic laws
    regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign
    laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to
    country.  We may incur substantial liabilities for expenses
    necessary to comply with these laws and regulations or penalties
    for any failure to comply.  Compliance with these laws and
    regulations may also cause us to change or limit our business
    practices in a manner adverse to our business.


 


    A number of U.S. federal laws, including those referenced
    below, impact our business.  The Digital Millennium Copyright
    Act (“DMCA”) is intended, in part, to limit the
    liability of eligible online service providers for listing or
    linking to third-party websites that include materials that
    infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the
    Communications Decency Act (“CDA”) are intended to
    provide statutory protections to online service providers



    
    20



Table of Contents




    who distribute third party content.  Yahoo! relies on the
    protections provided by both the DMCA and CDA in conducting its
    business.  Any changes in these laws or judicial interpretations
    narrowing their protections will subject us to greater risk of
    liability and may increase our costs of compliance with these
    regulations or limit our ability to operate certain lines of
    business.  The Children’s Online Protection Act and the
    Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act are intended to
    restrict the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to
    children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of
    online services to collect user information from minors.  In
    addition, the Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act
    of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of
    violations of federal child pornography laws under certain
    circumstances.  The costs of compliance with these regulations
    may increase in the future as a result of changes in the
    regulations or the interpretation of them.  Further, any
    failures on our part to comply with these regulations may
    subject us to significant liabilities.


 



    Changes
    in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection
    of user data could adversely affect our business.


 


    Federal, state, foreign and international laws and regulations
    may govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security
    of data that we receive from our users and partners.  In
    addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy
    policies and practices concerning the collection, use and
    disclosure of user data.  Any failure, or perceived failure, by
    us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any
    data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission
    requirements or other federal, state or international
    privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings
    or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which
    could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.


 


    Further, failure or perceived failure to comply with our
    policies or applicable requirements related to the collection,
    use, sharing or security of personal information or other
    privacy-related matters could result in a loss of user
    confidence in us, damage to the Yahoo! brands, and ultimately in
    a loss of users, partners or advertisers, which could adversely
    affect our business.


 


    A large number of legislative proposals pending before the
    United States Congress, various state legislative bodies and
    foreign governments concern data privacy and retention issues
    related to our business.  It is not possible to predict whether
    or when such legislation may be adopted.  Certain proposals, if
    adopted, could impose requirements that may result in a decrease
    in our user registrations and revenues.  In addition, the
    interpretation and application of user data protection laws are
    in a state of flux.  These laws may be interpreted and applied
    inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with
    our current data protection policies and practices.  Complying
    with these varying international requirements could cause us to
    incur substantial costs or require us to change our business
    practices in a manner adverse to our business.


 



    Acquisitions
    and strategic investments could result in adverse impacts on our
    operations and in unanticipated liabilities.


 


    We have acquired, and have made strategic investments in, a
    number of companies (including through joint ventures) in the
    past and expect to make additional acquisitions and strategic
    investments in the future.  Such transactions may result in
    dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash
    resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses
    related to intangible assets.  Our acquisitions and strategic
    investments to date were accompanied by a number of risks,
    including:


 




    
    



        • 

        the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of
    our acquired companies into our operations;



 


        • 

        the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction
    of management;



 


        • 

        additional operating losses and expenses of the businesses we
    acquired or in which we invested;



 


        • 

        the difficulty of integrating acquired technology and rights
    into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such
    integration;



 


        • 

        the failure to successfully further develop acquired technology
    resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as
    intangible assets;



 


        • 

        the potential for patent and trademark infringement claims
    against the acquired company;






    
    21



Table of Contents



 




    
    



        • 

        the impairment of relationships with customers and partners of
    the companies we acquired or in which we invested or our
    customers and partners as a result of the integration of
    acquired operations;



 


        • 

        the impairment of relationships with employees of the acquired
    companies or our employees as a result of integration of new
    management personnel;



 


        • 

        the difficulty of integrating the acquired company’s
    accounting, management information, human resources and other
    administrative systems;



 


        • 

        our lack of, or limitations on, our control over the operations
    of our joint venture companies;



 


        • 

        in the case of foreign acquisitions, uncertainty regarding
    foreign laws and regulations and difficulty integrating
    operations and systems as a result of cultural, systems and
    operational differences; and



 


        • 

        the impact of known potential liabilities or unknown liabilities
    associated with the companies we acquired or in which we
    invested.





 


    We are likely to experience similar risks in connection with our
    future acquisitions and strategic investments.  Our failure to
    be successful in addressing these risks or other problems
    encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions
    and strategic investments could cause us to fail to realize the
    anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur
    unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally.


 



    Our
    failure to manage growth, diversification and changes to our
    business could harm us.


 


    We are continuing to grow, diversify and evolve our business
    both in the United States and internationally.  As a result of
    the diversification of our business, personnel growth,
    acquisitions and international expansion in the recent years,
    more than one-half of our employees are now based outside of our
    Sunnyvale, California headquarters.  If we are unable to
    effectively manage a large and geographically dispersed group of
    employees or to anticipate our future growth and personnel
    needs, our business may be adversely affected.


 


    As we grow and diversify our business, we must also expand and
    adapt our operational infrastructure.  Our business relies on
    our data systems, billing systems for our fee-based services,
    and other operational and financial reporting and control
    systems.  All of these systems have become increasingly complex
    in the recent past due to the growing diversification and
    complexity of our business, to acquisitions of new businesses
    with different systems and to increased regulation over controls
    and procedures.  To effectively manage our technical support
    infrastructure, we will need to continue to upgrade and improve
    our data systems, billing systems, and other operational and
    financial systems, procedures and controls.  In particular, as
    our fee-based services for which we bill users grow, any failure
    of our billing systems to accommodate the increasing number of
    transactions and accurately bill users could adversely affect
    our business and ability to collect revenue.  These upgrades and
    improvements will require a dedication of resources and in some
    cases are likely to be complex.  If we are unable to adapt our
    systems in a timely manner to accommodate our growth, our
    business may be adversely affected.


 


    To better and more efficiently manage our business, we recently
    announced, and are currently implementing, a reorganization of
    our structure and management to align our operations with our
    key customer groups — audiences and advertisers.
    Implementing the reorganization requires significant time and
    resource commitments from our senior management.  In the event
    that we are unable to effectively implement the reorganization,
    we are unable to recruit or retain key employees as a result of
    the reorganization or the reorganization does not yield the
    anticipated benefits, our business may be adversely affected.


 



    We
    have dedicated considerable resources to provide a variety of
    premium services, which may not prove to be successful in
    generating significant revenue for us.


 


    We offer fee-based enhancements to many of our free services,
    including
    e-mail,
    personals, finance, games, music and sports.  The development
    cycles for these technologies are long and generally require
    significant investment by us.  We have and will continue to
    invest in new products and services.  Some of these new products
    and services may not be profitable or may not meet anticipated
    user adoption rates.  We have previously discontinued certain
    non-profitable premium services and may discontinue others.  We
    must however continue to provide new services that are
    compelling to our users while continuing to develop an effective
    method for generating revenues for such



    
    22



Table of Contents




    services.  General economic conditions as well as the rapidly
    evolving competitive landscape may affect users’
    willingness to pay for such services.  If we cannot generate
    revenues from these services that are greater than the cost of
    providing such services, our operating results could be harmed.


 



    We
    expect our operating expenses to continue to increase as we
    attempt to expand the Yahoo! brand, fund product development,
    develop media properties and acquire other businesses or
    technologies, which could harm our operating
    results.


 


    We currently expect that our operating expenses will continue to
    increase as we expand our operations in areas of expected
    growth, continue to develop and extend the Yahoo! brand, fund
    greater levels of product development, develop and commercialize
    additional media properties and premium services, and acquire
    and integrate complementary businesses and technologies.  If our
    expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, our
    operating results could be harmed.


 



    If we
    are unable to retain our existing senior management and key
    personnel and hire new highly skilled personnel, we may not be
    able to execute our business plan.


 


    We are substantially dependent on the continued services of our
    senior management, including our two founders, our chief
    executive officer, chief financial officer, chief technical
    officer, and our executive and senior vice presidents.  These
    individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with
    respect to Yahoo! and its operations.  The loss of any of these
    individuals could harm our business.  Our business is also
    dependent on our ability to retain, hire and motivate talented,
    highly skilled personnel.  The competition for such executives
    and for other highly skilled personnel can be intense,
    particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our
    corporate headquarters, and the headquarters of several of our
    vertical and horizontal competitors, are located.  If we do not
    succeed in recruiting, retaining and motivating our key
    employees and in attracting new key personnel, we may be unable
    to meet our business plan and as a result, our stock price may
    decline.


 



    More
    individuals are utilizing non-PC devices to access the Internet,
    and versions of our service developed or optimized for these
    devices may not gain widespread adoption by users, manufacturers
    or distributors of such devices.


 


    The number of individuals who access the Internet through
    devices other than a personal computer, such as personal digital
    assistants, mobile telephones, televisions and set-top box
    devices, has increased dramatically, and the trend is likely to
    continue.  Our services were originally designed for rich,
    graphical environments such as those available on desktop and
    laptop computers.  The lower resolution, functionality and
    memory associated with alternative devices currently available
    may make the use of our services through such devices difficult,
    and the versions of our service developed for these devices may
    not be compelling to users, manufacturers or distributors of
    alternative devices.  As we have limited experience to date in
    operating versions of our service developed or optimized for
    users of alternative devices, and as new devices and new
    platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to
    predict the problems we may encounter in doing so, and we may
    need to devote significant resources to the creation, support
    and maintenance of such versions.  If we are unable to attract
    and retain a substantial number of alternative device
    manufacturers, distributors and users to our online services, we
    may fail to capture a sufficient share of an increasingly
    important portion of the market for online services and may fail
    to attract both advertisers and premium service subscribers.


 



    We
    plan to expand operations in international markets in which we
    may have limited experience or rely on business
    partners.


 


    We plan to expand Yahoo! branded online properties and search
    offerings in international markets.  We have currently
    developed, through joint ventures, strategic investments,
    subsidiaries and branch offices, localized offerings in over 20
    countries outside of the United States.  As we expand into new
    international markets, we will have only limited experience in
    marketing and operating our products and services in such
    markets.  In other instances, including our strategic investment
    in Alibaba, we may rely on the efforts and abilities of foreign
    business partners in such markets.  Certain international
    markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting the



    
    23



Table of Contents




    Internet as an advertising and commerce medium and so our
    operations in international markets may not develop at a rate
    that supports our level of investment.


 



    In
    international markets we compete with local Internet service
    providers that may have competitive advantages.


 


    In a number of international markets, especially those in Asia,
    Europe and Latin America, we face substantial competition from
    local Internet service providers and other portals that offer
    search, communications and other commercial services.  Many of
    these companies have a dominant market share in their
    territories and are owned by local telecommunications providers
    which give them a competitive advantage.  Local providers of
    competing online services may also have a substantial advantage
    over us in attracting users in their country due to more
    established branding in that country, greater knowledge with
    respect to the tastes and preferences of users residing in that
    country
    and/or their
    focus on a single market.  Further, the local providers may have
    greater regulatory and operational flexibility than Yahoo! due
    to the fact that we are subject to both United States and
    foreign regulatory requirements.  We must continue to improve
    our local offerings, become more knowledgeable about our local
    users and their preferences, deepen our relationships with our
    local users as well as increase our branding and other marketing
    activities in order to remain competitive and strengthen our
    international market position.


 



    Our
    international operations are subject to increased risks which
    could harm our business, operating results and financial
    condition.


 


    In addition to uncertainty about our ability to continue to
    generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand our
    international market position, there are certain risks inherent
    in doing business internationally, including:


 




    
    



        • 

        trade barriers and changes in trade regulations;



 


        • 

        difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing
    a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of
    distance, language and cultural differences;



 


        • 

        stringent local labor laws and regulations;



 


        • 

        longer payment cycles;



 


        • 

        currency exchange rate fluctuations;



 


        • 

        political or social unrest or economic instability;



 


        • 

        import or export restrictions;



 


        • 

        seasonal volatility in business activity;



 


        • 

        risks related to government regulation or required compliance
    with local laws in certain jurisdictions, including those more
    fully described above; and



 


        • 

        potentially adverse tax consequences.





 


    One or more of these factors could harm our future international
    operations and consequently, could harm our brand, business,
    operating results and financial condition.


 



    We may
    be subject to legal liability for online services.


 


    We host a wide variety of services that enable individuals and
    businesses to exchange information, generate content, advertise
    products and services, conduct business and engage in various
    online activities on an international basis.  The law relating
    to the liability of providers of these online services for
    activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the
    United States and internationally.  Claims have been threatened
    and have been brought against us for defamation, negligence,
    copyright or trademark infringement, unlawful activity, tort,
    including personal injury, fraud, or other theories based on the
    nature and content of information that we provide links to or
    that may be posted online or generated by our users or with
    respect to auctioned materials.  In addition, Yahoo! was the
    subject of a claim brought by certain entities in a French court
    regarding, among other things, the availability of certain
    content within our services which was alleged to violate French
    law. We may be subject to similar actions in domestic or



    
    24



Table of Contents




    other international jurisdictions in the future.  Our defense of
    any such actions could be costly and involve significant time
    and attention of our management and other resources.


 


    We also periodically enter into arrangements to offer
    third-party products, services or content under the Yahoo! brand
    or via distribution on the Yahoo! Properties, including stock
    quotes and trading information.  We may be subject to claims
    concerning these products, services or content by virtue of our
    involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing
    access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate,
    provide, or provide access to these products, services or
    content. While our agreements with respect to these products,
    services and content, often provide that we will be indemnified
    against such liabilities, the ability to receive such
    indemnification depends on the financial resources of the other
    party to the agreement and any amounts received may not be
    adequate to cover our liabilities.


 


    It is also possible that, if any information provided directly
    by us contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to
    users, third parties could make claims against us.  For example,
    we offer web-based
    e-mail
    services, which expose us to potential risks, such as
    liabilities or claims resulting from unsolicited
    e-mail, lost
    or misdirected messages, illegal or fraudulent use of
    e-mail, or
    interruptions or delays in
    e-mail
    service.  Investigating and defending any of these types of
    claims is expensive, even to the extent that the claims are
    without merit or do not ultimately result in liability.


 



    We may
    have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing technology
    architecture to accommodate increased traffic and technology
    advances or requirements of our users and
    advertisers.


 


    As one of the most highly trafficked websites on the Internet,
    Yahoo! delivers a growing number of products, services and page
    views to an increasing number of users around the world.  In
    addition, the products and services offered by Yahoo! have
    expanded and changed significantly and are expected to continue
    to expand and change rapidly in the future to accommodate new
    technologies and new means of content delivery, such as rich
    media audio and video.  Our future success will depend on our
    ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our
    products and services to evolving industry standards and to
    improve the performance and reliability of our products and
    services.  Rapid increases in the levels or types of use of our
    online properties and services could result in delays or
    interruptions in our service.


 


    Widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or
    telecommunications technologies or other technological changes
    could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our
    services or infrastructure.  The technology architectures
    utilized for our services are highly complex and may not provide
    satisfactory support in the future, as usage increases and
    products and services expand, change and become more complex.
    In the future, we may make changes to our architectures and
    systems, including moving to completely new architectures and
    systems.  Such changes may be technologically challenging to
    develop and implement, may take time to test and deploy, may
    cause us to incur substantial costs or data loss, and may cause
    users, advertisers, and affiliates to experience delays or
    interruptions in our service.  These changes, delays or
    interruptions in our service may cause users, advertisers and
    affiliates to become dissatisfied with our service and move to
    competing providers of online services.  Further, to the extent
    that demands for our services increase, we will need to expand
    our infrastructure, including the capacity of our hardware
    servers and the sophistication of our software.  This expansion
    is likely to be expensive and complex and require additional
    technical expertise.  As we acquire users who rely upon us for a
    wide variety of services, it becomes more technologically
    complex and costly to retrieve, store and integrate data that
    will enable us to track each user’s preferences.  Any
    difficulties experienced in adapting our architectures and
    infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic, to store user
    data and track user preferences, together with the associated
    costs and potential loss of traffic, could harm our operating
    results, cash flows from operations and financial condition.


 



    Our
    business depends on the continued growth and maintenance of the
    Internet infrastructure.


 


    The success and the availability of our Internet-based products
    and services depends in part upon the continued growth and
    maintenance of the Internet infrastructure itself, including its
    protocols, architecture, network backbone, data capacity and
    security.  Spam, viruses, worms, spyware, denial of service
    attacks and other acts of malice may affect not only the
    Internet’s speed, reliability and availability but also its
    continued desirability as a vehicle for commerce, information
    and user engagement.  If the Internet proves unable to meet the
    new threats and increased



    
    25



Table of Contents




    demands placed upon it, our business plans, user and advertiser
    relationships, site traffic and revenues could be adversely
    affected.


 



    New
    technologies could block our advertisements or our search
    marketing listings, which would harm our operating
    results.


 


    Technologies have been developed and are likely to continue to
    be developed that can block the display of our advertisements or
    our search marketing listings.  Most of our revenues are derived
    from fees paid to us by advertisers in connection with the
    display of advertisements or our search marketing listings on
    web pages.  As a result, advertisement-blocking technology could
    reduce the number of advertisements and search results that we
    are able to deliver and, in turn, our advertising revenues and
    operating results.


 



    We
    rely on third party providers for our principal Internet
    connections and technologies, databases and services critical to
    our properties and services, and any errors, failures or
    disruption in the services provided by these third parties could
    significantly harm our business and operating
    results.


 


    We rely on private third-party providers for our principal
    Internet connections, co-location of a significant portion of
    our data servers and network access.  Any disruption, from
    natural disasters, technology malfunctions, sabotage or other
    factors, in the Internet or network access or co-location
    services provided by these third-party providers or any failure
    of these third-party providers to handle current or higher
    volumes of use could significantly harm our business, operating
    results and financial condition.  We have little control over
    these third-party providers, which increases our vulnerability
    to disruptions or problems with their services.  Any financial
    difficulties experienced by our providers may have negative
    effects on our business, the nature and extent of which we
    cannot predict.  We license technology and related databases
    from third parties for certain elements of our properties,
    including, among others, technology underlying the delivery of
    news, stock quotes and current financial information, chat
    services, street mapping and telephone listings, streaming
    capabilities and similar services.  We have experienced and
    expect to continue to experience interruptions and delays in
    service and availability for such elements.  We also rely on a
    third-party provider for key components of our
    e-mail
    service.  Furthermore, we depend on hardware and software
    suppliers for prompt delivery, installation and service of
    servers and other equipment to deliver our services.  Any
    errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in
    connection with these third-party technologies and information
    services could negatively impact our relationship with users and
    adversely affect our brand, our business and operating results.


 



    We
    rely on distribution agreements and relationships with various
    third parties, and any failure to obtain or maintain such
    distribution relationships on reasonable terms could impair our
    ability to fully execute our business plan.


 


    In addition to our relationships with Internet access providers,
    to increase traffic for our offerings and make them more
    available and attractive to advertisers and users, we have
    certain distribution agreements and informal relationships with
    operators of online networks and leading websites, software
    companies, electronics companies, and computer manufacturers.
    Depending on the distributor and the agreement, these
    distribution arrangements may not be exclusive and may only have
    a short term.  Some of our distributors, particularly
    distributors who are also competitors or potential competitors,
    may not renew their distribution agreements with us.  In
    addition, as new methods for accessing the Internet become
    available, including through alternative devices, we may need to
    enter into amended distributions agreements with existing
    distributors to cover the new devices and agreements with
    additional distributors.  In the future, existing and potential
    distributors may not offer distribution of our properties and
    services to us on reasonable terms, or at all.  If we fail to
    obtain distribution or to obtain distribution on terms that are
    reasonable, we may not be able to fully execute our business
    plan.


 



    We
    rely on third party providers of rich media products to provide
    the technologies required to deliver rich media content to our
    users, and any change in the licensing terms, costs,
    availability or user acceptance of these products could
    adversely affect our business.


 


    We rely on leading providers of streaming media products to
    license the software necessary to deliver rich media content to
    our users.  There can be no assurance that these providers will
    continue to license these products to us on



    
    26



Table of Contents




    reasonable terms, or at all.  Our users are currently able to
    electronically download copies of the software to play rich
    media free of charge, but providers of rich media products may
    begin charging users for copies of their player software or
    otherwise change their business model in a manner that slows the
    widespread acceptance of these products.  In order for our rich
    media services to be successful, there must be a large base of
    users of these rich media products.  We have limited or no
    control over the availability or acceptance of rich media
    software, and to the extent that any of these circumstances
    occur, our business may be adversely affected.


 



    If we
    fail to prevent click fraud or if we choose to manage
    undesirable clicks in a way that advertisers find
    unsatisfactory, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers
    as well as face potential litigation, which could adversely
    impact our business and profitability.


 


    We are exposed to the risk of click fraud or other clicks that
    advertisers may perceive as undesirable.  If fraudulent activity
    occurs and we are unable to detect and prevent it, or if we
    choose to manage undesirable clicks in a way that advertisers
    find unsatisfactory, the affected advertisers may experience or
    perceive a reduced return on their investment in our advertising
    programs which could lead the advertisers to become dissatisfied
    with our advertising programs.  This could damage our brand and
    lead to a loss of advertisers and revenue.  Advertiser
    dissatisfaction has led to litigation alleging click fraud and
    could potentially lead to further litigation.  We may also issue
    refunds or credits as a result of such activity.  Any increase
    in costs due to any such litigation, refunds or credits could
    negatively impact our profitability.


 



    Interruptions,
    delays or failures in the provision of our services could damage
    our brand and harm our operating results.


 


    Our operations are susceptible to outages and interruptions due
    to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, cyber
    attacks, terrorist attacks and similar events.  In addition, a
    significant portion of our network infrastructure is located in
    Northern California, an area subject to earthquakes.  Despite
    our implementation of network security measures, our servers are
    vulnerable to computer viruses, worms, physical and electronic
    break-ins, sabotage and similar disruptions from unauthorized
    tampering with our computer systems.  For example, we are
    vulnerable to coordinated attempts to overload our systems with
    data, resulting in denial or reduction of service to some or all
    of our users for a period of time.  We have experienced a
    coordinated denial of service attack in the past, and may
    experience such attempts in the future.  We do not have multiple
    site capacity for all of our services and some of our systems
    are not fully redundant in the event of any such occurrence.  In
    an effort to reduce the likelihood of a geographical or other
    disaster impacting our business, we have distributed and intend
    to continue distributing our servers among additional data
    centers located around the world.  Failure to execute these
    changes properly or in a timely manner could result in delays or
    interruptions to our service, which could result in a loss of
    users and damage to our brand, and harm our operating results.
    We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to
    compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any
    events, which cause interruptions in our service.


 



    We may
    be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our
    goodwill, amortizable intangible assets or investments in equity
    interests become impaired.


 


    We are required under generally accepted accounting principles
    to review our amortizable intangible assets and investments in
    equity interests for impairment when events or changes in
    circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be
    recoverable.  Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment
    at least annually.  Factors that may be considered a change in
    circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our
    amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a
    decline in stock price and market capitalization, and slower
    growth rates in our industry.  Factors that may be considered a
    change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of an
    investment in equity interest may not be recoverable include a
    decline in the stock price of an equity investee that is a
    public company or a decline in the operating performance of an
    equity investee. We may be required to record a significant
    charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements
    during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill,
    amortizable intangible assets or investments in equity interests
    is determined.  This would adversely impact our results of
    operations.



    
    27



Table of Contents



 



    Our
    stock price has been volatile historically and may continue to
    be volatile regardless of our operating
    performance.


 


    The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue
    to be subject to wide fluctuations.  During the year ended
    December 31, 2006, the closing sale prices of our common
    stock on the Nasdaq ranged from $22.99 to $43.42 per share
    and the closing sale price on February 15, 2007 was
    $31.25 per share.  Our stock price may fluctuate in
    response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly
    variations in operating results; announcements and
    implementations of technological innovations or new services,
    upgrades and media properties by us or our competitors; changes
    in financial estimates and recommendations by securities
    analysts; the operating and stock price performance of other
    companies that investors may deem comparable to us; the
    operating performance of companies in which we have an equity
    investment, including Yahoo! Japan and Alibaba; and news reports
    relating to trends in our markets or general economic conditions.


 


    In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices
    for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced
    volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating
    performance of such companies.  These broad market and industry
    fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock,
    regardless of our operating performance.  Additionally,
    volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price
    may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of
    whom have been granted stock options or other stock-based awards.


 



    Anti-takeover
    provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to
    acquire us.


 


    We have adopted a stockholder rights plan and initially declared
    a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding share
    of common stock to stockholders of record as of March 20,
    2001. As a result of our
    two-for-one
    stock split effective May 11, 2004, each share of common
    stock is now associated with one-half of one right.  Each right
    entitles the holder to purchase one unit consisting of one
    one-thousandth of a share of our Series A Junior
    Participating Preferred Stock for $250 per unit.  Under
    certain circumstances, if a person or group acquires
    15 percent or more of our outstanding common stock, holders
    of the rights (other than the person or group triggering their
    exercise) will be able to purchase, in exchange for the $250
    exercise price, shares of our common stock or of any company
    into which we are merged having a value of $500. The rights
    expire on March 1, 2011, unless extended by our Board of
    Directors.  Because the rights may substantially dilute the
    stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over
    without the approval of our Board of Directors, our rights plan
    could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (or
    a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock)
    without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding
    that acquisition.


 


    In addition, our Board of Directors has the authority to issue
    up to 10 million shares of Preferred Stock (of which
    2 million shares have been designated as Series A
    Junior Participating Preferred Stock) and to determine the
    price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions,
    including voting rights, of those shares without any further
    vote or action by the stockholders.


 


    The rights of the holders of our common stock may be subject to,
    and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of
    any Preferred Stock that may be issued in the future.  The
    issuance of Preferred Stock may have the effect of delaying,
    deterring or preventing a change of control of Yahoo! without
    further action by the stockholders and may adversely affect the
    voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock.
    Further, certain provisions of our charter documents, including
    provisions eliminating the ability of stockholders to take
    action by written consent and limiting the ability of
    stockholders to raise matters at a meeting of stockholders
    without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying
    or preventing changes in control or management of Yahoo!, which
    could have an adverse effect on the market price of our stock.
    In addition, our charter documents do not permit cumulative
    voting, which may make it more difficult for a third party to
    gain control of our Board of Directors.  Further, we are subject
    to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the
    Delaware General Corporation Law, which will prohibit us from
    engaging in a “business combination” with an
    “interested stockholder” for a period of three years
    after the date of the transaction in which the person became an
    interested stockholder, even if such combination is favored by a
    majority of stockholders, unless the business combination is
    approved in a prescribed manner.  The application of
    Section 203 also could have the effect of delaying or
    preventing a change of control or management.



    
    28



Table of Contents



 




    
    



    
    Item 1B